
     ----CITATION---- 
        Dreiser, Theodore, 1871-1945. A Hoosier Holiday: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2443
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
                A HOOSIER HOLIDAY
                
            
            
            
                BY THEODORE DREISER
                THE "GENIUS"
                SISTER CARRIE
                JENNIE GERHARDT
                A TRAVELER AT FORTY
                PLAYS OF THE NATURAL AND THE SUPERNATURAL
                THE FINANCIER
                THE TITAN
                A TRILOGY OF DESIRE
            
            
            
                
                    THE WARSAW HOME The Mecca of this trip
                        Frontispiece
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    A HOOSIER HOLIDAY
                
                BY
                    THEODORE DREISER
                
                WITH ILLVSTRATIONS BY FRANKLIN BOOTH.
                
                    NEW YORK:
                    John Lane Company
                    LONDON:
                    JOHN LANE
                    THE BODLEY HEAD
                    MCMXVI
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1916, BY JOHN LANE COMPANY
                Press of J. J. Little & Ives Company New York,
                    U.S.A.
            
            
            
                TO MY MOTHER
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. THE ROSE WINDOW
                        13
                        
                    
                    II. THE SCENIC ROUTE
                        20
                        
                    
                    III. ACROSS the MEADOWS to the PASSAIC
                        24
                        
                    
                    IV. THE PIETY and EGGS
                            of PATERSON
                        29
                        
                    
                    V. ACROSS the DELAWARE
                        35
                        
                    
                    VI. AN AMERICAN SUMMER RESORT
                        42
                        
                    
                    VII. THE PENNSYLVANIANS
                        50
                        
                    
                    VIII. BEAUTIFUL WILKES-BARRE
                        58
                        
                    
                    IX. IN and OUT of SCRANTON
                        65
                        
                    
                    X. A LITTLE AMERICAN TOWN
                        75
                        
                    
                    XI. THE MAGIC of the ROAD and SOME TALES
                        81
                        
                    
                    XII. RAILROADS and a NEW WONDER of the WORLD
                        92
                        
                    
                    XIII. A COUNTRY HOTEL
                        98
                        
                    
                    XIV. THE CITY of SWAMP ROOT
                        107
                        
                    
                    XV. A RIDE by NIGHT
                        116
                        
                    
                    XVI. CHEMUNG
                        123
                        
                    
                    XVII. CHICKEN and WAFFLES and the
                            TOON O' BATH
                        131
                        
                    
                    XVIII. MR. HUBBARD and an AUTOMOBILE FLIRTATION
                        141
                        
                    
                    XIX. THE REV. J. CADDEN MCMILCKENS
                        150
                        
                    
                    XX. THE CAPITAL of the FRA
                        159
                        
                    
                    XXI. BUFFALO OLD and NEW
                        169
                        
                    
                    XXII. ALONG the ERIE SHORE
                        176
                        
                    
                    XXIII. THE APPROACH to ERIE
                        182
                        
                    
                    XXIV. THE WRECKAGE of a STORM
                        190
                        
                    
                    XXV. CONNEAUT
                        197
                        
                    
                    XXVI. THE GAY LIFE of
                            the LAKE SHORE
                        204
                        
                    
                    XXVII. A SUMMER STORM and SOME COMMENTS on the PICTURE POSTCARD
                        214
                        
                    
                    
                    XXVIII. IN CLEVELAND
                        221
                        
                    
                    XXIX. THE FLAT LANDS
                            of OHIO
                        229
                        
                    
                    XXX. OSTEND PURGED of SIN
                        234
                        
                    
                    XXXI. WHEN HOPE HOPPED HIGH
                        244
                        
                    
                    XXXII. THE FRONTIER of INDIANA
                        256
                        
                    
                    XXXIII. ACROSS the BORDER of BOYLAND
                        264
                        
                    
                    XXXIV. A MIDDLE WESTERN CROWD
                        273
                        
                    
                    XXXV. WARSAW at LAST
                        283
                        
                    
                    XXXVI. WARSAW in 1884-6 290
                        
                    
                    XXXVII. THE OLD HOUSE
                        298
                        
                    
                    XXXVIII. DAY DREAMS
                        305
                        
                    
                    XXXIX. THE KISS of FAIR GUSTA
                        309
                        
                    
                    XL. OLD HAUNTS and OLD DREAMS
                        317
                        
                    
                    XLI. BILL ARNOLD and HIS BROOD
                        327
                        
                    
                    XLII. IN the CHAUTAUQUA BELT
                        335
                        
                    
                    XLIII. THE MYSTERY of COINCIDENCE
                        346
                        
                    
                    XLIV. THE FOLKS at CARMEL
                        357
                        
                    
                    XLV. AN INDIANA VILLAGE
                        370
                        
                    
                    XLVI. A SENTIMENTAL INTERLUDE
                        379
                        
                    
                    XLVII. INDIANAPOLIS and a GLYMPSE of
                            FAIRYLAND
                        385
                        
                    
                    XLVIII. THE SPIRIT of TERRE HAUTE
                        396
                        
                    
                    XLIX. TERRE HAUTE AFTER THIRTY-SEVEN YEARS
                        401
                        
                    
                    L. A LUSH, EGYPTIAN LAND
                        409
                        
                    
                    LI. ANOTHER "OLD HOME" 419
                        
                    
                    LII. HAIL, INDIANA! 428
                        
                    
                    LIII. FISHING in the BUSSERON and a
                            COUNTY FAIR
                        434
                        
                    
                    LIV. THE FERRY at DECKER
                        440
                        
                    
                    LV. A MINSTREL BROTHER
                        448
                        
                    
                    LVI. EVANSVILLE
                        454
                        
                    
                    LVII. THE BACKWOODS of INDIANA
                        465
                        
                    
                    LVIII. FRENCH LICK
                        475
                        
                    
                    LIX. A COLLEGE TOWN
                        486
                        
                    
                    LX. "BOOSTER DAY" and
                            a MEMORY
                        496
                        
                    
                    LXI. THE END of the JOURNEY
                        505
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    The Warsaw Home 
                            Frontispice
                            
                        
                    
                    The Old Essex and Morris Canal 38
                        
                    
                    Wilkes-Barre 58
                        
                    
                    A Coal Breaker Near Scranton 62
                        
                    
                    Franklin Studies an Obliterated Sign 70
                        
                    
                    Factoryville Bids Us Farewell 88
                        
                    
                    The Great Bridge at Nicholsen 94
                        
                    
                    Florence and the Arno, at Owego 110
                        
                    
                    Beyond Elmira 132
                        
                    
                    Franklin Dreams Over a River Beyond Savona 136
                        
                    
                    The "Toon O' Bath" 140
                        
                    
                    Egypt at Buffalo 178
                        
                    
                    Pleasure before Business 186
                        
                    
                    Conneaut, Ohio 200
                        
                    
                    The Bridge That Is to Make Franklin Famous 218
                        
                    
                    Where I Learn That I Am Not to Live Eighty Years 222
                        
                    
                    Cedar Point, Lake Erie 238
                        
                    
                    Hicksville 268
                        
                    
                    With the Old Settlers at Columbia City, Indiana 276
                        
                    
                    Central Indiana 330
                        
                    
                    In Carmel 362
                        
                    
                    The Best of Indianapolis 382
                        
                    
                    The Standard Bridge of Fifty Years Ago 390
                        
                    
                    Franklin's Impression of My Birthplace 398
                        
                    
                    
                    Terre Haute from West of the Wabash 404
                        
                    
                    My Father's Mill 422
                        
                    
                    Vincennes 432
                        
                    
                    The Ferry at Decker 444
                        
                    
                    The Ohio at Evansville 458
                        
                    
                    A Beautiful Tree on a Vile Road 468
                        
                    
                    A Cathedral of Trees 472
                        
                    
                    French Lick 478
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                A HOOSIER HOLIDAY
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE ROSE WINDOW
                    IT was at a modest evening reception I happened to be
                        giving to a new poet of renown that the idea of the holiday was first
                        conceived. I had not seen Franklin, subsequent companion of this pilgrimage,
                        in all of eight or nine months, his work calling him in one direction, mine
                        in another. He is an illustrator of repute, a master of pen and ink, what
                        you would call a really successful artist. He has a studio in New York,
                        another in Indiana—his home town—a car, a chauffeur, and so on.
                    I first met Franklin ten years before, when he was fresh from Indiana and
                        working on the Sunday supplement of a now defunct New York paper. I was
                        doing the same. I was drawn to him then because he had such an air of
                        unsophisticated and genial simplicity while looking so much the artist. I
                        liked his long, strong aquiline nose, and his hair of a fine black and
                        silver, though he was then only twenty-seven or eight. It is now white—a
                        soft, artistic shock of it, glistening white. Franklin is a Christian
                        Scientist, or dreamy metaphysician, a fact which may not commend him in the
                        eyes of many, though one would do better to await a full metaphysical
                        interpretation of his belief. It would do almost as well to call him a
                        Buddhist or a follower of the Bhagavad Gita. He has no hard and fast
                        Christian dogmas in mind. In fact, he is not a Christian at all, in the
                        accepted sense, but a genial, liberal, platonic metaphysician. I know of no
                        better way to describe him. Socalled sin, as something wherewith to reproach
                        one, does not exist for him. He has few complaints to make concerning
                        people's weaknesses  or errors. Nearly
                        everything is well. He lives happily along, sketching landscapes and trees
                        and drawing many fine simplicities and perfections. There is about him a
                        soothing repose which is not religious but human, which I felt, during all
                        the two thousand miles we subsequently idled together. Franklin is also a
                        very liberal liver, one who does not believe in stinting himself of the good
                        things of the world as he goes—a very excellent conclusion, I take it.
                    At the beginning of this particular evening nothing was farther from my mind
                        than the idea of going back to Indiana. Twentyeight years before, at the age
                        of sixteen, I had left Warsaw, the last place in the state where I had
                        resided. I had not been in the town of my birth, Terre Haute, Indiana, since
                        I was seven. I had not returned since I was twelve to Sullivan or Evansville
                        on the Ohio River, each of which towns had been my home for two years. The
                        State University of Indiana at Bloomington, in the south central portion of
                        the state, which had known me for one year when I was eighteen, had been
                        free of my presence for twentysix years.
                    And in that time what illusions had I not built up in connection with my
                        native state! Who does not allow fancy to color his primary experiences in
                        the world? Terre Haute! A small city in which, during my first seven years,
                        we lived in four houses. Sullivan, where we had lived from my seventh to my
                        tenth year, in one house, a picturesque white frame on the edge of the town.
                        In Evansville, at 1413 East Franklin Street, in a small brick, we had lived
                        one year, and in Warsaw, in the northern part of the state, in a
                        comparatively large brick house set in a grove of pines, we had spent four
                        years. My mother's relatives were all residents of this northern
                        section. There had been three months, between the time we left Evansville
                        and the time we settled in Warsaw, Kosciusko County, which we spent in
                        Chicago—my mother and nearly all of the children; also six weeks, between the
                        time we left Terre Haute and the  time we
                        settled in Sullivan, which we spent in Vincennes, Indiana, visiting a kindly
                        friend.
                    We were very poor in those days. My father had only comparatively recently
                        suffered severe reverses, from which he really never recovered. My mother, a
                        dreamy, poetic, impractical soul, was serving to the best of her ability as
                        the captain of the family ship. Most of the ten children had achieved
                        comparative maturity and had departed, or were preparing to depart, to shift
                        for themselves. Before us—us little ones—were all our lives. At home, in a
                        kind of intimacy which did not seem to concern the others because we were
                        the youngest, were my brother Ed, two years younger than myself; my sister
                        Claire (or Tillie), two years older, and occasionally my brother Albert, two
                        years older than Claire, or my sister Sylvia, four years older, alternating
                        as it were in the family home life. At other times they were out in the
                        world working. Sometimes there appeared on the scene, usually one at a time,
                        my elder brothers, Mark and Paul, and my elder sisters, Emma, Theresa, and
                        Mary, each named in the order of their ascending ages. As I have said, there
                        were ten all told—a restless, determined, halfeducated family who, had each
                        been properly trained according to his or her capacities, I have always
                        thought might have made a considerable stir in the world. As it was—but I
                        will try not to become too technical.
                    But in regard to all this and the material and spiritual character of our
                        life at that time, and what I had done and said, and what others had done
                        and said, what notions had not arisen! They were highly colored ones, which
                        might or might not have some relationship to the character of the country
                        out there as I had known it. I did not know. Anyhow, it had been one of my
                        dearly cherished ideas that some day, when I had the time and the money to
                        spare, I was going to pay a return visit to Indiana. My father had once
                        owned a woolen mill at Sullivan, still standing, I understood (or its
                        duplicate built after a fire), and he also had managed another  at Terre Haute. I had a vague recollection of
                        seeing him at work in this one at Terre Haute, and of being shown about,
                        having a spinning jenny and a carder and a weaver explained to me. I had
                        fished in the Busseron near Sullivan, nearly lost my life in the Ohio at
                        Evansville in the dead of winter, fallen in love with the first girls I ever
                        loved at Warsaw. The first girl who ever kissed me and the first girl I ever
                        ventured to kiss were at Warsaw. Would not that cast a celestial light over
                        any midwestern village, however homely?
                    Well, be that as it may, I had this illusion. Someday I was going back, only
                        in my plans I saw myself taking a train and loafing around in each village
                        and hamlet hours or days, or weeks if necessary. At Warsaw I would try to
                        find out about all the people I had ever known, particularly the boys and
                        girls who went to school with me. At Terre Haute I would look up the house
                        where I was born and our old house in Seventh Street, somewhere near a
                        lumber yard and some railroad tracks, where, in a cool, roomy, musty cellar,
                        I had swung in a swing hung from one of the rafters. Also in this lumber
                        yard and among these tracks where the cars were, I had played with Al and Ed
                        and other boys. Also in Thirteenth Street, Terre Haute, somewhere there was
                        a small house (those were the darkest days of our poverty), where I had been
                        sick with the measles. My father was an ardent Catholic. For the first
                        fifteen years of my life I was horrified by the grim spiritual punishments
                        enunciated by that faith. In this house in Thirteenth Street I had been
                        visited by a long, lank priest in black, who held a silver crucifix to my
                        lips to be kissed. That little house remains the apotheosis of earthly gloom
                        to me even now.
                    At Sullivan I intended to go out to the Basler House, where we lived, several
                        blocks from the local or old Evansville and Terre Haute depot. This house,
                        as I recalled, was a charming thing of six or seven rooms with a large lawn,
                        in which roses flourished, and with a truck garden north of it and a
                        wonderful clover field to the  rear (or east)
                        of it. This clover field—how shall I describe it?—but I can't. It
                        wasn't a clover field at all as I had come to think of it, but a
                        honey trove in Arcady. An army of humble bees came here to gather honey. In
                        those early dawns of spring, summer and autumn, when, for some reason not
                        clear to me now, I was given to rising at dawn, it was canopied by a
                        wonderful veil of clouds (tinted cirrus and nimbus effects), which seemed,
                        as I looked at them, too wonderful for words. Across the fields was a grove
                        of maples concealing a sugar camp (not ours), where I would go in the early
                        dawn to bring home a bucket of maple sap. And directly to the north of us
                        was a large, bare Gethsemane of a field, in the weedy hollows of which were
                        endless whitening bones, for here stood a small village slaughter house, the
                        sacrificial altar of one local butcher. It was not so gruesome as it
                        sounds—only dramatic.
                    But this field and the atmosphere of that home! I shall have to tell you
                        about them or the import of returning there will be as nothing. It was
                        between my seventh and my tenth year that we lived there, among the most
                        impressionable of all my youth. We were very hard pressed, as I understood
                        it later, but I was too young and too dreamy to feel the pinch of poverty.
                        This lower Wabash valley is an Egyptian realm—not very cold in winter, and
                        drowsy with heat in summer. Corn and wheat and hay and melons grow here in
                        heavy, plethoric fashion. Rains come infrequently, then only in deluging
                        storms. The spring comes early, the autumn lingers until quite New
                        Year's time. In the beech and ash and hickory groves are many
                        turtle doves. Great hawks and buzzards and eagles soar high in the air.
                        House and barn martins circle in covies. The bluejay and scarlet tanager
                        flash and cry. In the eaves of our cottage were bluebirds and wrens, and to
                        our trumpet vines and purple clematis came wondrous humming birds to poise
                        and glitter, tropic in their radiance. In old Kirkwood's orchard, a
                        quarter of a mile away over the  clover field,
                        I can still hear the guinea fowls and the peacocks "calling for
                        rain."
                    Sometimes the experiences of delicious years make a stained glass window—the
                        rose window of the west—in the cathedral of our life. These three years in
                        "dirty old Sullivan," as one of my sisters once called it
                        (with a lip-curl of contempt thrown in for good measure), form such a flower
                        of stained glass in mine. They are my rose window. In symphonies of leaded
                        glass, blue, violet, gold and rose are the sweet harmonies of memory with
                        all the ills of youth discarded. A bare-foot boy is sitting astride a high
                        board fence at dawn. Above him are the tinted fleeces of heaven, those
                        golden argosies of youthful seas of dream. Over the blooming clover are
                        scudding the swallows, "my heart remembers how." I look,
                        and in a fence corner is a spider web impearled with dew, a great yellow
                        spider somewhere on its surface is repairing a strand. At a window
                        commanding the field, a window in the kitchen, is my mother. My brother Ed
                        has not risen yet, nor my sister Tillie. The boy looks at the sky. He loves
                        the feel of the dawn. He knows nothing of whence he is coming or where he is
                        going, only all is sensuously, deliriously gay and beautiful. Youth is his:
                        the tingle and response of a new body; the bloom and fragrance of the clover
                        in the air; the sense of the mystery of flying. He sits and sings some
                        tuneless tune. Of such is the kingdom of heaven.
                    Or it is a great tree, say, a hundred yards from the house. In its thick
                        leaves and widespreading branches the wind is stirring. Under its shade Ed
                        and Tillie and I are playing house. What am I? Oh, a son, a husband, or
                        indeed anything that the occasion requires. We play at duties—getting
                        breakfast, or going to work, or coming home. Why? But a turtle dove is
                        calling somewhere in the depths of a woodland, and that gives me pause.
                        "Bob white" cries and I think of strange and faroff things
                        to come. A buzzard is poised in the high blue above and I wish I might soar
                        on wings as wide.
                    Or is it a day with a pet dog? Now they are running  side by side over a stubbly field. Now the dog has wandered
                        away and the boy is calling. Now the boy is sitting in a rocking chair by a
                        window and holding the dog in his lap, studying a gnarled tree in the
                        distance, where sits a hawk all day, meditating no doubt on his midnight
                        crimes. Now the dog is gone forever, shot somewhere for chasing sheep, and
                        the boy, disconsolate, is standing under a tree, calling, calling, calling,
                        until the sadness of his own voice and the futility of his cries moves him
                        nearly to tears.
                    These and many scenes like these make my rose window of the west.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE SCENIC ROUTE
                    IT was a flash of all this that came to me when in the
                        midst of the blathering and fol de rol of a gay evening Franklin suddenly
                        approached me and said, quite apropos of nothing: "How would you
                        like to go out to Indiana in my car?"
                    "I'll tell you what, Franklin," I answered, all my
                        life I've been thinking of making a return trip to Indiana and
                        writing a book about it. I was born in Terre Haute, down in the southwest
                        there below you, and I was brought up in Sullivan and Evansville in the
                        southern part of the state and in Warsaw up north. Agree to take me to all
                        those places after we get there, and I'll go. What's more,
                        you can illustrate the book if you will."
                    "I'll do that," he said. "Warsaw is only
                        about two hours north of our place. Terre Haute is seventyfive miles away.
                        Evansville is a hundred and fifty. We'll make a oneday trip to the
                        northern part and a threeday trip to the southern. I stipulate but one
                        thing. If we ruin many tires, we split the cost."
                    To this I agreed.
                    Franklin's home was really central for all places. It was at Carmel,
                        fifteen miles north of Indianapolis. His plan, once the trip was over, was
                        to camp there in his country studio, and paint during the autumn. Mine was
                        to return direct to New York.
                    We were to go up the Hudson to Albany and via various perfect state roads to
                        Buffalo. There we were to follow other smooth roads along the shore of Lake
                        Erie to Cleveland and Toledo, and possibly Detroit. There we were to cut
                        southwest to Indianapolis—so close to Carmel. It had not occurred to either
                        of us yet to  go direct to Warsaw from Toledo
                        or thereabouts, and thence south to Carmel. That was to come as an
                        afterthought.
                    But this Hudson-Albany-State-road route irritated me from the very first.
                        Everyone traveling in an automobile seemed inclined to travel that way. I
                        had a vision of thousands of cars which we would have to trail, consuming
                        their dust, or meet and pass, coming toward us. By now the Hudson River was
                        a chestnut. Having traveled by the Pennsylvania and the Central over and
                        over to the west, all this mid-New York and southern Pennsylvania territory
                        was wearisome to think of. Give me the poor, undernourished routes which the
                        dull, imitative rabble shun, and where, because of this very fact, you have
                        some peace and quiet. I traveled all the way uptown the next day to voice my
                        preference in regard to this matter.
                    "I'd like to make a book out of this," I
                        explained, "if the material is interesting enough, and there
                        isn't a thing that you can say about the Hudson River or the
                        central part of New York State that hasn't been said a thousand
                        times before. Poughkeepsie, Albany, Troy, Syracuse, Rochester—all ghastly
                        manufacturing towns. Why don't we cut due west and see how we make
                        out? This is the nicest, dryest time of the year. Let's go west to
                        the Water Gap, and straight from there through Pennsylvania to some point in
                        Ohio, then on to Indianapolis." A vision of quaint, wild,
                        unexpected regions in Pennsylvania came to me.
                    "Very good," he replied genially. He was playing with a
                        cheerful, pop-eyed French bull. "Perhaps that would be better. The
                        other would have the best roads, but we're not going for roads
                        exactly. Do you know the country out through there?"
                    "No," replied. "But we can find out. I suppose the
                        Automobile Club of America ought to help us. I might go round there and see
                        what I can discover."
                    "Do that," he applauded, and I was making to depart  when Franklin's brother and his
                        chauffeur entered. The latter he introduced as
                        "Speed."
                    "Speed," he said, "this is Mr. Dreiser, who is
                        going with us. He wants to ride directly west across Pennsylvania to Ohio
                        and so on to Indianapolis. Do you think you can take us through that
                        way?"
                    A blond, lithe, gangling youth with an eerie farmer-like look and smile
                        ambled across the room and took my hand. He seemed half mechanic, half
                        street-car conductor, half mentor, guide and friend.
                    "Sure," he replied, with a kind of childish smile that won
                        instantly—a little girl smile, really. "If there are any roads, I
                        can. We can go anywhere the car'll go."
                    I liked him thoroughly. All the time I was trying to think where I had seen
                        Speed before. Suddenly it came to me. There had been a car conductor in a
                        recent comedy. This was the stage character to life. Besides he reeked of
                        Indiana—the real Hoosier. If you have ever seen one, you'll know
                        what I mean.
                    "Very good," I said. "Fine. Are you as swift as
                        your name indicates, Speed?"
                    "I'm pretty swift,"-he said, with the same glance
                        that a collie will give you at times—a gay, innocent light of the eyes!
                    A little while later Franklin was saying to me that he had no real complaint
                        against Speed except this: "If you drive up to the St. Regis and go
                        in for half an hour, when you come out the sidewalk is all covered with
                        tools and the engine dismantled—that is, if the police have not
                        interfered."
                    "Just the same," put in Fred Booth, "he is one of
                        the chauffeurs who led the procession of cars from New York over the
                        Alleghanies and Rockies to the coast, laying out the Lincoln
                        Highway." (Afterwards I saw testimonials and autographed plates
                        which proved this.) "He can take a car anywhere she'll
                        go."
                    Then I proceeded to the great automobile club for information.
                    
                    "Are you a member?" asked the smug attendant, a polite,
                        airy, bufferish character.
                    "No, only the temporary possessor of a car for a tour."
                    "Then we can do nothing for you. Only members are provided with
                        information."
                    On the table by which I was standing lay an automobile monthly. In its pages,
                        which I had been idly thumbing as I waited, were a dozen maps of tours,
                        those deceptive things gotten up by associated roadhouses and hotels in
                        their own interest. One was labeled "The Scenic Route,"
                        and showed a broad black line extending from New York via the Water Gap,
                        Stroudsburg, Wilkes-Barré, Scranton, Binghamton, and a place called Watkins
                        Glen, to Buffalo and Niagara Falls. This interested me. These places are in
                        the heart of the Alleghanies and of the anthracite coal region. Visions of
                        green hills, deep valleys, winding rivers, glistering cataracts and the like
                        leaped before my mind.
                    "The Scenic Route!" I ventured. "Here's a
                        map that seems to cover what I want. What number is this?"
                    "Take it, take it!" replied the lofty attendant, as if to
                        shoo me out of the place. "You are welcome."
                    "May I pay you?"
                    "No, no, you're welcome to it."
                    I bowed myself humbly away.
                    "Well, auto club or no auto club, here is something, a real
                        route," I said to myself. "Anyhow it will do to get us as
                        far as Wilkes-Barré or Scranton. After that we'll just cut west if
                        we have to."
                    On the way home I mooned over such names as Tobyhanna, Meshoppen, Blossburg,
                        and Roaring Branch. What sort of places were they? Oh, to be speeding along
                        in this fine warm August weather! To be looking at the odd places, seeing
                        mountains, going back to Warsaw and Sullivan and Terre Haute and
                        Evansville!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    ACROSS THE MEADOWS TO THE PASSAIC
                    I ASSUME that automobiling, even to the extent of a
                        two-thousand-mile trip such as this proved to be, is an old story to most
                        people. Anybody can do it, apparently. The difference is to the man who is
                        making the trip, and for me this one had the added fillip of including that
                        pilgrimage which I was certain of making some time.
                    There was an unavoidable delay owing to the sudden illness of Speed, and then
                        the next morning, when I was uncertain as to whether the trip had been
                        abandoned or no, the car appeared at my door in Tenth Street, and off we
                        sped. There were some amusing preliminaries. I was introduced to Miss H—, a
                        lady who was to accompany us on the first day of our journey. A photograph
                        was taken, the bags had to be arranged and strapped on the outside, and
                        Speed had to examine his engine most carefully. Finally we were off—up Eighth
                        Avenue and across Fortysecond Street to the West Forty-second Street Ferry,
                        while we talked of non-skid chains and Silvertown tires and the durability
                        of the machines in general—this one in particular. It proved to be a handsome
                        sixty-horsepower Pathfinder, only recently purchased, very presentable and
                        shiny.
                    As we crossed the West Fortysecond Street Ferry I stood out on the front deck
                        till we landed, looking at the refreshing scene the river presented. The day
                        was fine, nearly mid-August, with a sky as blue as weak indigo. Flocks of
                        gulls that frequent the North River were dipping and wheeling. A cool, fresh
                        wind was blowing.
                    As we stood out in front Miss H— deigned to tell me something of her life. She
                        is one of those self-conscious,  carefully
                        dressed, seemingly prosperous maidens of some beauty who frequent the stage
                        and the studios. At present she was Franklin's chief model.
                        Recently she had been in some pantomime, dancing. A little wearied perhaps
                        (for all her looks), she told me her stage and art experiences. She had to
                        do something. She could sing, dance, act a little, and draw, she said.
                        Artists seemed to crave her as a model—so—
                    She lifted a thin silk veil and dabbed her nose with a mere rumor of a
                        handkerchief. Looking at her so fresh and spick in the morning sunlight, I
                        could not help feeling that Franklin was to be congratulated in the
                        selection of his models.
                    But in a few minutes we were off again, Speed obviously holding in the
                        machine out of respect for officers who appeared at intervals, even in
                        Weehawken, to wave us on or back. I could not help feeling as I looked at
                        them how rapidly the passion for regulating street traffic had grown in the
                        last few years. Everywhere we seemed to be encountering them—the regulation
                        New York police cap (borrowed from the German army) shading their eyes,
                        their air of majesty beggaring the memories of Rome—and scarcely a wagon to
                        regulate. At Passaic, at Paterson—but I anticipate.
                    As we hunted for a road across the meadows we got lost in a maze of shabby
                        streets where dirty children were playing in the dust, and, as we gingerly
                        picked our way over rough cobbles, I began to fear that much of this would
                        make a disagreeable trip. But we would soon be out of it, in all
                        likelihood—miles and miles away from the hot, dusty city.
                    I can think of nothing more suited to my temperament than automobiling. It
                        supplies just that mixture of change in fixity which satisfies me—leaves me
                        mentally poised in inquiry, which is always delightful. Now, for instance,
                        we were coming out on a wide, smooth macadam road, which led, without a
                        break, as someone informed us, into Passaic and then into Paterson. It was
                        the first opportunity that Speed had had to show what the machine  could do, and instantly, though various signs
                        read, "Speed limit: 25 miles an hour," I saw the
                        speedometer climb to thirtyfive and then forty and then fortyfive. It was a
                        smooth-running machine which, at its best (or worst), gave vent to a
                        tr-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r which became after a while somewhat like a croon.
                    Though it was a blazing hot day (as any momentary pause proved, the leather
                        cushions becoming like an oven), on this smooth road, and at this speed, it
                        was almost too cool. I had decked myself out in a brown linen outing shirt
                        and low visored cap. Now I felt as though I might require my overcoat. There
                        was no dust to speak of, and under the low branches of trees and passing
                        delightful dooryards all the homey flowers of August were blooming in
                        abundance. Now we were following the Hackensack and the Passaic in spots,
                        seeing long, low brick sheds in the former set down in wind rhythmed marsh
                        grass, and on the latter towering stacks and also simple clubs where canoes
                        were to be seen—white, red and green—and a kind of August summer life
                        prevailing for those who could not go further. I was becoming enamored of
                        our American country life once more.
                    Paterson, to most New Yorkers, and for that matter to most Americans, may be
                        an old story. To me it is one of the most interesting pools of life I know.
                        There is nothing in Paterson, most people will tell you, save silk mills and
                        five-and-ten-cent stores. It is true. Yet to me it is a beautiful city in
                        the creative sense—a place in which to stage a great novel. These mills—have
                        you ever seen them? They line the Passaic river and various smooth canals
                        that branch out from it. It was no doubt the well-known waterfall and rapids
                        of this river that originally drew manufacturers to Paterson, supplied the
                        first mills with water, and gave the city its start. Then along came steam
                        and all the wonders of modern electricity-driven looms. The day we were
                        there they were just completing a power plant or city water supply system.
                        The ground around the falls had been parked, and standing  on a new bridge one could look down into a
                        great round, grey-black pit or cup, into which tumbled the water of the
                        sturdy little river above. By the drop of eighty or a hundred feet it was
                        churned into a white spray which bounded back almost to the bridge where we
                        stood. In this gay sunlight a rainbow was ever present—a fine five-striped
                        thing, which paled and then strengthened as the spray thinned or
                        thickened.
                    Below, over a great flume of rocks, that stretched outward toward the city,
                        the expended current was bubbling away, spinning past the mills and the
                        bridges. From the mills themselves, as one drew near, came the crash of
                        shuttles and the thrum of spindles, where thousands of workers were immured,
                        weaving the silk which probably they might never wear. I could not help
                        thinking, as I stood looking at them, of the great strike that had occurred
                        two years before, in which all sorts of nameless brutalities had occurred,
                        brutalities practised by judges, manufacturers and the police no less than
                        by the eager workers themselves.
                    In spite of all the evidence I have that human nature is much the same at the
                        bottom as at the top, and that the restless striker of today may be the
                        oppressive manufacturer or boss of tomorrow, I cannot help sympathizing with
                        the working rank and file. Why should the man at the top, I ask myself, want
                        more than a reasonable authority? Why endless houses, and lands, and stocks,
                        and bonds to flaunt a prosperity that he does not need and cannot feel? I am
                        convinced that man in toto—the race itself—is nothing more
                        nor less as yet than an embryo in the womb of something which we cannot see.
                        We are to be protected (as a race) and born into something (some state)
                        which we cannot as yet understand or even feel. We, as individual atoms, may
                        never know, any more than the atoms or individual plasm cells which
                        constructed us ever knew. But we race atoms are being driven to do
                        something, construct something—(a race man or woman, let us say)—and like the
                        atoms in the embryo, we are struggling and fetching and carrying. I  did not always believe in some one
                        "divine faroff event" for the race. I do not accept the
                        adjective divine even now. But I do believe that these atoms are not toiling
                        for exactly nothing—or at least, that the nothingness is not quite as
                        undeniable as it was. There is something back of man. An avatar, a devil,
                        anything you will, is trying to do something, and man is His medium, His
                        brush, His paint, His idea. Against the illimitable space of things He is
                        attempting to set forth his vision. Is the vision good? Who knows! It may be
                        as bad as that of the lowest vaudeville performer clowning it before a
                        hoodlum audience. But good or bad, here it is, struggling to make itself
                        manifest, and we are of it!
                    What if it is a mad, aimless farce, my masters?
                        Shan't we clown it all together and make the best of it?
                    Ha ha! Ho ho! We are all crazy and He is crazy! Ha ha! Ho ho!
                    Or do I hear someone crying?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    THE PIETY AND EGGS OF PATERSON
                    BUT in addition to mills and the falls, Paterson offered
                        another subject of conversation. Only recently there had been completed
                        there an evangelical revival by one "Billy" Sunday, who
                        had addressed from eight to twenty thousand people at each meeting in a
                        specially constructed tabernacle, and caused from one to five hundred or a
                        thousand a day to "hit the trail," as he phrased it, or in
                        other words to declare that they were "converted to
                        Christ," and hence saved.
                    America strikes me as an exceedingly intelligent land at times, with its
                        far-flung states, its fine mechanical equipment, its good homes and liberal,
                        rather non-interfering form of government, but when one contemplates such a
                        mountebank spectacle as this, what is one to say? I suppose one had really
                        better go deeper than America and contemplate nature itself. But then what
                        is one to say of nature?
                    We discussed this while passing various mills and brown wooden streets, so
                        poor that they were discouraging.
                    "It is curious, but it is just such places as Paterson that seem to
                        be afflicted with unreasoning emotions of this kind, observed Franklin
                        wearily. "Gather together hordes of working people who have little
                        or no skill above machines, and then comes the revivalist and waves of
                        religion. Look at Pittsburg and Philadelphia. See how well Sunday did there.
                        He converted thousands."
                    He smiled heavily.
                    "'Billy' Sunday comes from out near your
                        town," volunteered Speed informatively. "He lives at
                        Winona Lake. That's a part of Warsaw now."
                    
                    "Yes, and he conducts a summer revival right there occasionally, I
                        believe," added Franklin, a little vindictively, I thought.
                    "Save me!" I pleaded. "Anyhow, I wasn't
                        born there. I only lived there for a little while."
                    This revival came directly on the heels of a great strike, during which
                        thousands were compelled to obtain their food at soup houses, or to report
                        weekly to the local officers of the union for some slight dole. The good God
                        was giving them wrathful, condemnatory manufacturers, and clubbing, cynical
                        police. Who was it, then, that "revived" and "hit
                        the trail"? The same who were starved and clubbed and lived in
                        camps, arid were railroaded to jail? Or were they the families of the bosses
                        and manufacturers, who had suppressed the strike and were thankful for past
                        favors (for they eventually won, I believe)? Or was it some intermediate
                        element that had nothing to do with manufacturers or workers?
                    The day we went through, some Sunday school parade was preparing. There were
                        dozens of wagons and autotrucks and automobiles gaily bedecked with flags
                        and bunting and Sunday school banners. Hundreds, I might almost guess
                        thousands, of children in freshly ironed white dresses and gay ribbons,
                        carrying parasols, and chaperoned by various serious looking mothers and
                        elders, were in these conveyances, all celebrating, presumably, the glory
                        and goodness of God!
                    A spectacle like this, I am free to say, invariably causes me to scoff. I
                        cannot help smiling at a world that cannot devise some really poetical or
                        ethical reason for worshiping or celebrating or what you will, but must
                        indulge in shrines and genuflections and temples to false or impossible
                        ideas or deities. They have made a God of Christ, who was at best a
                        humanitarian poet—but not on the basis on which he offered himself. Never!
                        They had to bind him up with the execrable yah-vah of the Hebrews, and make
                        him now a God of mercy, and now a God of horror. They had to dig themselves
                        a hell, and they still cling to it. They had to secure a church organization
                             and appoint strutting vicars of Christ to
                        misinterpret him, and all that he believed. This wretched mountebank
                        "who came here and converted thousands"—think of him with
                        his yapping about hell, his bar-room and race-track slang, his base-ball
                        vocabulary. And thousands of poor worms who could not possibly offer one
                        reasonable or intelligible thought concerning their faith or history or
                        life, or indeed anything, fall on their knees and "accept
                        Christ." And then they pass the collection plate and build more
                        temples and conduct more revivals.
                    What does the God of our universe want, anyway? Slaves? Or beings who attempt
                        to think? Is the fable of Prometheus true after all? Is autocracy the true
                        interpretation of all things—or is this an accidental phase, infinitely brief
                        in the long flow of things, and eventually to be done away with? I, for one,
                        hope so.
                    Beyond Paterson we found a rather good road leading to a place called
                        Boonton, via Little Falls, Singac, and other smaller towns, and still
                        skirting the banks of the Passaic River. In Paterson we had purchased four
                        hardboiled eggs, two pies, four slices of ham and some slices of bread, and
                        four bottles of beer, and it being somewhere near noon we decided to have
                        lunch. The task of finding an ideal spot was difficult, for we were in a
                        holiday mood and content with nothing less than perfection. Although we were
                        constantly passing idyllic scenes—waterfalls, glens, a canal crossing over a
                        stream—none would do exactly. In most places there was no means of bringing
                        the car near enough to watch it. One spot proved of considerable interest,
                        however, for, although we did not stay, in spying about we found an old
                        mosscovered, red granite block three feet square and at least eight feet
                        long, on which was carved a statement to the effect that this canal had been
                        completed in 1829, and that the following gentlemen, as officers and
                        directors, had been responsible. Then followed a long list of names—Adoniram
                        this, and Cornelius that, good and true business men all, whose carved
                        symbols were now stuffed with mud and dust. This same canal was very
                        familiar to  me, I having walked every inch of
                        it from New York to the Delaware River during various summer holidays. But
                        somehow I had never before come upon this memorial stone. Here some twenty
                        men, of a period so late as 1829, caused their names to be graven on a great
                        stone which should attest their part in the construction of a great canal—a
                        canal reaching from New York Bay to the Delaware River—and here lies the
                        record under dust and vines! The canal itself is now entirely obsolete.
                        Although the State of New Jersey annually spends some little money to keep
                        it clean, it is rarely if ever used by boats. It was designed originally to
                        bring hard coal from that same region around Wilkes-Barré and Scranton,
                        toward which we were speeding. A powerful railroad corporation crept in,
                        paralleled it, and destroyed it. This same corporation, eager to make its
                        work complete, and thinking that the mere existence of the canal might some
                        day cause it to be revived, and wanting no water competition in the carrying
                        of coal, had a bill introduced into the State legislature of New Jersey,
                        ordering, or at least sanctioning that it should be filled in, in places.
                        Some citizens objected, several newspapers cried out, and so the bill was
                        dropped. But you may walk along a canal costing originally fifty million
                        dollars, and still ornamented at regular intervals with locks and planes,
                        and never encounter anything larger than a canoe. Pretty farm houses face it
                        now; door yards come down to the very water; ducks and swans float on its
                        surface and cattle graze nearby. I have spent as much as two long
                        springtimes idling along its banks. It is beautiful—
                        but it is useless.
                    We did eventually come to a place that suited us exactly for our picnic. The
                        river we were following widened at this point and skirted so near the road
                        that it was no trouble to have our machine near at hand and still sit under
                        the trees by the waterside. Cottages and tents were sprinkled cheerily along
                        the farther shore, and the river was dotted with canoes and punts of various
                        colors. Under a group of trees we stepped out and spread our  feast. It was all so lovely that it seemed a
                        bit out of fairyland or a sketch by Watteau. Franklin being a Christian
                        Scientist, it was his duty, as I explained to him, to
                        "think" any flies or mosquitoes awayto
                        "realized" for us all that they could not be, and so leave
                        us to enjoy our meal in peace. Miss H— was to be the background of
                        perfection, the color spot, the proof of holiday, like all the ladies in
                        Watteau and Boucher. The machine and Speed, his cap adjusted to a rakish
                        angle, were to prove that we were gentlemen of leisure. On leaving New York
                        I saw that he had a moustache capable of that upward twist so admired of the
                        German Emperor, and so now I began to urge him to make the ends stand up so
                        that he would be the embodiment of the distingu. Nothing
                        loath, he complied smilingly, that same collielike smile in his eyes that I
                        so much enjoy.
                    It was Franklin who had purchased the eggs. He had gone across the street in
                        Paterson, his belted dust-coat swinging most impressively, and entering a
                        little quick lunch room, had purchased these same eggs. Afterward he
                        admitted that as he was leaving he noticed the black moustached face of a
                        cook and the villainous head of a scullion peering after him from a sort of
                        cook's galley window with what seemed to him "a rumor of a
                        sardonic smile." But suspecting nothing, he went his way. Now,
                        however, I peeled one of these eggs, and touching it with salt, bit into it.
                        Then I slowly turned my head, extracted as much as I could silently with a
                        paper napkin, and deposited it with an air of great peace upon the ground. I
                        did not propose to be the butt of any ribald remarks.
                    Presently I saw Franklin preparing his. He crushed the shell, and after
                        stripping the glistening surface dipped it in salt. I wondered would it be
                        good. Then he bit into it and paused, took up a napkin with a very graceful
                        and philosophic air, and wiped his mouth. I was not quite sure what had
                        happened.
                    "Was your egg good?" he said finally, examining me with an
                        odd expression.
                    "It was not," I replied. "The most villainously
                        bad  egg I have had in years. And here it goes,
                        straight to the fishes."
                    I threw it.
                    "Well, they can have mine," observed Miss H—, sniffing
                        gingerly.
                    "What do you know about that?" exclaimed Speed, who was
                        sitting some distance from the rest of us and consuming his share.
                        "I think the man that sold you those ought to be taken out and
                        slapped gently," and he threw his away. "Say! And four of
                        them all at once too. I'd just like to get a camera and photograph
                        him. He's a bird, he is."
                    There was something amazingly comic to me in the very sound of
                        Speed's voice. I cannot indicate just what, but his attempt at
                        scorn was so inadequate, so childlike.
                    "Well, anyhow, the fishes won't mind," I said.
                        "They like nice, fresh Franklin eggs. Franklin is their best
                        friend, aren't you, Franklin? You love fishes, don't
                        you?"
                    Booth sat there, his esoteric faith in the wellbeing of everything permitting
                        him to smile a gentle, tolerant smile.
                    "You know, I wondered why those two fellows seemed to smile at
                        me," he finally commented. "They must have done this on
                        purpose."
                    "Oh no," I replied, "not to a full fledged
                        Christian Scientist! Never! These eggs must be perfect. The error is with
                        us. We have thought bad eggs, that's
                        all."
                    We got up and tossed the empty beer bottles into the stream, trying to sink
                        them with stones. I think I added one hundred stones to the bed of the river
                        without sinking a single bottle. Speed threw in a rock pretending it was a
                        bottle and I even threw at that before discovering my mistake. Finally we
                        climbed into our car and sped onward, new joys always glimmering in the
                        distance.
                    "Just to think," I said to myself, "there are to
                        be two whole weeks of this in this glorious August weather. What lovely
                        things we shall see!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    ACROSS THE DELAWARE
                    THE afternoon run was even more delightful than that of
                        the morning. Yet one does not really get free of New York—its bustle and
                        thickness of traffic—until one gets west of Paterson, which is twentyfive
                        miles west, and not even then. New York is so all embracing. It is supposed
                        to be chiefly representnted by Manhattan Island, but the feel of it really
                        extends to the Delaware Water Gap, one hundred miles west, as it does to the
                        eastern end of Long Island, one hundred miles east, and to Philadelphia, one
                        hundred miles south, or Albany, one hundred miles north. It is all New
                        York.
                    But west of Paterson and Boonton the surge of traffic was beginning to
                        diminish, and we were beginning to taste the real country. Not so many
                        autotrucks and wagons were encountered here, though automobiles proper were
                        even more numerous, if anything. This was a wealthy residence section we
                        were traversing, with large handsome machines as common as wagons elsewhere,
                        and the occupants looked their material prosperity. The roads, too, as far
                        as Dover, our next large, town, thirty miles on, were beautiful—smooth, grey
                        and white macadam, lined mostly with kempt lawns, handsome hedges, charming
                        dwellings, and how and then yellow fields of wheat or oats or rye, with
                        intermediate acres of tall, ripe corn. I never saw better fields of grain,
                        and remembered reading in the papers that this was a banner season for
                        crops. The sky, too, was wholly entrancing, a clear blue, with great, fleecy
                        clouds sailing along in the distance like immense hills or ships. We passed
                        various small hotels and summer cottages, nestling among these low hills,
                        where summer boarders were sitting on verandas, reading  books or swinging in hammocks or crocheting, American fashion,
                        in rocking chairs. All my dread of the conventional American family arose as
                        I surveyed them, for somehow, as idyllic as all this might appear on the
                        surface, it smacked the least bit of the doldrums. Youths and maidens
                        playing croquet and tennis, mother (and much more rarely father) seated
                        near, reading and watching. The three regular meals, the regular nine
                        o'clock hour for retiring! Well, I was glad we were making forty
                        miles an hour.
                    As we passed through Dover it was three o'clock. As we passed
                        Hopatcong, after pausing to sketch a bridge over the canal, it was nearing
                        four. There were pauses constantly which interrupted our speed. Now it was a
                        flock of birds flying over a pool, all their fluttering wings reflected in
                        the water, and Franklin had to get out and make a pencil note of it. Now a
                        lovely view over some distant hills, a small town in a valley, a factory
                        stack by some water side.
                    "Say, do these people here ever expect to get to Indiana?"
                        remarked Speed in an aside to Miss H—.
                    We had to stop in Dover—a city of thirty thousand—at the principal drug store,
                        for a glass of ice cream soda. We had to stop at Hopatcong and get a time
                        table in order to learn whether Miss H— could get a train in from the Water
                        Gap later in the evening. We had to stop and admire a garden of goldenglows
                        and old fashioned August flowers.
                    Beyond Hopatcong we began to realize that we would no more than make the
                        Water Gap this day. The hills and valleys were becoming more marked, the
                        roads more difficult to ascend. As we passed Stanhope, a small town beyond
                        Hopatcong, we got on the wrong road and had to return, a common subsequent
                        experience. Beyond Stanhope we petitioned one family group—a mother and three
                        children—for some water, and were refused. A half mile further on, seeing a
                        small iron pump on a lawn, we stopped again. A lean, dreamy woman came out
                        and we asked her. "Yes, surely," she replied and
                        re-entered  the house, returning with a blue
                        pitcher. Chained to a nearby tree a collie bitch which looked for all the
                        world like a fox jumped and barked for joy.
                    "Are you going to Hackettstown?" asked our hostess
                        simply.
                    "We're going through to Indiana," confided
                        Franklin in a neighborly fashion.
                    A look of childlike wonder at the far off came into the woman's
                        voice and eyes. "To Indiana?" she replied.
                        "That's a long way, isn't it?"
                    "Oh, about nine hundred miles," volunteered Speed
                        briskly.
                    As we sped away—vain of our exploit, I fancy—she stood there, pitcher in hand,
                        looking after us. I wished heartily she might ride all the long distances
                        her moods might crave. "Only," I thought, "would
                        it be a fair exchange for all her delightsome wonder?"
                    This side of Hackettstown we careened along a ridge under beautiful trees
                        surveying someone's splendid country estate, with a great house, a
                        lake and hills of sheep. On the other side of Hackettstown we had a blow out
                        and had to stop and change a tire. A Russian moujik,
                        transplanted to America and farming in this region, interested me. A reaper
                        whirring in a splendid field of grain informed me that we were abroad at
                        harvest time—we would see much reaping then. While the wheel was being
                        repaired I picked up a scrap of newspaper lying on the road. It was of
                        recent issue and contained an advertisement of a great farm for sale which
                        read "Winter is no time to look at a farm, for then everything is
                        out of commission and you cannot tell what a farm is worth. Spring is a
                        dangerous time, for then everything is at its best, and you are apt to be
                        deceived by fields and houses which later you would not think of buying.
                        Mid-August is the ideal time. Everything is bearing by then. If a field or a
                        yard or a house or cattle look good at that time you may be sure that they
                        will look as good or better at others. Examine in mid-August. Examine
                        now."
                    "Ah," I said, "now I shall see this eastern half
                        of the  United States at the best time. If it
                        looks good now I shall know pretty well how good eastern America
                        is."
                    And so we sped on, passing a little farther on a forlorn, decadent, gloomy
                        hamlet about which I wanted to write a poem or an essay. Edgar Allan Poe
                        might have lived here and written "The Raven." The house
                        of Usher might have been a dwelling in one of these hypochondriacal streets.
                        They were so dim and gloomy and sad. Still farther on as we neared the
                        Delaware we came into a mountain country which seemed almost entirely
                        devoted to cattle and the dairy business. It was not an ultra prosperous
                        land—what mountain country is? You can find it on the map if you choose,
                        lying between Phillipsburg and the river.
                    Something—perhaps the approach of evening, perhaps the gloom of great hills
                        which make darksome valleys wherein lurk early shadows and cool, damp airs;
                        perhaps the tinkle of cowbells and the lowing of homing herds; perhaps the
                        presence of dooryards where laborers and farmers, newly returned from work,
                        were washing their hands in pans outside of kitchen doors; or the smoke curl
                        of evening fires from chimneys, or the glint of evening lamps through doors
                        and windows—was very touching about all this; anyhow, as we sped along I was
                        greatly moved. Life orchestrates itself at times so perfectly. It sings like
                        a prima donna of humble joys, and happy homes and simple tasks. It creates
                        like a great virtuoso, bow in hand, or fingers upon invisible keys, a
                        supreme illusion. The heart hurts; one's eyes fill with tears. We
                        skirted great hills so close that at times, as one looked up, it seemed as
                        though they might come crashing down on us. We passed thick forests where in
                        this mid-August weather, one could look into deep shadows, feeling the
                        ancient childish terror of the woods and of the dark. I looked up a cliff
                        side—very high up—and saw a railroad station labeled MANUNKA-CHUNK. I looked into a barnyard and saw
                        pigs grunting over corn and swill, and a few chickens trying to flutter up
                        into a low tree. The night was nigh.
                    
                    
                        THE OLD ESSEX AND MORRIS CANAL
                    
                    
                    Presently, in this sweet gloom we reached a ferry which crosses the river
                        somewhere near the Water Gap and which we were induced to approach because
                        we knew of no bridge. On the opposite side, anchored to a wire which crossed
                        the river, was a low flat punt, which looked for all the world like a
                        shallow saucepan. We called "Yoho!" and back came the
                        answer "All right!" Presently the punt came over and in a
                        silvery twilight Speed maneuvered the car onto the craft. A tall, lank yokel
                        greeted us.
                    "Goin' to the Water Gap?"
                    "Yes, how far is it?"
                    "Seven miles."
                    "What time is it?"
                    "Seven o'clock."
                    That gave us an hour in which to make Miss H—'s train.
                    "That's Pennsylvania over there, isn't
                        it?"
                    "Yep, that's Pennsylvania. There ain't nothing in
                        New Jersey 'cept cows and mountains."
                    He grinned as though he had made a great joke.
                    Speed, as usual, was examining the engine. Franklin and I were gazing
                        enraptured at the stately hills which sentinel this stream. In the distance
                        was the Water Gap, a great cleft in the hills where in unrecorded days the
                        river is believed to have cut its way through. One could see the vast
                        masonry of some bridge which had been constructed farther up the stream.
                    We clambered up the bank on the farther side, the car making a great noise.
                        In this sweet twilight with fireflies and spirals of gnats and
                        "pinchin' bugs," as Speed called them, we tore
                        the remainder of the distance, the eyes of the car glowing like great
                        flames. Along this river road we encountered endless groups of strolling
                        summer boarders—girls with their arms about each other, quiescent women and
                        older maids idling in the evening damp.
                    "A land of summer hotels this, and summer boarding houses,"
                        I said.
                    
                    "Those are all old maids or school teachers," insisted
                        Speed with Indiana assurance, "or I'll eat my
                        hat."
                    In the midst of our flight Speed would tell stories, tossing them back in the
                        wind and perfumes. Miss H— was singing "There Was an Old
                        Soldier." In no time at all—though not before it was dark—we were
                        entering a region compact of automobiles, gasoline smoke, and half concealed
                        hotel windows and balconies which seemed to clamber up cliffs and disappear
                        into the skies. Below us, under a cliff, ran a railroad, its freight and
                        passenger trains seeming to thunder ominously near. We were, as I could see,
                        high on some embankment or shelf cut in the hill. Presently we turned into a
                        square or open space which opened out at the foot of the hill, and there
                        appeared a huge caravansary, The Kittatinny, with a fountain and basin in
                        the foreground which imitated the colored waters of the Orient. Lackeys were
                        there to take our bags—only, since Miss H— had to make her train, we had to go
                        a mile farther on to the station under the hill. To give Franklin and Miss H—
                        time Speed parked the car somewhere near the station and I went to look for
                        colored picture cards.
                    I wandered off into a region of lesser hotels and stores—the usual clutter of
                        American mountain resort gayety. It brought back to me Tannersville and
                        Haines Corners in the Catskills, Excelsior Springs and the Hot Springs of
                        Virginia and the Ozarks. American summer mountain life is so naive, so
                        gauche, so early Victorian. Nothing could be duller, safer, more commonplace
                        apparently, and yet with such a lilt running through it, than this scene.
                        Here were windows of restaurants or ball rooms or hotel promenades, all
                        opened to the cool mountain air and all gaily lighted. An orchestra was to
                        be heard crooning here and there. The one street was full of idlers, summer
                        cottagers, hotel guests, the natives—promenading. Many electric lamps cast
                        hard shadows provided by the trees. It was all so delightfully cool and
                        fragrant. All these maidens were so bent on making catches, apparently, so
                        earnest to attract attention. They were decked 
                        out in all the fineries and fripperies of the American summer resort scene.
                        I never saw more diaphanous draperies—more frail pinks, blues, yellows,
                        creams. All the brows of all the maidens seemed to be be-ribboned. All the
                        shoulders were flung about with light gauzy shawls. Noses were powdered,
                        lips faintly rouged, perhaps. The air was vibrant with a kind of mating
                        note—or search.
                    "Well, well," I exclaimed, and bought me all the truly
                        indicative postcards I could find.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    AN AMERICAN SUMMER RESORT
                    I HAVE no quarrel with American summer resorts as such—they
                        are as good as any—but I must confess that scenes like this do not move me as
                        they once did. I can well recall the time—and that not so many years ago—when
                        this one would have set me tingling, left me yearning with a voiceless,
                        indescribable pain. Life does such queer things to one. It takes
                        one's utmost passions of five years ago and puts them out like a
                        spent fire. Standing in this almost operatic street, I did my best to
                        contrast my feelings with those of twenty, fifteen and even ten years
                        before. What had come over the spirit of my dreams? Well, twenty years
                        before I knew nothing about love, actually—ten years before I was not
                        satisfied. Was that it? Not exactly—no—I could not say that it was. But now at
                        least these maidens and this somewhat banal stage setting were not to be
                        accepted by me, at least, at the value which unsophistication and youth
                        place on them. The scene was gay and lovely and innocent really. One could
                        feel the wonder of it. But the stagecraft was a little too obvious.
                    Fifteen years before (or even ten) these gauche maidens idling along would
                        have seemed most fascinating. Now the brow bands and diaphanous draperies
                        and pink and blue and green slippers were almost like trite stage
                        properties. Fifteen or twenty years before I would have been ready to
                        exclaim with any of the hundred youths I saw bustling about here, yearning
                        with their eyes: "Oh, my goddess! Oh, my Venus! Oh, my perfect
                        divinity! But deign to cast one encouraging glance upon me, your devoted
                        slave, and I will grovel at your feet. Here is my heart and hand and my most
                        sacred vow—and my  pocket book. I will work for
                        you, slave for you, die for you. Every night for the next two thousand
                        nights of my life, all my life in fact, I will come home regularly from my
                        small job and place all my earnings and hopes and fears in your hands. I
                        will build a house and I will run a store. I will do anything to make you
                        happy. We will have three, seven, nine children. I will spade a garden each
                        spring, bring home a lawnmower and cut the grass. I will prove thoroughly
                        domesticated and never look at another woman."
                    That, in my nonage, was the way I used to feel.
                    And as I looked about me I could see much the same emotions at work here.
                        These young cubs—how enraptured they were; how truly like young puppies with
                        still blinded eyes! The air was redolent of this illusion. That was why the
                        windows and balconies were hung with Japanese lanterns. That was why the
                        orchestras were playing so—divinely! To me now it tanged rather hollowly at
                        moments, like a poor show. I couldn't help seeing that the maidens
                        weren't divinities at all, that most of them, were the dullest,
                        most selfish, most shallow and strawy mannikinesses one could expect to
                        find. Poor little halfequipped actors and actresses.
                    "But even so," I said to myself, "this is the best
                        the master of the show has to offer. He is at most a
                        strolling player of limited equipment. Perhaps elsewhere, in some other part
                        of the universe, there may be a showman who can do better, who has a bigger,
                        better company. But these—"
                    I returned to the hotel and waited for Franklin. We were assigned a
                        comfortable room on the second or third floor, I forget which, down a mile
                        of corridor. Supper in the grill cost us five dollars. The next morning
                        breakfast in the Persian breakfast room cost us three more. But that evening
                        we had the privilege of sitting on a balcony and watching a herd of deer
                        come down to a wire fence and eat grass in the glare of an adjacent arc
                        light. We had the joy of observing the colored fountains (quenched at
                        twelve) and seeing the motoring parties  come
                        tearing up or go flying past, wild with a nameless gayety. In the parlors,
                        the music rooms, the miles of promenade balconies, were hosts of rich mammas
                        and daughters—the former nearly all fat, the latter all promising to be, and
                        a little gross. For the life of me I could not help but think of breweries,
                        distilleries, soap factories, furniture factories, stove companies and the
                        like. Where did all these people come from? Where did they all get the money
                        to stay here weeks and weeks at six, eight, and even fifteen and twenty a
                        day a person? Our poor little six dollar rooms! Good Heavens! Some of them
                        had suites with three baths. Think of all the factories, the purpose of
                        which (aside from supplying the world with washtubs, flatirons, sealing wax,
                        etc.) was to supply these elderly and youthful females with plumpness and
                        fine raiment.
                    While we were in the grill eating our rather late dinner (the Imperial
                        Egyptian dining room was closed), several families strolled in,
                        "pa," in one case, a frail, pale, meditative, speculative
                        little man who seemed about as much at home in his dressy cutaway coat as a
                        sheep would in a lion's skin. He was so very small and fidgety, but
                        had without doubt built up a wholesale grocery or an iron foundry or
                        something of that sort. And "ma" was so short and
                        aggressive, with such firm chin and such steady eyes. "Ma"
                        had supplied "pa" with much of his fighting courage, you
                        could see that. As I looked at "pa" I wondered how many
                        thousand things he had been driven to do to escape her wrath, even to coming
                        up here in August and wearing a cutaway coat and a stiff white shirt and
                        hard cuffs and collars. He did look as though he would prefer some quiet
                        small town veranda and his daily newspaper.
                    And then there was "Cerise" or "Muriel"
                        or "Albertina" (I am sure she had some such name), sitting
                        between her parents and obviously speculating as to her fate. Back at
                        Wilson's Corner there may have been some youth at some time or
                        other who thought her divine and implored  her
                        to look with favor on his suit, but behold "pa" was
                        getting rich and she was not for such as him.
                    "Jus' you let him be," I could hear her mother
                        counseling. "Don't you have anything to do with him.
                        We're getting on and next summer we're going up to the
                        Kittatinny. You're sure to meet somebody there."
                	And so here they were—Cerise dressed in the best that Scranton or Wilkes-Barré
                        or even New York could afford. Such organdies, voiles, swisses, silk crepes—
                        trunks full of them, no doubt! Her plump arms were quite bare, shoulders
                        partly so, her hair done in a novel way, white satin shoes were on her
                        feet—oh dear! oh dear! She looked dull and uninteresting and meaty.
                    But think of Harvey Anstruther Kupfermacher, son of the celebrated trunk
                        manufacturer of Punxsutawney, who will shortly arrive and wed her! If will
                        be a "love match from the first." The papers of Troy,
                        Schenectady, and Utica will be full of it. There will be a grand church
                        wedding. The happy couple will summer in the Adirondacks or the Blue Ridge.
                        If the trunk factory and the iron foundry continue successful some day they
                        may even venture New York.
                    "Wilson's Corner? Well I guess not!"
                    There was another family, the pater familias large and heavy, with big hands,
                        big feet, a bursting pink complexion, and a vociferous grey suit.
                        "Pa" leads his procession. "Ma" is very
                        simple, and daughter is comparatively interesting, and rather sweet.
                        "Pa" is going to show by living at the Kittatinny what it
                        means to work hard and save your money and fight the labor unions and push
                        the little fellow to the wall. "Pa" thinks, actually, that
                        if he gets very rich—richer and richer—somehow he is going to be supremely
                        happy. Money is going to do it. "Yessiree, money can do anything,
                        good old American dollars. Money can build a line house, money can buy a
                        fine auto, money can give one a splendid office desk, money can hire
                        obsequious factotums, money can make everyone pleasant and agreeable. Here I
                        sit," says Pa, "right in the grill room of the Kittatinny.
                        Outside are  colored fountains. My shoes are
                        new. My clothes are of the best. I have an auto. What do I
                        lack?"
                    "Not a thing, Pa," I wanted to answer, "save
                        certain delicacies of perception, which you will never miss."
                    " 'Soul, take thine ease; eat, drink and be
                        merry.' "
                    The next morning we were up bright and early for a long drive. Owing to my
                        bumptiousness in having set aside the regular route of the trip I could see
                        that Franklin was now somewhat depending on me to complete my career as a
                        manager and decide when and where to go. My sole idea was to cut direct
                        through Pennsylvania, but when I consulted a large map which hung on the
                        wall of the baggage room of the Kittatinny I was not so sure. It was about
                        six feet long and two feet high and showed nothing but mountains, mountains,
                        mountains, and no towns, let alone cities of any size. We began to speculate
                        concerning Pennsylvania as a state, but meanwhile I consulted our
                        "Scenic Route" map. This led us but a little way into
                        Pennsylvania before it cut due north to Binghamton, and the socalled
                        "good roads" of New York State. That did not please me at
                        all. At any rate, after consulting with a most discouraging porter who
                        seemed to be sure that there were no good roads in Pennsylvania, I consoled
                        myself with the thought that Wilkes-Barré and Scranton were west of us, and
                        that the "Scenic Route" led through these places. We might
                        go to Wilkes-Barré or Scranton and then consult with the local automobile
                        association, who could give us further information. Quite diplomatically I
                        persuaded Franklin to do that.
                    The difficulty with this plan was that it left us worrying over roads, for,
                        after all, the best machine, as anyone knows who has traveled much by
                        automobiles, is a delicate organism. Given good roads it can seemingly roll
                        on forever at top speed. Enter on a poor one and all the ills that flesh or
                        machinery is heir to seem at once to manifest themselves. A little mud and
                        water and you are in danger of skidding into kingdom come. A few ruts and
                        you feel momentarily as though you were going to be  thrown into high heaven. A bad patch of rocks and holes and you
                        soon discover where all the weak places in your bones and muscles are.
                        Punctures eventuate from nowhere. Blowouts arrive one after another with
                        sickening frequency. The best of engines snort and growl on sharp grades.
                        Going down a steep hill a three-thousand-pound car makes you think
                        always—"My God! what if something should break!" Then a
                        spring may snap, a screw work loose somewhere.
                    But before we left the Water Gap what joys of observation were not mine! This
                        was such an idle tour and such idle atmosphere. There was really no great
                        need for hurry, as we realized once we got started, and I was desirous of
                        taking our time, as was Franklin, though having no wish to stay long
                        anywhere. We breakfasted leisurely while Speed, somewhere, was doctoring up
                        our tires. Then we strolled out into this summer village, seeing the Water
                        Gappers get abroad thus early. The town looked as kempt by day as it did by
                        night. Our fat visitors of heavy purses were still in bed in the great
                        hotels. Instead you saw the small town American busy about his chores; an
                        ancient dame, for instance, in black bonnet and shawl, driving a lean horse
                        and buggy, the latter containing three milk cans all labeled
                        "Sunset Farm Dairy Co."; a humpnosed, thinbodied, angular
                        grocer, or general store keeper, sweeping off his sidewalk and dusting off
                        his counters; various citizens in "vests" and shirt
                        sleeves crossing the heavily oiled roads at various angles and exchanging
                        the customary American morning greetings:
                    "Howdy, Jake?"
                    "Hi, Si, been down t' the barn yet?"
                    "Did Ed get that wrench he was lookin' for?"
                    "Think so, yep."
                    Well, look at old Skeeter Cheevers comin' along, will
                        yuh"—this last apropos of some hobbling septuagenarian with a willow
                        basket.
                    I heaved a kind of sigh of relief. I was out of New  York and back home, as it were—even here at the Delaware River—so
                        near does the west come to the east.
                    Sitting in willow chairs in front of a garage where Speed was looking for a
                        special kind of oil which evidently the more pretentious hotel could not or
                        would not supply, Franklin and I discussed the things we had heard and seen.
                        I think I drew a parallel between this hotel here and similar hotels at
                        Monte Carlo and Nice, where the prices would be no higher, if so high.
                    It so happened that in the morning, when I had been dressing, there had been
                        a knocking at the door of the next room, and listening I had heard a
                        man's voice calling "Ma! Ma! Have you got an undershirt in
                        there for me?"
                    I looked out to see a tall, greyheaded man of sixty or more, very intelligent
                        and very forceful looking, a real American business chief.
                    "Yes," came the answer after a moment. "Wait a
                        minute. I think there's one in Ida's satchel. Is Harry up
                        yet?"
                    "Yes, he's gone out."
                    This was at six A. M. Here stood the American in the pretentious hall, his
                        suspenders down, meekly importuning his wife through the closed door.
                    Imagine this at Nice, or Cannes, or Trouville!
                    And then the lackadaisical store keeper where I bought my postcards.
                    "Need any stamps, cap?" was his genial inquiry.
                    Why the "cap"? An American civility—the equivalent of
                        Mister, Monsieur, Sir,—anything you please.
                    I had of late been reading much magazine sociology of the kind that is
                        labeled "The Menace of Immigration," etc. I was saying to
                        Franklin that I had been fast coming to believe that America, east, west,
                        north, and south, was being overrun by foreigners who were completely
                        changing the American character, the American facial appearance, the
                        American everything. Do you recall the Hans Christian Andersen story of the
                        child who saw the king naked? I was inclined to be that child. I could not
                        see,  from the first hundred miles or so we had
                        traveled, that there was any truth in the assertions of these magazine
                        sociologists. Franklin and I agreed that we could see no change in American
                        character here, or anywhere, though it might be well to look sharply into
                        this matter as we went along. In the cities there were thousands of
                        foreigners, but they were not unamericanlzing the cities, and I was not
                        prepared to believe that they are doing any worse by the small towns.
                        Certainly there was no evidence of it here at the Water Gap. All was almost
                        "offensively American," as an Englishman would say. The
                        "caps," "docs," and
                        "howdys" were as common here as in—Indiana, for instance—so
                        Franklin seemed to think—and he lives in Indiana a goodly part of the year.
                        In the Water Gap and Stroudsburg, and various towns hereabout where, because
                        of the various summer hotels and cottages, one might expect a sprinkling of
                        the foreign element, at least in the capacity of servitors, in the streets
                        and stores, yet they were not even noticeably dotted with them. If all that
                        was American is being wiped out the tide had not yet reached northern New
                        Jersey or eastern Pennsylvania. I began to take heart.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    THE PENNSYLVANIANS
                    AND then there was this matter of Pennsylvania and its
                        rumored poor roads to consider, and the smallness and non-celebrity of its
                        populations, considering the vastness of its territory—all of which consumed
                        at least an hour of words, once we were started. This matter interested us
                        greatly, for now that we had come to think of it we could not recall anyone
                        in American political history or art or science who had come from
                        Pennsylvania. William Penn (a foreigner) occurred to me, Benjamin Franklin
                        and a certain Civil War governor of the name of Cameron, and there I stuck.
                        Certain financial geniuses, as Franklin was quick to point out, had made
                        money there; a Carnegie, Scotchman; Frick, an American; Widener, an
                        American; Dolan, an Irishman; Elkins, and others; although, as we both
                        agreed, America could not be vastly proud of these. The taint of greed or
                        graft seemed to hang heavy in their wake.
                    "But where are the poets, writers, painters?" asked
                        Franklin.
                    I paused. Not a name occurred to me.
                    "What Pennsylvanian ever did anything?" I asked
                    "Here is a state one hundred and sixty miles wide, and more than
                        three hundred miles long from east to west, and with five or six fair-sized
                        cities in it, and not a name!" We tried to explain it on the ground
                        that mountainous countries are never prolific of celebrities, but neither of
                        us seemed to know very much about mountainous countries, and so we finally
                        dropped the subject.
                    But what about Pennsylvania, anyhow? Why hasn't it produced anything
                        in particular? How many millions of men must live and die before a real
                        figure arises? Or do we need figures? Are just men better?
                    
                    The run from the Water Gap to Factoryville was accomplished under varying
                        conditions. The day promised to be fine, a milky, hazy atmosphere which was
                        still warm and bright like an opal. We were all in the best of spirits,
                        Speed whistling gaily to himself as we raced along. Our way led first
                        through a string of small towns set in great hills or mountains—Stroudsburg,
                        Bartonsville, Tannersville, Swiftwater. We were trying to make up, our minds
                        as we rode whether we would cut Wilkes-Barré, since, according to our map, it
                        appeared to be considerably south of a due west course, or whether, because
                        of its repute as a coal center, we would go there. Something, a sense of
                        mountains and picturesque valleys, lured me on. I was for going to
                        Wilkes-Barré if it took us as much as fifty miles out of our course.
                    But meanwhile our enjoyment in seeing Pennsylvania was such that we did not
                        need to worry very much over its lack of human distinction. Everything
                        appeared to be beautiful to such casual travelers. As we climbed and climbed
                        out of the Water Gap, we felt a distinct change between the life of New
                        Jersey and that of this hilly, almost mountainous land. Great slopes rose on
                        either hand. We came upon long stretches of woodland and barren, rocky
                        fields. The country houses from here to Wilkes-Barré, which we finally
                        reached, were by no means so prosperous. Stroudsburg seemed a stringy,
                        mountaintop town, composed principally of summer hotels, facing the
                        principal street, hotels and boarding houses. Bartonsville and Tannersville,
                        both much smaller, were much the same. The air was much lighter here, almost
                        feathery compared to that of the lowlands farther east. But the barns and
                        houses and stock were so poor. At Swift-water, another small town or
                        crossroads, we came to a wood so dense, so deep, so black and even purple in
                        its shades that we exclaimed in surprise. The sun was still shining in its
                        opalescent way, but in here was a wonder of rare darks and solitudes which
                        seemed like the depths of some untenanted cathedral at nightfall. And there
                        was a river or stream somewhere nearby, for stopping the  car. we could hear it tumbling over rough
                        stones. We dismounted, quite spontaneously, and without any "shall
                        we's," and wandered into this bit of forest which was such
                        a splendid natural wonder. Under these heavy cedars and tangled vines all
                        was still, save for the river, and at the foot of trees, in a mulch of rich
                        earth, were growing whole colonies of Indian pipes, those rare fragile,
                        waxylooking orchids. Neither Franklin nor Speed had ever seen any and I
                        aired my knowledge with great gusto. Speed was quite taken aback by the fact
                        that they really looked like pipes with a small fire in their bowls. We sat
                        down—it was too wonderful to leave instantly. I felt that I must come back
                        here some time and camp.
                    It was about here that our second blowout occurred. Back in Stroudsburg,
                        passing through the principal street, I had spied a horseshoe lying in the
                        road—a new shoe—and jumped out to get it as a sign of good luck. For this I
                        was rewarded by an indulgent glance from Franklin and considerable show of
                        sympathetic interest from Speed. The latter obviously shared my belief in
                        horseshoes as omens of good fortune. He promptly hung it over the
                        speedometer, but alas, within the next three-quarters of an hour this first
                        breakdown occurred. Speed was. just saying that now he was sure he would get
                        through safely, and I was smiling comfortably to think that my life was thus
                        charmingly guarded, when "whee!"—have you heard a whistle
                        blowout? It sounds like a spent bullet instead of a revolver shot. Out we
                        climbed to contemplate a large jagged rent in the rim of the tire and the
                        loss of fifteen minutes. This rather dampened my ardor for my omen. Luck
                        signs and omens are rather difficult things at best, for one can really
                        never connect the result with the fact. I have the most disturbing
                        difficulties with my luck signs. A cross-eyed man or boy should mean
                        immediate good luck, but alas, I have seen scores and scores of cross-eyed
                        boys at one time and another and yet my life seemed to go on no better than
                        usual. Crosseyed women should spell immediate disaster, but to my intense
                        satisfaction I am able to report that this does  not seem to be invariably true. Then Franklin and I sat back in the
                        cushions and began to discuss blowouts in general and the mystic power of
                        mind to control such matters—the esoteric or metaphysical knowledge that
                        there is no such thing as evil and that blowouts really cannot occur.
                    This brings me again to Christian Science, which somehow hung over this whole
                        tour, not so much as a religious irritant as a pleasant safeguard. It
                        wasn't religious or obtrusive at all. Franklin, as I have said, is
                        inclined to believe that there is no evil, though he is perfectly willing to
                        admit that the material appearances seem all against that assumption at
                        times.
                    "It's a curious thing," he said to me and Speed,
                        "but that makes the fifth blowout to occur in that particular
                        wheel. All the trouble we have had this spring and summer has been in that
                        particular corner of the wagon. I don't understand it quite. It
                        isn't because we have been using poor tires on that wheel or any
                        other. As a matter of fact I put a set of new Silvertown cord tires on the
                        wheels last May, It's just that particular wheel."
                    He gazed meditatively at the serene hills around us, and I volunteered that
                        it might be "just accident." I could see by
                        Franklin's face that he considered it a lesion in the understanding
                        of truth.
                    "It may be," he said. "Still you'll admit
                        it's a little curious."
                    A little later on we ran on to a wonderful tableland, high up in the
                        mountains, where were a lake, a golf course, a perfect macadam road, and
                        interesting inns and cottages—quite like an ideal suburban section of a great
                        city. As we neared a four corners or railway station center I spied there
                        one of those peculiarly constructed wagons intended originally to haul hay,
                        latterly to convey strawride parties around the country in mountain resorts—a
                        diversion which seems never to lose its charm for the young. This one, or
                        rather three, for there turned out to be three in a row, was surrounded by a
                        great group of young girls, as I thought, all of them in short skirts and
                             with a sort of gymnasium costume which
                        seemed to indicate that they were going out to indulge in outdoor
                        exercises.
                    As we drew nearer we discovered, however, to our astonishment, that a fair
                        proportion were women over forty or fifty. It seemed more like a school with
                        many monitors than a mountain outing.
                    Contemplating this very modern show of arms and legs, I felt that we had come
                        a very long way from the puritanic views of the region in which I had been
                        raised if an inland summer resort permitted this freedom of appearance. In
                        my day the idea of any woman, young or old, save those under fourteen,
                        permitting anything more than their shoe tip and ankles to be seen was not
                        to be thought of. And here were mothers and spinsters of forty and fifty as
                        freely garbed as any bather at a summer resort.
                    Speed and Franklin and myself were fascinated by the spectacle. There was a
                        general store near at hand and Franklin went to buy some chocolate. Speed
                        sat upright at his wheel and curled his mustachios. I leaned back and
                        endeavored to pick out the most beautiful of the younger ones. It was a
                        difficult task. There were many beauties.
                    By this spectacle we were led to discuss for a few moments whether sex—the
                        tendency to greater freedom of relationship between men and women—was taking
                        America or the world in an unsatisfactory direction. There had been so much
                        talk on the subject of late in the newspapers and elsewhere that I could not
                        resist sounding Franklin as to his views. "Are we getting better or
                        worse?" I inquired.
                    "Oh, better," he replied with the air of one who has given
                        the matter a great deal of thought. "I cannot feel that there is
                        any value in repression, or certainly very little. Life as it appeals to me
                        is a flowering out, not a recession. If it is flowering it is becoming
                        richer, fuller, freer. I can see no harm in those girls showing their legs
                        or in peoples' bodies coming into greater and greater  evidence. It seems to me it will make for a
                        kind of natural innocence after a while. The mystery will be taken out of
                        sex and only the natural magnetism left. I never see boys bathing naked in
                        the water but what I wish we could all go naked if the climate would only
                        permit." And then he told me about a group of boys in Carmel whom
                        he had once seen on a rainy day racing naked upon the backs of some horses
                        about a field near their swimming hole, their white, rain-washed bodies
                        under lowering clouds making them look like centaurs and fawns. Personally I
                        follow life, or like to, with a hearty enthusiasm wherever it leads.
                    As we were talking, it began to rain, and we decided to drive on more
                        speedily. A few miles back, after some cogitation at a crossroads, we had
                        decided to take the road to Wilkes-Barré. I shall never feel grateful enough
                        for our decision, though for a time it looked as though we had made a
                        serious mistake. After a time the fine macadam road ended and we took to a
                        poorer and finally a rutty dirt road. The grades became steeper and
                        steeper—more difficult to ascend and descend. In a valley near a bounding
                        stream—Stoddartsville the place was—we had another blowout—or something which
                        caused a flat tire, in the same right rear wheel; and this time in a driving
                        rain. We had to get out and help spread tools in the wet road and hunt leaks
                        in the rubber rim. When this was repaired and the chains put on the wheels
                        we proceeded, up hill and down dale, past miles of apparently tenantless
                        woods and rocky fields—on and on in search of Wilkes-Barré. We had concluded
                        from our maps and some signs that it must be about thirtysix miles farther.
                        As it turned out it was nearly seventy. The roads had a tendency to curve
                        downwards on each side into treacherous hollows, and as I had recently read
                        of an automobile skidding on one of these, overturning and killing three
                        people, I was not very giddy about the prospect. Even with the chains the
                        machine was skidding and our able driver kept his eye fixed on the road. I
                        never saw a man pay more minute  attention to
                        his wheel nor work harder to keep his machine evenly balanced. A good
                        chauffeur is a jewel, and Speed was one.
                    But this ride had other phases than a mere bad road. The clouds were so
                        lowery and the rain so heavy that for a part of the way we had to have the
                        storm curtains on. We could see that it was a wonderful country that we were
                        traversing, deliciously picturesque, but a sopping rain makes one's
                        spirits droop. Franklin sat in his corner and I in mine with scarcely a
                        word. Speed complained at times that we were not making more than four miles
                        an hour. I began to calculate how long it would take to get to Indiana at
                        that rate. Franklin began to wonder if we were not making a mistake trying
                        to cut straight across the poorly equipped state of Pennsylvania.
                    "Perhaps it would have been better after all if we had gone up the
                        Hudson."
                    I felt like a criminal trying to wreck a three thousand dollar car.
                    But beyond a place called Bear Creek things seemed to get better. This was a
                        town in a deep ravine with a railroad and a thundering stream, plunging over
                        a waterfall. The houses were charming. It seemed as if many well-to-do
                        people must live here, for the summer anyhow. But when we asked for food no
                        one seemed to have any. "Better go to Wilkes-Barré,"
                        advised the local inn keeper. "It's only fifteen
                        miles." At four miles an hour we would be there in four hours.
                    Out we started. The rain ceased for a time, though the clouds hung low, and
                        we took up the storm curtains. It was now nearly two o'clock and by
                        three it was plain we were nearing Wilkes-Barré. The roads were better;
                        various railroads running in great cuts came into view. We met miners with
                        bright tin buckets, their faces as black as coal, their caps ornamented with
                        their small lamps. There were troops of foreign women and poorly clad
                        children carrying buckets to or from the mines. Turning a corner of the road
                        we came suddenly upon one of the most entrancing things in the way of a view
                        that I have  ever seen. There are city scapes
                        that seem some to mourn and some to sing. This was one that sang. It
                        reminded me of the pen and ink work of Rops or Vierge or Whistler, the
                        paintings of Turner and Moran. Low hanging clouds, yellowish or black, or
                        silvery like a fish, mingled with a splendid filigree of smoke and chimneys
                        and odd sky lines. Beds of goldenglow ornamented and relieved a group of
                        tasteless low red houses or sheds in the immediate foreground, which
                        obviously sheltered the heavy broods of foreign miners and their wives. The
                        lines of red, white, blue and grey wash, the honking flocks of white geese,
                        the flocks of pigeons overhead, the paint-less black fences protecting
                        orderly truck gardens, as well as the numerous babies playing about, all
                        attested this. As we stood there a group of heavy-hipped women and girls
                        (the stocky peasant type of the Hungarian-Silesian plains) crossed the
                        foreground with their buckets. Immense mounds of coal and slag with glimpses
                        of distant breakers perfected the suggestion of an individual and
                        characterful working world. Anyhow we paused and applauded while Franklin
                        got his sketching board and I sauntered to find more, if any, attractive
                        angles. In the middle distance a tall white skyscraper stood up, a prelude,
                        or a foretouch to a great yellowish black cloud behind it. A rich, smoky,
                        sketchy atmosphere seemed to hang over everything.
                	"Isn't Walkes-Barré wonderful?" I said to Franklin.
                        "Aren't you glad now you've come?"
                    "I am coming down here to paint soon," he said.
                        "This is the most wonderful thing I have seen in a long
                        while."
                	And so we stood on this hillside overlooking Wilkes-Barré for a considerable
                        period while Franklin sketched, and finally, when he had finished and I had
                        wandered a mile down the road to see more, we entered.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    BEAUTIFUL WILKES-BARRÉ
                	MY own interest in Wilkes-Barré and this entire region
                        indeed dated from the great anthracite coal strike in 1902, in my estimation
                        one of the fiercest and best battles between labor and capital ever seen in
                        America. Who does not know the history of it, and the troubles and ills that
                        preceded it? I recall it so keenly—the complaints of the public against the
                        rising price of coal, the rumors of how the Morgans and the Vanderbilts had
                        secured control of all these coal lands (or the railroads that carried their
                        coal for them), and having this latter weapon or club, proceeded to compel
                        the independent coal operators to do their will. How, for instance, they had
                        detained the cars of the latter, taxed them exorbitant carrying charges,
                        frequently declining to haul their coal at all on the ground that they had
                        no cars; how they charged the independent mine operator three times as much
                        for handling his hard coal (the product of the Eastern region) as they did
                        the soft coal men of the west, and when the complained and fought them, took
                        out the spur that led to his mine on the ground that it was
                        unprofitable.
                    Those were great days in the capitalistic struggle for control in America.
                        The sword fish were among the blue fish slaying and the sharks were after
                        the sword fish. Tremendous battles were on, with Morgan and Rockefeller and
                        Harriman and Gould after Morse and Heinze and Hill and the lesser fry. We
                        all saw the end in the panic of 1907, when one multimillionaire, the
                        scapegoat of others no less guilty, went to the penitentiary for fifteen
                        years, and another put a revolver to his bowels and died as do the Japanese.
                        Posterity will long remember 
                        
                            WILKES-BARRE A rich, smoky, sketchy atmosphere
                        
                         this time. It cannot help it. A new land was
                        in the throes of construction, a strange race of men with finance for their
                        weapon were fighting as desperately as ever men fought with sword or cannon.
                        Individual liberty among the masses was being proved the thin dream it has
                        always been.
                    I have found in my book of quotations and labeled for my own comfort
                        "The Great Coal Appeal," a statement written by John
                        Mitchell, then president of the United Mine Workers of America, presenting
                        the miners' side of the case in this great strike of 1902 which was
                        fought out here in Wilkes-Barré, and Scranton and all the country we were now
                        traversing. It was written at the time when the "Coal
                        Barons," as they were called, were riding around in their private
                        cars with curtains drawn to keep out the vulgar gaze and were being wined
                        and dined by governors and presidents, while one hundred and fifty thousand
                        men and boys, all admittedly underpaid, out on strike nearly one hundred and
                        sixty days—a half a year—waited patiently the arbitration of their
                        difficulties. The total duration of the strike was one hundred and
                        sixtythree days. It was a bitter and finally victorious protest against an
                        enlarged and burdensome ton, company houses, company stores, powder at $2.75
                        a keg which anywhere else could be bought for ninety cents or $1.10.
                    The quotation from Mitchell reads:
                    In closing this statement I desire to say that we have
                        entered and are conducting this struggle without malice and without
                        bitterness. We believe that our antagonists are acting upon
                        misrepresentation rather than in bad faith, we regard them not as enemies
                        but as opponents, and we strike in patience until they shall accede to our
                        demands or submit to impartial arbitration the difference between us. We are
                        striking not to show our strength but the justice of our cause, and we
                        desire only the privilege of presenting our case to a fair tribunal. We ask
                        not for favors but for justice and we appeal our case to the solemn judgment
                        of the American people.
                    Here followed a detailed statement of some of the ills  they were compelled to hear and which I have in part enumerated
                        above. And then:
                    Involved in this fight are questions weightier than any question or dollars
                        and cents. The present miner has had his day. He has been oppressed and
                        ground down; but there is another generation coming up, a generation of
                        little children prematurely doomed to the whirl of the mill and the noise
                        and blackness of the breaker. It is for these children that we are fighting.
                        We have not underestimated the strength of our opponents; we have not
                        overestimated our own power of resistance. Accustomed always to live upon a
                        little, a little less is no unendurable hardship. It was with a quaking of
                        hearts that we called for a strike. It was with a quaking of hearts that we
                        asked for our last pay envelopes. But in the grimy, bruised hand of the
                        miner was the little white hand of the child, a child like the children of
                        the rich, and in the heart of the miner was the soul rooted determination to
                        starve to the last crust of bread and fight out the long dreary battle to
                        the end, in order to win a life for the child and secure for it a place in
                        the world in keeping with advancing civilization.
                    Messieurs, I know the strong must rule the weak, the big brain the little
                        one, but why not some small approximation towards equilibrium, just a
                        slightly less heavily loaded table for Dives and a few more crumbs for
                        Lazarus? I beg you—a few more crumbs! You will appear so much more pleasing
                        because of your generosity.
                	Wilkes-Barré proved a city of charm—a city so instinct with a certain
                        constructive verve that merely to enter it was to feel revivified. After our
                        long, dreary drive in the rain the sun was now shining through sultry clouds
                        and it was pleasant to see the welter of thriving foundries and shops, smoky
                        and black, which seemed to sing of prosperity; the long, smooth red brick
                        pavement of the street by which we entered, so very kempt and sanitary; the
                        gay public square, one of the most pleasing small parks I have ever seen,
                        crowded with long distance trolley cars and motors—the former bearing the
                        names of towns as much as a hundred and a hundred and fifty miles away. The
                        stores were bright, the throngs interesting and cheerful. We actually,
                        spontaneously and unanimously exclaimed for joy.
                    
                    Most people seem to have concluded that America is a most uninteresting land
                        to travel in—not nearly so interesting as Europe, or Asia or Africa—and from
                        the point of view of patina, ancient memories, and the presence of great and
                        desolate monuments, they are right. But there is another phase of life which
                        is equally interesting to me and that is the youth of a great country.
                        America, for all its hundreds and some odd years of life, is a mere child as
                        yet, or an uncouth stripling at best—gaunt, illogical, elate. It has so much
                        to do before it can call itself a well organized or historic land, and yet
                        humanly and even architecturally contrasted with Europe, I am not so sure
                        that it has far to go. Contrasted with our mechanical equipment Europe is a
                        child. Show me a country abroad in which you can ride by trolley the
                        distance that New York is from Chicago, or a state as large as Ohio or
                        Indiana—let alone both together—gridironed by comfortable lines, in such a way
                        that you can travel anywhere at almost any time of the night or day. Where
                        but in America can you at random step into a comfortable telephone booth and
                        telephone to any city, even one so far as three thousand miles away; or
                        board a train in almost any direction at any time, which will take you a
                        thousand miles or more without change; or travel, as we did, two hundred
                        miles through a fruitful, prosperous land with wonderful farms and farming
                        machinery and a general air of sound prosperity—even lush richness? For this
                        country in so far as we had traversed it seemed wonderfully prosperous to
                        me, full of airy, comfortable homes, of spirited, genial and even witty
                        people—a really happy people. I take that to be worth something—and a sight to
                        see.
                    In Europe the country life did not always strike me as prosperous, or the
                        people as intelligent, or really free in their souls. In England, for
                        instance, the peasantry were heavy, sad, dull.
                	But Wilkes-Barré gave evidences of a real charm. All the streets about this
                        central heart were thriving marts of trade. The buildings were new,
                        substantial  and with a number of
                        skyscrapers—these inevitable evidences of America's local mercantile
                        ambitions, quite like the cathedrals religionists of the twelfth and
                        thirteenth centuries loved to build. As the Florentines, Venetians and
                        European high mightinesses of the middle ages generally went in for castles,
                        palaces, and "hotels de Ville," so Americans of money
                        today "go in" for high buildings. We love them. We seem to
                        think they are typical of our strength and power. As the Florentines,
                        Venetians, Pisans and Genoese looked on their leaning towers and campaniles,
                        so we on these. When America is old, and its present vigor and life hunger
                        has gone and an alien or degenerate race tramp where once we lived and
                        builded so vigorously, perhaps some visitors from a foreign country will
                        walk here among these ruins and sigh: "Ah, yes. The Americans were
                        a great people. Their cities were so wonderful. These mouldy crumbling
                        skyscrapers, and fallen libraries and post offices and city halls and state
                        capitals!"
                	In Wilkes-Barré it was easy to find a very pretentious restaurant of the
                        "grill" and "rathskeller" type, so
                        familiar and so dear, apparently, to the American heart—a partly underground
                        affair, with the usual heavy Flemish paneling, a colored frieze of knights
                        and goose girls and an immense yellow bill of fare. And here from our
                        waiter, who turned out to be one of those dreadful creatures one sees
                        tearing along country roads in khaki, army boots and goggles—a motor
                        cyclist—we learned there were not good roads west of Wilkes-Barré. He had
                        motorcycled to all places within a hundred or so miles east of
                        here—Philadelphia, Dover, the Water Gap; but he knew of no good roads west.
                        They were all dirt or rubble and full of ruts.
                    Later advice from a man who owned a drug and stationery store, where we laid
                        in a stock of picture postcards, was to the same effect. There were no large
                        towns and no good roads west. He owned a Ford. We should take the road to
                        Binghamton, via Scranton (our original "Scenic Route"),
                        and from there on by various routes 
                        
                            A COAL BREAKER NEAR SCRANTON
                        
                         to Buffalo. We would save time going the long
                        way round. It seemed the only thing to do. Our motorcycling waiter had said
                        as much.
                    By now it was nearly five o'clock. I was so enamored of this town
                        with its brisk world of shoppers and motorists and its sprinkling of black
                        faced miners that I would have been perfectly willing to make a night of it
                        here—but the evening was turning out to be so fine that I could think of
                        nothing better than motoring on and on. That feel of a cool breeze blowing
                        against one, of seeing towns and hills and open fields and humble farm yards
                        go scudding by! Of hearing the tr-r-r-r-r-r of this sound machine! The sun
                        was coming out or at least great patches of blue were appearing in the heavy
                        clouds and we had nineteen miles of splendid road, we understood, straight
                        along the banks of the Susquehanna into Scranton and thence beyond, if we
                        wished. As much as I had come to fancy Wilkes-Barré (I promised myself that I
                        would certainly return some day), I was perfectly willing to go.
                    Right here began the most delightful portion of this trip—indeed one of the
                        most delightful rides I have ever had anywhere. Hitherto the Susquehanna had
                        never been anything much more than a name to me. I now learned that it takes
                        its rise from Otsego Lake in Otsego County, New York, flows west to
                        Binghamton and Owego and thence southeast via Scranton, Wilkes-Barré and
                        Harrisburg to the Chesapeake Bay at Havre de Grace. Going west over the
                        Pennsylvania I had occasionally seen a small portion of it gemmed with rocky
                        islands and tumbling along, thinly bright it seemed to me, over a wide area
                        of stones and boulders. Here at Wilkes-Barré, bordered for a part of the way
                        by a public park, alongside of which our road lay, it was quite sizable,
                        smooth and greenish grey. Perhaps it was due to the recent heavy rains that
                        it was so presentable.
                    At any rate, sentineled by great hills, it seemed to come with gentle
                        windings hither and yon, direct from the north. And the valley through which
                        it moved—how  beautiful it really was! Here and
                    	there, on every hand between Wilkes-Barré and Scranton were to be seen
                        immense breakers with their attendant hills of coal or slag marking the
                        mouths of mines. As we rode out tonight, finding it easy to make five to
                        thirty miles an hour, even through the various mining towns we encountered
                        on the way, we were constantly passing groups of miners, some on foot, some
                        in trolleys, some in that new invention, the jitney bus, which seemed to be
                        employed even on these stretches of road where one would have imagined the
                        street car service was ample. How many long lines of miners'
                        cottages and yellowish frame tenements we passed! I wonder why it is that a
                        certain form of such poverty and work seems to be inseparably identified
                        with yellow or drab paints? So many of these cheap wooden tenements were
                        thus enameled, and then darkened or smudged by grey soot.
                    Many of the dwellers in these hives were to be seen camped upon their
                        thresholds. We ran through one long dreary street—all these towns followed
                        the shores of the river—and had the interest of seeing a runaway horse,
                        drawing a small load of fence posts, dashing toward us and finally swerving
                        and crashing into a tree. Again a group of boys, seeing the New York license
                        tag on our car, hailed us with a disconcerting, "Eh, look at the
                        New York bums!" Still farther on, finding some difficulty with the
                        lamps, Speed drew up by the roadside to attend to them while Franklin made a
                        rough sketch of a heavenly scene that was just below us—great hills, a wide
                        valley, some immense breakers in the foreground, a few clouds tinted pink by
                        the last expiring rays of the day. This was such a sky and such a scene as
                        might prelude a voice from heaven.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    IN AND OUT OF SCRANTON
                    DARKNESS had fallen when we reached Scranton. We
                        approached from the south along a ridge road which skirted the city and
                        could see it lying below to the east and ablaze with arc lights. There is
                        something so appealing about a city in a valley at dark. Although we had no
                        reason for going in—our road lay really straight on—I wanted to go down,
                        because of my old weakness, curiosity, Nothing is more interesting to me
                        than the general spectacle of life itself in these thriving towns of our new
                        land—though they are devoid of anything historic on in the main artistic (no
                        memories even of any great import). I cannot help speculating as to what
                        their future will be. What writers, what statesmen, what arts, what wars may
                        not take their rise in some such place as this?
                    And there are the indefinable and yet sweet ways of just life. We dwellers in
                        big cities are inclined to overlook or forget entirely the half or quarter
                        cities in which thousands upon thousands spend all their lives. For my part,
                        I am never tired of looking at just mills and factories and those long lines
                        of simple streets where just common people, without a touch perhaps of
                        anything that we think of as great or beautiful or dramatic, dwell. I was
                        not particularly pleased with Scranton after I saw it—a sprawling world of
                        perhaps a hundred and fifty or two hundred thousand people without the verve
                        or snap of a half hundred places half its size,—but still here were all these
                        people. it was a warm night and as we descended into commonplace streets we
                        could look through the open windows of homes or
                        "apartments" or "Flats" and see the
                        usual humdrum type of furniture and hangings, the inevitable lace curtains,
                        the centre  tables, the huge, junky lamps, the
                        upright pianos or victrolas. Whenever I see long, artless streets like these
                        in the hot, breathless summer time, I feel a wave of commiseration sweep
                        over me, and yet I am drawn to them by something which makes me want to live
                        among these people.
                    Oh, to escape endless cogitation! To feel that a new centre table or a new
                        lamp or a new pair of shoes in the autumn might add something to my
                        happiness! To believe that mere eating and drinking, the cooking of meals,
                        the prospect of promotion in some small job might take away the misery of
                        life, and so to escape chemistry and physics and the horror of ultimate
                        brutal law! "In the streets of Ur," says an old Chaldean
                        chronicle, "the women were weeping for that Bel was dead."
                        Bel was their Christ and they were weeping as some people weep on Good
                        Friday to this day. Such women one might find here in Scranton, no doubt;
                        believers in old tales of old things. After five or six thousand years there
                        is still weeping in simple streets over myths as vain!
                    Once down in the heart of Scranton, I did not care for it at all. It was so
                        customary—an American city like Utica or Syracuse or Rochester or Buffalo—and
                        American cities of the hundred thousand class are so much alike. They all
                        have the long principal street—possibly a mile long. They all have the one or
                        two skyscrapers and the principal dry goods store and the hotel and the new
                        post office building and the new Carnegie library and sometimes the new
                        court house (if it's a county seat), or the new city hall.
                        Sometimes these structures are very charming in themselves—tastefully done
                        and all that—but most American cities of this class have no more imagination
                        than an owl. They never think of doing an original thing.
                    Do you think they would allow the natural configuration of their land or any
                        river front, or lake, or water of any kind to do anything for them? Not at
                        all. It's the rarest exception when, as at Wilkes-Barré for
                        instance,  a city will take the slightest
                        sthetic advantage of any natural configuration of land or water.
                    What! put a park or esplanade or a wall along a handsome river bank in the
                        heart of the town! Impossible. Put it far out in the residence section where
                        it truly belongs and let the river go hang. Isn't the centre of a
                        city for business? What right has a park there?
                    Or perhaps it is a great lake front as at Buffalo or Cleveland, which could
                        or should be made into something splendid—the municipal centre, for instance,
                        or the site of a great park. No. Instead the city will bend all its energies
                        to growing away from it and leave it to shabby factories and warehouses and
                        tumble-down houses, while it constructs immense parks in some region where a
                        park could never possibly have as much charm as on the water front.
                    Take the City of St. Louis as a case in point. Here is a metropolis which has
                        a naturally fascinating water front along the Mississippi. Here is a stream
                        that is quite wonderful to look at—broad and deep. Years ago, when St. Louis
                        was small and river traffic was important, all the stores were facing this
                        river. Later railroads came and the town built west. Today blocks and blocks
                        of the most interesting property in the city is devoted to dead-alive
                        stores, warehouses and tenements. It would be an easy matter and a
                        profitable one for the city to condemn sufficient property to make a
                        splendid drive along this river and give the city a real air. It would
                        transform it instantly into a kind of wonder world which thousands would
                        travel a long way to see. It would provide sites for splendid hotels and
                        restaurants and give the city a suitable front door or facade.
                    But do you think this would ever be seriously contemplated? It would cost
                        money. One had better build a park away from the river where there are no
                        old houses. The mere thought of trading the old houses for a wonderful scene
                        which would add beauty and life to the city is too much of a stretch of the
                        imagination for St. Louisians to accomplish. It can't be done.
                        American  cities are not given to imagination
                        outside the walks of trade.
                    Scranton was no worse than many another American city of the same size and
                        class that I have seen—or indeed than many of the newer European cities. It
                        was well paved, well lighted and dull. There were the usual traffic
                        policemen (like New York, b'gosh!), but with no traffic to guide,
                        the one hotel designed to impress, the civic square surrounded by rows of
                        thickly placed fivelamp standards. It was presentable, and, because Speed
                        wanted to get oil and gasoline and we wanted to see what the town was like,
                        we ran the machine into a garage and wandered forth, looking into shoe and
                        bookstore windows and studying the people.
                    Here again I could see no evidence of that transformation of the American by
                        the foreigner into something different from what he has eyer been—the peril
                        which has been so much discussed by our college going sociologists. On the
                        contrary,-America seemed to me to be making over the foreigner into its own
                        image and likeness. I learned here that there were thousands of Poles,
                        Czechs, Croatians, Silesians, Hungarians, etc., working here in the coal
                        mines and at Wilkes-Barré, but the young men on the streets and in the stores
                        were Americans. Here were the American electric signs in great profusion,
                        the American bookstores and newsstands crowded with all that mushy adventure
                        fiction of which our lady critics are so fond. Five hundred magazines and
                        weekly publications blazed the faces of alleged pretty girls. "The
                        automat," the "dairy kitchen," the
                        "Boston," "Milwaukee" or
                        "Chicago" lunch, and all the smart haberdasheries so
                        beloved of the ambitious American youth, were in full bloom. I saw at least
                        a half dozen moving-picture theatres in as many blocks—and business and
                        correspondence schools in ample array.
                    What becomes of all the young Poles, Czechs, Croatiaris, Serbians, etc., who
                        are going to destroy us? I'll tell you. They gather on the street
                        corners when their parents will permit them, arrayed in yellow or red ties,
                             yellow shoes, dinky fedoras or beribboned
                        straw hats and "style-plus" clothes, and talk about
                        "when I was out to Dreamland the other night," or make
                        some such observation as "Say, you should have seen the beaut that
                        cut across here just now. Oh, mamma, some baby!" That's
                        all the menace there is to the foreign invasion. Whatever their original
                        intentions may be, they can't resist the American yellow shoe, the
                        American moving picture, "Stein-Koop" clothes,
                        "Dreamland," the popular song, the automobile, the jitney.
                        They are completely undone by our perfections. Instead of throwing bombs or
                        lowering our social level, all bogies of the sociologist, they would rather
                        stand on our street corners, go to the nearest moving pictures, smoke
                        cigarettes, wear high white collars and braided yellow vests and yearn over
                        the girls who know exactly how to handle them, or work to some day own an
                        automobile and break the speed laws. They are really not so bad as we seem
                        to want them to be. They are simple, gauche, de jeune, "the
                        limit." In other words, they are fast becoming Americans.
                    I think it was during this evening at Scranton that it first dawned on me
                        what an agency for the transmission of information and a certain kind of
                        railway station gossip the modern garage has become. In the old days, when
                        railroads were new or the post road was still in force, the depot or the inn
                        was always the centre for a kind of gay travelers' atmosphere or
                        way station exchange for gossip, where strangers alighted, refreshed
                        themselves and did a little talking to pass the time. Today the garage has
                        become a third and even more notable agency for this sort of exchange,
                        automobile travelers being for the most part a genial company and constantly
                        reaching out for information. Anyone who knows anything about the roads of
                        his native town and country is always in demand, for he can fall into long
                        conversation with chauffeurs or tourists in general, who will occasionally
                        close the conversation with an offer of a 
                        drink or a cigar, or, if he is going in their direction, take him for a part
                        of the way at least as a guide.
                    Having found Scranton so dull that we could not make up our minds to remain
                        overnight, we returned to the garage we were patronizing and found it
                        crowded to the doors with cars of all descriptions and constantly being
                        invaded by some others in search of something. Here were a group of those
                        typical American hangerson or loafers or city gossips or chair warmers—one
                        scarcely knows what to call them—who, like the Roman frequenters of the Forum
                        or the Greek "sitters at the place of customs," gather to
                        pass the time by watching the activity and the enthusiasm of others.
                        Personally my heart rather yearns over that peculiar temperament, common
                        enough to all the abodes of men, which for lack of spirit or strength or
                        opportunity in itself to get up and do, is still so moved by the spectacle
                        of life that it longs to be where others are doing. Here they were, seven or
                        eight of them, leaning against handsome machines, talking, gesticulating and
                        proffering information, to all and sundry who would have it. Owing to the
                        assertion of the proprietor's helper (who was eager, naturally
                        enough, to have the car housed here for the night, as he would get a dollar
                        for it) that the roads were bad between here and Binghamton, a distance of
                        sixtynine miles, we were a little uncertain whether to go on or no. But this
                        charge of a dollar was an irritation, for in most garages, as Speed informed
                        us, the night charge was only fifty cents. Besides, the same youth was
                        foolish enough to confess, after Speed questioned him, that the regular
                        charge to local patrons was only fifty cents.
                    Something in the youth's description of the difficulties of the road
                        between here and Binghamton caused me to feel that he was certainly laying
                        it on a little thick. According to him, there had been terrible rains in the
                        last few weeks. The road in spots was all but impassable. There were great
                        hills, impossible ravines, and deadly railroad crossings. I am not so much
                        of an enthusiast for night riding as to want to go in the face 
                        
                            FRANKLIN STUDIES AN OBLITERATED SIGN
                        
                         of difficulties—indeed I would much rather ride
                        by day, when the beauties of the landscape can be seen,—still this attempt to
                        frighten us irritated me.
                    And then the hangers-on joined in. Obviously they were friends of the owner
                        and, like a Greek chorus, were brought on at critical moments to emphasize
                        the tragedy or the terror or the joy, as the case might be. Instantly we
                        were assailed with new exaggerations—there were dreadful, unguarded railway
                        crossings, a number of robberies had been committed recently, one bridge
                        somewhere was weak.
                    This finished me.
                    "They are just talking to get that dollar," I whispered to
                        Franklin.
                    "Sure," he replied; "it's as plain as
                        anything. I think we might as well go on."
                    "By all means," I urged. "We've climbed
                        higher hills and traversed worse or as bad roads today as we will anywhere
                        else. I don't like Scranton very well anyhow."
                    My opposition was complete. Speed looked a little tired and I think would
                        have preferred to stay. But my feeling was that at least we could, run on to
                        some small inn or country town hotel where the air would be fresher and the
                        noises less offensive. After a long year spent in the heart of New York, I
                        was sick of the city—any city.
                    So we climbed in and were off again.
                    It was not so long after dark. The road lay north, through summery crowded
                        streets for a time and then out under the stars. A cool wind was blowing.
                        One old working man whom we had met and of whom we had asked the way had
                        given us something to jest over.
                    "Which way to Dalton?" we called. This was the next town on
                        our road.
                    "Over the viderdock," he replied, with a wave of his arm,
                        and thereafter all viaducts became "viderdocks" for us. We
                        sank into the deep leather cushions and, encountering no bad roads, went
                        comfortably on. The  trees in places hung low
                        and seemed to make arched green arbors through which we were speeding, so
                        powerful were our lamps. At one place we came upon a brilliantly lighted
                        amusement resort and there we could not resist stopping. There was music and
                        dancing and all the young clerks and beaus for miles around were here with
                        their girls. I was so entranced that I wanted to stay on, hoping that some
                        young girl might talk to me, but not one gave me even so much as a smile.
                        Then we came to a country inn—an enticing looking thing among great trees—but
                        we were awake now, enjoying the ride, and Speed was smoking a cigarette—why
                        quit now? So on and on, up hills and down dale, and now and then we seemed
                        to be skirting the Susquehanna. At other times we seemed to be off in side
                        hills where there were no towns of any size. A railroad train came into view
                        and disappeared; a trolley track joined us and disappeared; a toll road made
                        us pay fifteen cents—and disappeared. At last as it neared unto midnight I
                        began to get sleepy and then I argued that, whatever town came next, we
                        should pause there for the night.
                    "All right," said Franklin genially, and then more aisles
                        and more streams and more stores—and then in the distance some manufactories
                        came into view, brightly lighted windows reflected in some water.
                    Here we are," I sighed sleepily, but we weren't, not quite.
                        This was a crossroad somewhere—a dividing of the ways—but the readable signs
                        to say which way were not visible. We got out and struck matches to make the
                        words more intelligible. They had been obliterated by rust. I saw a light in
                        a house and went there. A tall, spare man of fifty came out on the porch and
                        directed us. This was Factoryville or near it, he said—another mile on we
                        would find an inn. We were something like twentyfive miles from Scranton. If
                        you stop and look at electric parks and watch the dancers, you
                        can't expect to make very good time. In Factoryville, as dark and
                        silent as a small sleeping town may be,  we
                        found one light—or Franklin did—and behind it the village barber reading a
                        novel. In the shadow of his doorway Franklin entered into a long and
                        intimate discussion with him—about heaven only knows what. I had already
                        noted of Franklin that he could take up more time securing seeming
                        information than any human being I had ever known. It was astounding how he
                        could stand and gossip, coming back finally with such a simple statement as,
                        "He says turn to the right," or "We go
                        north." But why a week to discover this, I used to think. Finally,
                        almost arm in arm with the barber, they disappeared around a corner. A weary
                        string of moments rolled past before Franklin strolled back to say there was
                        no real inn—no hotel that had a license—but there was a man who kept a
                        "kind of a hotel" and he had a barn or shed, which would
                        do as a garage.
                    "Better stay, eh.?" he suggested.
                    "Well, rather," I answered.
                    When we had unslung our bags and coats, Speed took the car to the barn in the
                        rear and up we went into a typical American papier mch room. The least step,
                        the least movement, and wooden floors and partitions seemed to shout. But
                        there were two large rooms with three beds and, what was more, a porch with
                        a wooden swing. There was a large porcelain bath in a room at the rear and
                        pictures of all the proprietor's relatives done in crayon.
                    How we slept! There were plenty of windows, with a fresh breeze blowing and
                        no noises, except some katydids, sawing lustily. I caught the perfume of
                        country woods and fields and, afar off, as I stretched on an easy bed, I
                        could hear a train whistling and rumbling faintly—that far off
                        Ooh!—ooh!—oo!—oo!
                    I lay there thinking what a fine thing it was to motor in this haphazard
                        fashion—how pleasant it was not to know where you were going or where you
                        would be tomorrow, exactly. Franklin's car was so good, Speed so
                        careful. Then I seemed to be borne somewhere on  great wings, until the dawn coming in at the window awakened me. The
                        birds were singing.
                    "Oh, yes, Factoryville," I sighed.
                        "That's where we are. We're motoring to
                        Indiana."
                    And I turned over and slept another hour.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    A LITTLE AMERICAN TOWN
                    FACTORYVILLE, as we found this morning, was one of these
                        very small places which, to one weary of metropolitan life, occasionally
                        prove entertaining through an extreme simplicity and a sense of rest and
                        peace. It was, as I saw sitting in my dressing gown in our convenient wooden
                        swing, a mere collection of white cottages with large lawns or country yard
                        spaces and flowers in profusion and a few stores. Dr. A. B. Fitch. Druggist
                        (I could see this sign on the window before which he stood), was over the
                        way sweeping off the sidewalk in front of his store. I knew it was Dr. A. B.
                        Fitch by his solemn proprietary air, his alpaca coat, his serious growth of
                        thick grey whiskers. He was hatless and serene. I could almost hear him
                        saying: "Now, Annie, you tell your mother that this medicine is to
                        be taken one teaspoonful every three hours, do you hear?"
                    Farther down the street H. B. Wendel, hardware dealer, was setting out a
                        small red and green lawnmower and some zinc cans capable of holding anything
                        from rain water to garbage. This was his inducement to people to come and
                        buy. Although it was still very early, citizens were making their way down
                        the street, a working man or two, going to some distant factory not in
                        Factoryville, a woman in a gingham poke bonnet standing at a corner of her
                        small white home examining her flowers, a small barefooted boy kicking the
                        damp dust of the road with his toes. It reminded me of the time when, as a
                        youth in a similar town, I used to get up early and see my mother browsing
                        over early, dewladen blossoms. I was for staying in Factoryvilly for some
                        time.
                    
                    But Franklin, energetic soul, would have none of it. He had lived in a small
                        town or on a farm for the greater part of his life and, unlike me, had never
                        really deserted the country. Inside the room, on the balcony of which I was
                        already swinging and idly musing, he was industriously shaving—a task I was
                        reserving for some city barber. Presently he came out and sat down.
                    "Isn't it wonderful—the country!" I said.
                        "This town! See old Dr. Fitch over there, and that grocery man
                        putting out his goods."
                    "Yes!" replied Franklin. "Carmel is very much like
                        this. There's no particular life there. A little smalltown trading.
                        Of course, Indianapolis has come so near now that they can all go down there
                        by trolley, and that makes a difference."
                    Forthwith he launched into amusing tales of Carmelite character—bits too idle
                        or too profane to be narrated here. One only I remember—that of some yokels
                        who were compelled to find a new hangout because the old building they
                        frequented was torn down. When Franklin encountered them in the new place he
                        said quite innocently: "This place hasn't as much
                        atmosphere as the old one." "Oh, yes, it has,"
                        rejoined the rural. "When you open the back windows."
                    Speed was shaving too by now, inside, and, hearing me sing the delights of
                        rural life (windows and doors were open), he put in:
                    "Yes, that's all well enough, but after you'd
                        lived here awhile you mightn't like it so much. Gee! people in the
                        country aren't any different from people anywhere
                        else."
                    Speed had a peculiarly pained and even frightened look on his face at times,
                        like a cloud passing over a landscape or something that made me want to put
                        my hand on his shoulder and say, "There, there." I
                        wondered sometimes whether he had often been hungry or thrown out of job or
                        put upon in some unkind way. He could seem momentarily so pathetic.
                    "I know, I know," I said gaily, "but there are the
                             cows and the trees and the little flower
                        gardens and the farmers mowing hay and—"
                    "Huh!" was all he deigned to reply, as he shaved. Franklin,
                        in his large tolerance of vagaries and mush, did not condescend to comment.
                        I did not even win a smile. He was looking at the drugstore and the hardware
                        store and an old man in a shapeless, baggy suit hobbling along on a
                        cane.
                    "I like the country myself," he said finally,
                        "except I wouldn't want to have to farm for a
                        living."
                    I could not help thinking of all the days we (I am referring to a part of our
                        family) had lived in these small towns and how as a boy 1 used to wish and
                        wish for so many things. The long trains going through! The people who went
                        to Chicago, or Evansville, or Terre Haute, or Indianapolis! A place like
                        Brazil, Indiana, a mere shabby coal town of three or four thousand
                        population, seemed something wonderful. All the world was outside and I,
                        sitting on our porch—front or back—or on the grass or under a tree, all alone,
                        used to wonder and wonder. When would I go out into the world? Where would I
                        go? What would I do? What see? And then sometimes the thought of my father
                        and mother not being near any more—my mother being dead, perhaps—and my
                        sisters and brothers scattered far and wide, and—I confess a little sadly
                        even now—a lump would swell in my throat and I would be ready to cry.
                    A sentimentalist?
                    Indeed!
                    In a little while we were called to breakfast in a lovely, homely diningroom
                        such as country hotels sometimes boast—a diningroom of an indescribable
                        artlessness and crudity. It was so haphazard, so slung together of old
                        yellow factory made furniture, chrormos, lithographs, flychasers, five jar
                        castors, ironstone "china," and heaven only knows what
                        else, that it was delightful. It was clean, yes; and sweet withal—very—just
                        like so many of our honest, frank, kindly psalm singing Methodists and
                        Baptists are. The father and mother were 
                        eating their breakfast here, at one table. The little fair haired hired
                        girl—with no more qualification as a waitress than a Thibetan Llama—was
                        waiting on table. The traveling men, one or two of them at every breakfast
                        no doubt, were eating their fried ham and eggs or their fried steak, and
                        their fried potatoes, and drinking unbelievable coffee or tea.
                    Dear, crude, asinine, illusioned Americans! How I love them! And the great
                        fields from the Atlantic to the Pacific holding them all, and their dreams!
                        How they rise; how they hurry, how they run under the sun! Here they are
                        building a viaduct, there a great road, yonder plowing fields or sowing
                        grain, their faces lit with eternal, futile hope of happiness. You can see
                        them religiously tending store, religiously running a small-town country
                        hotel, religiously mowing the grass, religiously driving shrewd bargains or
                        thinking that much praying will carry them to heaven—the dear things!—and then
                        among them are the bad men, the loafers, the people who chew tobacco and
                        swear and go to the cities Saturday nights and "cut up"
                        and don't save their money!
                    Dear, dear, darling Yankee land—"my country tis"—when I think
                        of you and all your ills and all your dreams and all your courage and your
                        faith—I could cry over you, wringing my hands.
                    But you, you great men of brains—you plotters of treason, of taxes which are
                        not honest, of burdens too heavy to be borne, beware! These be simple souls,
                        my countrymen singing simple songs in childish ignorance and peace, dreaming
                        sweet dreams of life and love and hope. Don't awake them! Let them
                        not once suspect, let them not faintly glimpse the great tricks and
                        subterfuges by which they are led and harlequined and cheated; let them not
                        know that their faith is nothing, their hope nothing, their love nothing—or
                        you may see the bonfires of wrath, alight—in the "evening dews and
                        damp," the camps of the hungry—the lifting aloft of the fatal
                        stripes—red for blood and white for spirit  and
                        blue for dreams of man; the white drawn faces of earnest seeking souls
                        carrying the symbols of their desire, the guns and mortars and shells of
                        their dreams!
                    Remember Valley Forge! Remember Germantown; remember the Wilderness; remember
                        Lookout Mountain! These will not be disappointed. Their faith is too
                        deep—their hope too high. They will burn and slay, but the fires of their
                        dreams will bring other dreams to make this old illusion seem true.
                    It can hardly be said that America has developed a culinary art, because so
                        many phases of our cooking are not, as yet, common to all parts of the
                        country. In the southeast south you have fried chicken and gravy, cornpone,
                        corn pudding, biscuit, and Virginia ham, southern style; in the southwest
                        south you have broilers, chicken tamales, chile con carne, and all the
                        nuances acquired from a proximity to Mexico. In New England one encounters
                        the baked bean, the cold biscuit, pie for breakfast, and
                        codfish cakes. In the great hotels and best restaurants of the large cities,
                        especially in the east, the French cuisine dominates. In the smaller cities
                        of the east and west, where no French chef would deign to waste his days,
                        German, Italian and Greek—to say nothing of Jewish—and purely American
                        restaurants (the dairy kitchen, for example) now contest with each other for
                        patronage. We have never developed a single, dominating system of our own.
                        The American "grill" or its companion in dullness, the
                        American "rathskeller," boast a mixture of everything and
                        are not really anything. In all cities large and small may be found these
                        horrible concoctions which in their superficial treatment are supposed to be
                        Flemish or Elizabethan or old German combined with the worse imaginings of
                        the socalled mission school of furniture. Here. German pancakes, knackwurst
                        and cheesecake come cheek by jowl with American biscuit, English muffins,
                        French rolls, Hungarian goulash, chicken à la Maryland, steaks, chops, and ham
                        and eggs. It's serviceable, and yet it's offensive.
                    
                    The atmosphere is deadly—the idea atrocious. By comparison with a French inn
                        or a German family restaurant such as one finds in Frankfort or Berlin, or
                        even an English chophouse, it is unbelievably bad. Yet it seems to suit the
                        present day spirit of America.
                    All restaurant forms are being tried out—French, Greek, Italian, Turkish,
                        English, Spanish, German—to say nothing of teahouses of all lands. In the
                        long run possibly some one school will become dominant or a compromise among
                        them all. By that time American cooking will have become a complex of all
                        the others. I sincerely trust that in the internecine struggle fried
                        chicken, gravy, fresh hot biscuit, blackberry pie and fried mush do not
                        wholly disappear. I am fond of French cooking and have a profound respect
                        for the German art—but there! Supposing that never anywhere, any more, was
                        there to be any fried mush or blackberry pie!!!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    THE MAGIC OF THE ROAD AND SOME TALES
                    OUR particular breakfast consisted of a choice of several
                        "flake" breakfast foods, a hard fried chop, an egg or two,
                        fried, some German fried potatoes, and all done as an American small town
                        hotelkeeper used to dealing with farmers and storekeepers and
                        "hands" would imagine they ought to be done. Where did the
                        average American first get the idea that meals of nearly all kinds need to
                        be fried hard? Or that tea has to be made so, strong that
                        it looks black and tastes like weeds? Or that German fried potatoes ought to
                        be soggy and that all people prefer German fried potatoes?
                        If you should ask for French fried potatoes or potatoes au
                            gratin or potatoes O'Brien in a small country town hotel
                        you would be greeted with a look of uncertainty if not of resentment. French
                        fried potatoes, pray—or meat medium or broiled? Impossible! And as for weak,
                        clear, tasteful tea—shades of Buffalo Bill and Davy Crockett!
                        "Whoever heard of weak, clear tea? The man has gone mad. He is some
                        'city fellow,' bent on showing off. It is up to us to
                        teach him not to get smart. We must frown and delay and show that we do not
                        approve of him at all."
                    While we were eating, I was thinking where our car would take us this day,
                        and the anticipation of new fields and strange scenes was enough to make a
                        mere poor breakfast a very trivial matter indeed. Clouds and high hills, and
                        spinning along the bank of some winding stream, were an ample exchange for
                        any temporary inconvenience. After breakfast and while Franklin and I once
                        more tightened up our belongings, Speed brought about the machine and in the
                        presence of a few residents—
                    	 a young girl of
                        fifteen for one, who looked at us with wide, wishful eyes—we strapped on the
                        bags and took our seats. I could not help feeling as I looked at some of
                        them who observed us that they were wishing they were in our places. The car
                        was good to look at. It was quite obvious from the various bags and wraps
                        that we were en route somewhere. Someone was always asking us where we were
                        from and where we were going—questions which the magic name of New York,
                        particularly this distance away, seemed to make all the more significant.
                        The night before in the garage at Scranton a youth, hearing us say that we
                        were from there, had observed with an air: "How is old New York
                        anyway?" And then, with a flourish: "I'll have to
                        be going over there pretty soon now. I haven't been over in some
                        time."
                    Leaving Factoryville, we ran through country so beautiful that before long I
                        regretted sincerely that we had done any traveling after dark the night
                        before. We were making our way up a wide valley as I could see, the same
                        green Susquehanna Valley, between high hills and through a region given over
                        entirely to dairy farming. The hills looked as though they were bedded knee
                        deep in rich, succulent grass. Groups of black and white Holstein cattle
                        were everywhere to be seen. Some of the hills were laid out in checkerboard
                        fashion by fields of grain or hay or buckwheat or great thick groves of
                        trees. Before many a farm dooryard was a platform on which stood a milk can,
                        or two or three: now and then a neighborhood creamery would come into view,
                        where the local milk was churned wholesale and butter prepared and shipped.
                        The towns for the most part were rarely factory towns, looking more as if
                        they harbored summer boarders or were but now starting on a manufacturing
                        career. Girls or women were reading or sewing on porches. The region of the
                        mines was far behind.
                    And what a day! The everchanging panorama—how wonderful it was! Tr-r-r-r-r-r
                        and we were descending  a steep hill, at the
                        bottom of which lay a railroad track (one of those against which we had been
                        warned, no doubt), and in the distance more great hills, sentineling this
                        wide valley; the road showing like a white thread, miles and miles away.
                    Tr-r-r-r-r-r, and now we were passing a prosperous farmyard, aglow with
                        strident flowers, one woman sewing at a window, others talking with a
                        neighbor at the door. Tr-r-r-r-r-r, here we were swinging around a sharp
                        curve, over an iron bridge, noisy and shaky and beneath which ran a
                        turbulent stream, and in the immediate foreground was an old mill or a
                        barnyard alive with cattle and poultry. I had just time to think,
                        "What if we should crash through this bridge into the stream
                        below," when T-r-r-r-r-r-r, and now came a small factory or foundry
                        section with tall smokestacks, and beyond it a fairsized town, clean,
                        healthy, industrious. No tradition, you see, anywhere. No monuments or
                        cathedrals or great hotels or any historic scene anywhere to look forward
                        to: but Tr-r-r-r-r-r and here we are at the farther outskirts of this same
                        small town with more green fields in the distance, the scuff and scar of
                        manufacturing gone and only the blue sky and endless green fields and some
                        birds flying and a farmer cutting his grain with a great reaper.
                        Tr-r-r-r-r-r—how the miles do fly past, to be sure!
                    And T-r-r-r-r-r-r (these motors are surely tireless things), here is a lake
                        now, just showing through the tall, straight trunks of trees, a silvery
                        flash with a grey icehouse in the distance; and then, Tr-r-r-r-r-r, a thick
                        green wall of woods, so rich and dark, from which pour the sweetest,
                        richest, most invigorating odors and into the depth of which the glance
                        sinks only to find cooler and darker shadows and even ultimate shadow or a
                        green blackness; and then—Tr-r-r-r-r—a line of small white cottages facing a
                        stream and a boy scuffing his toes in the warm, golden dust—oh, happy
                        boyland!—and then, Tr-r-r-r-r—but why go on? It was all beautiful. It was all
                        so refreshing. It was all like a song—only—Tr-r-r-r-r—  and here comes another great wide spreading view, which
                        Franklin wishes to sketch. He has a large pad of some peculiarly white
                        porous paper, on which he works and from which he tears the sketches when
                        they are done and deposits them in a convenient portfolio. By now Speed has
                        become resigned to not getting to Indiana as fast as he
                        would like.
                    "Shucks!" I heard him say once, as he was oiling up his
                        engine, "if we didn't have to stop this way every few
                        minutes, we'd soon get into Indiana. Give me half way decent roads
                        and this little old motor will eat up the miles as good as anyone. . .
                        ." But when you have two loons aboard who are forever calling
                        "Whoa!" and jumping up or out or both and exclaiming,
                        "Well now, what do you think of that?—Isn't it
                        beautiful?"—what are you going to do? No real chauffeur can get
                        anywhere that way—you know that.
                    Here we were now backing the machine in the shade of a barn while Franklin
                        fixed himself on the edge of a grey, lichen covered wall and I strolled off
                        down a steep hill to get a better view of a railroad which here ran through
                        a granite gorge. Perhaps Franklin worked as many as thirty or forty minutes.
                        Perhaps I investigated even longer. There was a field on this slope with a
                        fine spring on it. I had to speculate on what a fine pool could be made
                        here. In the distance some horizon clouds made a procession like ships. I
                        had to look at those. The spear pines here at the edge of this field were
                        very beautiful and reminded me of the cypresses of Italy. I had to speculate
                        as to the difference. Then Tr-r-r-r-r-r, and we were on again at about
                        thirtyfive miles an hour.
                    While we were riding across this country in the bright morning sunshine,
                        Speed fell into a reminiscent or tale-telling mood. Countrymen born have
                        this trait at times and Speed was country bred. He began, as I had already
                        found was his way, without any particular announcement, or a
                        "Didjah ever hear of the old fellow," etc., and then he
                        would be off on a series of yarns the exact flavor and charm of which I
                        cannot hope to  transcribe, but some of which I
                        nevertheless feel I must paraphrase as best I may.
                    Thus one of his stories concerned a wedding somewhere in the country. All the
                        neighbors had been invited and the preacher and the justice of the peace.
                        The women were all in the house picking wool for a pastime. The men were all
                        out at the edge of the woods around a log heap they had built, telling
                        stories. The bride-to-be was all washed and starched and her hair done up
                        for once, and she was picking wool, too. When the fatal moment came the
                        preacher and the prospective husband came in, followed by all the men, and
                        the two stood in the proper position for a wedding before the fireplace; but
                        the girl never moved. She just called, "Go on; it'll be
                        all right." So the preacher read or spoke the ceremony, and when it
                        came to the place where he asked her, "Do you take this man to be
                        your lawful wedded husband, etc.," she stopped, took a chew of
                        tobacco out of her mouth, threw it in the fire, expectorated in the same
                        direction, and said, "I reckon." Then she went on working
                        again.
                    Another of these yarns concerned the resurveying of the county line between
                        Brown and Monroe counties in Indiana which a little while before had been
                        moved west about two hundred and fifty yards. That put the house of an old
                        Brown County farmer about ten yards over the Monroe County line. A part of
                        Monroe County in this region was swampy and famous for chills and fever—or
                        infamous. When the old farmer came home that night his wife met him at the
                        gate and said: 'Now we just got tuh move, paw; that's all
                        there is to it. I'm not goin' to live over there in Monroe
                        with all these here swamps. We'll all die with chills and yuh know
                        it."
                    Fishing was great sport in some county in Indiana—I forget which. They
                        organized fishing parties, sometimes thirty or forty in a drove, and went
                        fishing, camping out for, two or three days at a time, only they
                        weren't so  strong for hooks and
                        lines, except for the mere sport of it. To be sure of having enough fish to
                        go 'round, they always took a few sticks of dynamite and toward
                        evening or noon someone would light a fuse and attach it to a stick of
                        dynamite and, just as it was getting near the danger line, throw it in the
                        water.
                    Well, once upon a time there was just such a fishing party and they had a
                        stick of dynamite, or two or three. There was also an old fat hotel man who
                        had come along and he had a very fine big dog with him—a retriever—that he
                        thought a great deal of. Whenever anyone would shoot a duck or throw a stick
                        into the water, the dog would go and get it. On this occasion toward evening
                        someone threw a stick of dynamite in the water with the fuse lit. Only
                        instead of falling in the water it fell on some brush floating there and the
                        darn fool dog seeing it jumped in and began to swim out toward it. They all
                        commenced to holler at the dog to come back, but in vain. He swam to the
                        dynamite stick, got it in his mouth, and started for shore—the fuse burning
                        all the while. Then they all ran for their lives—all but the old fat hotel
                        man, who couldn't run very well, though he did his best, and it was
                        his dog. He lit out, though, through the green briars and brush, hollering,
                        "Go home, Tige! Go home, Tigel" at every jump. But old
                        Tige was just a-bounding on along behind him and a-wagging his tail and
                        a-shaking the water off him. What saved the old man was that at one place
                        the dog stopped to shake the water off and that gave him a fair start, but
                        he only missed him by about forty feet at that. The dog was just that near
                        when, bang! and say, there wasn't a thing left but just about a
                        half inch of his tail, which somebody found and which the old man used to
                        wear as a watch-charm and for good luck. He always said it was mighty good
                        luck for him that the dog didn't get any nearer.
                    And once more upon a time there was a very stingy old man who owned a field
                        opposite the railway station  of a small town.
                        A shed was there which made a rather good billboard and itinerant showmen
                        and medicine men occasionally posted bills on it—not without getting the
                        permission of the owner, however, who invariably extracted tickets or
                        something—medicine even.
                    One day, however, the station agent, who was idling in front of his office,
                        saw a man pasting showbills. He fancied Zeke Peters' (the
                        owner's) permission had not been obtained, but he wasn't
                        sure. It must be remembered that he was in no way related to Peters. Walking
                        over to the man, he inquired:
                    "Does paw know you're putting up them bills
                        here?"
                    "Why, no, I didn't think there'd be any trouble.
                        They're only small bills, as you see."
                    The agent pulled a long face.
                    "I know," he replied, "but I don't think
                        paw'd like this."
                    The showman handed him a ticket for the circus—one ticket.
                    "Well, I don't know about this," said the station
                        agent heavily. "If you didn't ask paw, I don't
                        know whether you'd better do this or not."
                    The billposter handed him another ticket.
                    "Won't that fix it?" he asked.
                    "Well," replied the agent, seemingly somewhat mollified,
                        "paw's awful particular, but I guess I can fix it.
                        I'll try anyhow"—and he walked solemnly back to the
                        station.
                    Old Peters didn't chance to see the bills until a day or two before
                        the circus. He was very angry, but at this time there were no circus men
                        around to complain to. When the show came to town he looked up the
                        box-office and found he had been done. Then he hurried to the agent.
                    "Where's them tickets?" he demanded.
                    "What tickets?" replied the agent.
                    "That you got from that billposter."
                    "Well, I'm usin' 'em. He gave
                        'em to me."
                    
                    "What fer, I'd like to know? It's my billboard,
                        ain't it?"
                    "Well, it was my idea, wasn't it?"
                    There Speed stopped.
                    "Well, did he get the tickets?" I asked.
                    "Course not. Nobody liked him, so he couldn't do
                        nothing."
                    I liked the ending philosophy of this the best of all.
                    And once upon a time in some backwoods county in Indiana there was an
                        election for president. There weren't but sixtynine voters in the
                        district and they kept straggling in from six A. M., when the polls opened,
                        to six P. M., when they closed. Then they all hung around to see how the
                        vote stood. And guess how it stood?
                    "Well?"
                    It was this-a-way. W. J. Bryan, 15; Andrew Jackson, 12; Jeff Davis, 9;
                        Abraham Lincoln, 8; Thomas Jefferson, 8; Moses, 6; Abraham, 15; John the
                        Baptist, 3; Daniel Boone, 2; William McKinley, I."
                    "What about George Washington, Speed?"
                    "Well, I guess they musta fergot him."
                    And, once more now, not every family in Indiana or elsewhere is strong for
                        education, and especially in the country. So once upon a time there was a
                        family—father and mother, that is—that got into a row over this very thing. An
                        old couple had married after each had been married before and each had had
                        children. Only, now, each of 'em only had one son apiece left, that
                        is, home with 'em. The old man believed in education and wanted his
                        boy educated, whereas the woman didn't. "No,
                        siree," she said, "I don't want any of my
                        children to ever git any of that book learnin'. None o'
                        the others had any and I 'low as Luke can git along just'
                        as well as they did."
                    But the old man he didn't feel quite right about it and somehow his
                        boy liked books. So, since he was really the stronger of the two, he sent
                        the two boys off and 
                        
                            FACTORYVILLE BIDS US FAREWELI
                        
                         made 'em go. The old woman grieved
                        and grieved. She felt as though her boy was being spoiled, and she said
                        so.
                    "Shucks!" said the old man, "he'll git
                        along all right. What's the matter with you, anyhow? If my boy
                        don't go to school he'll feel bad, and if I send him to
                        school and keep yours at home to work the neighbors will talk—now I just
                        can't manage it, that's all."
                    So the two boys kept on going for awhile longer. Only the old woman kept
                        feelin' worse and worse about it. All at once one day she got to
                        feelin' so terrible bad that she just gathered up her
                        boy's clothes and took him over to his grandfather's to
                        live, and gee! the old grandfather was sore about it. Say!
                    "Send that boy to school!" he says. "Never! Why,
                        he ain't the same boy any more at all already. I'll be
                        hanged if he ain't even fergot how to cuss," and he
                        wouldn't even let the boy's fosterfather come near him.
                        Not a bit of it, no siree.
                    And once upon a time, in the extreme southern part of Indiana where the ice
                        doesn't get very thick—not over three inches—there was a backwoods
                        preacher who made a trip to Evansville and saw an ice machine making ice a
                        foot thick, and he came back and told his congregation about it.
                    "Whaddy think of that!" one of the old members exclaimed.
                        "The Lord can't make it more'n three inches
                        around here, and he says men in Evansville can make it a foot
                        thick!"
                    So they turned the old preacher out for lying, b'gosh!
                    Once upon a time there was an old Irishman got on the train at Carmel,
                        Indiana, and walked in the car, but the seats were all taken. One was
                        occupied by an Indiana farmer and his dog. The Irishman knew, if he tried to
                        make the dog get down and give him the seat, he would have the farmer and
                        the dog to fight.
                    "That's a very fine darg ye have."
                    "Yes, stranger; he's the finest dog in the
                        county."
                    
                    "And he has the marks of a good coon darg."
                    "That's right. he can come as near findin' coons
                        where there ain't any as the next one."
                    "What brade of darg is he?"
                    "Well, he's a cross between an Irishman and a
                        skunk."
                    "Bejasus, then he must be related to the both of us!"
                    Somewhere in the country in Indiana they once built a railroad where there
                        never had been one and it created great excitement. One old farmer who had
                        lived on his farm a great many years and had never even seen a train or a
                        track and had raised a large family, mostly girls, was so interested that he
                        put his whole family in the wagon and drove up close to the track so they
                        could get a good view of the cars the first time they came through. But
                        before the train came he got uneasy. He was afraid the old grey mare would
                        get scared and run away. So he got out, unhitched the old horse and tied it
                        to a tree, gave it some hay and got back into the wagon. Pretty soon he saw
                        the train coming very fast, and as the old wagon was quite close to the
                        track he thought the train might jump the track and kill them all, so he
                        leaped out, got between the shafts and started to pull the wagon a little
                        farther down the hill. Just then the train neared the station and he got so
                        excited that he lost all control of himself and away he went down the hill,
                        lickety split. He ran upon a stump, upset the wagon and threw the old woman
                        and all the children out, and hurt them worse than ever the old mare would
                        have. The old woman was furious. She didn't have any bridle on him
                        and while he was running she missed seeing the train.
                    "Gol darn you," she hollered, "if I
                        didn't have a sprained ankle now, I'd fix
                        you—runnin' away like the crazy old fool that you are!"
                    "That's all right, Maria," he called back meekly.
                        "I was a leetle excited, I'll admit; but next week when
                        the train goes through again you and the children kin  come down and I'll stay to home. I just can't
                        stand these newfangled things, I reckon."
                    And once upon a time (and this is the last one for the present) there was a
                        real wildcat fight somewhere—a most wonderful wildcat fight. An old farmer
                        was sitting on a fence hoeing corn—that's the way they hoe corn in
                        some places—and all at once he saw two Thomas wildcats approaching each other
                        from different directions and swiftly. He was about to jump down and run
                        when suddenly the cats came together. It was all so swift that he scarcely
                        had time to move. They came along on their hind feet and when they got
                        together each one began to claw and climb up the other. In fifteen minutes
                        they were out of sight in the air, each one climbing rapidly up the other;
                        but he could hear them squalling for two hours after they were out of sight,
                        and froth and hair fell for two days!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    RAILROADS AND A NEW WONDER OF THE WORLD
                    IT wouldn't surprise me in the least if the
                        automobile, as it is being perfected now, would make over the whole
                        world's railway systems into something very different from what
                        they are today. Already the railways are complaining that the automobile is
                        seriously injuring business, and this is not difficult to understand. It
                        ought to be so. At best the railways have become huge, clumsy, unwieldy
                        affairs little suited to the temperamental needs and moods of the average
                        human being. They are mass carriers, freight handlers, great hurry
                        conveniences for overburdened commercial minds, but little more. After all,
                        travel, however much it may be a matter of necessity, is in most instances,
                        or should be, a matter of pleasure. If not, why go forth to roam the world
                        so wide? Are not trees, flowers, attractive scenes, great mountains,
                        interesting cities, and streets and terminals the objective? If not, why
                        not? Should the discomforts become too great, as in the case of the majority
                        of railroads, and any reasonable substitute offer itself, as the automobile,
                        the old form of conveyance will assuredly have to give way.
                    Think what you have to endure on the ordinary railroad—and what other kind is
                        there—smoke, dust, cinders, noise, the hurrying of masses of people, the
                        ringing of bells, the tooting of whistles, the brashness and discourtesy of
                        employes, cattle trains, coal trains, fruit trains, milk trains in endless
                        procession—and then they tell you that these are necessary in order to give
                        you the service you get. Actually our huge railways are becoming so freight
                        logged and trainyard and train terminal infested, and four tracked and
                        cinder blown, that they are a nuisance.
                    
                    Contrast travel by railroad with the charm of such a trip as we were now
                        making. Before the automobile, this trip, if it had been made at all, would
                        have had to be made by train—in part at least. I would not have ridden a
                        horse or in any carriage to Indiana—whatever I might have done after I
                        reached there. Instead of green fields and pleasant ways, with the pleasure
                        of stopping anywhere and proceeding at our leisure, substitute the necessity
                        of riding over a fixed route, which once or twice seen, or ten times, as in
                        my case, had already become an old story. For this is one of the drawbacks
                        to modern railroading, in addition to all its other defects—it is so fixed;
                        it has no latitude, no elasticity. Who wants to see the same old scenes over
                        and over and over? One can go up the Hudson or over the Alleghanies or
                        through the Grand Canyon of the Arizona once or twice, but if you have to go
                        that way always, if you go at all—But the prospect of new and varied roads,
                        and of that intimate contact with woodland silences, grassy slopes, sudden
                        and sheer vistas at sharp turns, streams not followed by endless lines of
                        cars—of being able to change your mind and go by this route or that according
                        to your mood—what a difference! These constitute a measureless superiority.
                        And the cost per mile is not so vastly much more by automobile. Today it is
                        actually making travel cheaper and quicker. Whether for a long tour or a
                        short one, it appears to make man independent and give him a choice of life,
                        which he must naturally prefer. Only the dull can love sameness.
                    North of Factoryville a little way—perhaps a score of miles—we encountered one
                        of these amazing works of man which, if they become numerous enough,
                        eventually make a country a great memory. They are the bones or articulatory
                        ligaments of the body politic which, like the roads and viaducts and baths
                        of ancient Rome, testify to the prime of its physical strength and after its
                        death lie like whitening bones about the fields of the world which once it
                        occupied.
                    We were coming around a curve near Nicholsen, Pennsylvania,  approaching a stream which traversed this
                        great valley, when across it from ridge's edge to ridge's
                        edge suddenly appeared a great white stone or concrete viaduct or bridge—we
                        could not tell at once which—a thing so colossal and impressive that we
                        instantly had Speed stop the car so that we might remain and gaze at it. Ten
                        huge arches—each say two hundred feet wide and two hundred feet high—were
                        topped by eleven other arches say fifteen feet wide and forty feet high, and
                        this whole surmounted by a great roadbed carrying several railway tracks, we
                        assumed. The builders were still at work on it. As before the great
                        Cathedral at Rouen or Amiens or Canterbury, or those giant baths in Rome
                        which so gratify the imagination, so here, at Nicholsen, in a valley
                        celebrated for nothing in particular and at the edge of a town of no size,
                        we stood before this vast structure, gazing in a kind of awe. These arches!
                        How really beautiful they were, how wide, how high, how noble, how
                        symmetrically planned! And the smaller arches above, for all the actually
                        huge size, how delicate and lightsomely graceful! How could they carry a
                        heavy train so high in the air? But there they were, nearly two hundred and
                        forty feet above us from the stream's surface, as we discovered
                        afterwards, and the whole structure nearly twentyfour hundred feet long. We
                        learned that it was the work of a great railroad corporation—a part of a
                        scheme for straightening and shortening its line about three miles!—which
                        incidentally was leaving a monument to the American of this day which would
                        be stared at in centuries to come as evidencing the courage, the
                        resourcefulness, the taste, the wealth, the commerce and the force of the
                        time in which we are living—now.
                    It is rather odd to stand in the presence of so great a thing in the making
                        and realize that you are looking at one of the true wonders of the world. As
                        I did so I could not help thinking of all the great wonders America has
                        already produced—capitals, halls, universities, bridges, monuments, water
                        flumes, sea walls, dams, 
                        
                            THE GREAT BRIDGE AT NICHOLSEN
                        
                         towering structures—yet the thought came to me
                        how little of all that will yet be accomplished have we seen. What towers, what bridges, what palaces, what
                        roads will not yet come! Numerous as these great things already are—a statue
                        of Lincoln in Chicago, a building by Woolworth in New York, a sea wall at
                        Galveston, an Ashokan dam in the Catskills, this bridge at Nicholsen—yet in
                        times to come there will be thousands of these wonders—possibly hundreds of
                        thousands where now there are hundreds. A great free people is hard at work
                        day after day building, building, building—and for what? Sometimes I think,
                        like the forces and processes which produce embryonic life here or the coral
                        islands in the Pacific, vast intelligences and personalities are at work,
                        producing worlds and nations. As a child is builded in the womb, so is a
                        star. We socalled individuals are probably no more than mere cell forms
                        constructing something in whose subsequent movements, passions, powers we
                        shall have no share whatsoever. Does the momentary cell life in the womb
                        show in the subsequent powers of the man? Will we show in the subsequent
                        life of the nation that we have helped build? When one thinks of how little
                        of all that is or will be one has any part in—are we not such stuff as dreams
                        are made of, and can we feel anything but a slave's
                        resignation?
                    While we were sightseeing, Speed was conducting a social conference of his
                        own in the shade of some trees in one of the quiet streets of Nicholson. I
                        think I have never seen anyone with a greater innate attraction for boys.
                        Speed was only twentyfive himself. Boys seemed to understand Speed and to be
                        hail-fellow-well-met with him, wherever he was. In Dover, at the Water Gap,
                        in Wilkes-Barré, Scranton—wherever we chanced to stop, there was a boy or
                        boys. He or they drew near and a general conversation ensued. In so far as I
                        could see, the mystery consisted of nothing more than a natural ability on
                        Speed's part to take them at their own value  and on their own terms. He was just like any other boy among
                        them, questioning and answering quite as if he and they were all grownups
                        and very serious. Here in Nicholsen, as we came back, no less than five
                        youngsters were explaining to him all the facts and wonders of the great
                        bridge.
                    "Yes, and one man fell from the top of them there little arches way
                        up there last winter down to the back of the big arch and he almost
                        died."
                    "Those little arches are forty feet above the big ones,"
                        another went on.
                    "Yes, but he didn't die," put in another
                        informatively. "He just, now, broke his back. But he almost died,
                        though. He can't do any more work."
                    "That's too bad," I said, "and how does
                        he manage to live now?"
                    "Well, his wife supports him, I believe," put in one
                        quietly.
                    "He's goin' to get a pension, though,"
                        said another.
                    "There's a law now or something," volunteered a
                        fourth. "They have to give him money."
                    "Oh, I see," I said. "That's fine. Can
                        any of you tell me how wide those arches are—those big arches?"
                    "One hundred and eighty feet wide and two hundred feet
                        high," volunteered one boy.
                    "And the little arches are sixteen feet and three inches wide and
                        forty feet high," put in another.
                    "And how long is it?"
                    "Two thousand, three hundred and ninetyfive feet from ridge to
                        ridge," came with schoolboy promtpness from three at once.
                    I was flabbergasted.
                    "How do you know all this?" I inquired.
                    "We learned it at school," said two. "Our teacher
                        knows."
                    I was so entertained by the general spirit of this group that I wanted to
                        stay awhile and listen to them. American boys—I know nothing of foreign
                        ones—are so frank, free and generally intelligent. There was not the
                        slightest  air of sycophancy about this group.
                        They were not seeking anything save temporary entertainment. Some of them
                        wanted to ride a little way,—perhaps to the nearest store—but only a little
                        way and then only when invited. They all looked so bright, and yet in this
                        group you could easily detect the varying characteristics which, other
                        things being equal, would make some successes materially and others
                        failures, possibly. Here was the comparatively dull boy, the bashful boy,
                        the shrewd boy, the easy going, pleasure loving boy. You could see it in
                        their eyes. One of them, a tallish, leanish youth, had instantly on the
                        appearance of Franklin and myself crowded the others back and stood closest,
                        his shrewd, examining eyes taking in all our characteristics. By looking
                        into his eyes I could see how shrewd, independent, and self protective he
                        was. He was not in the least overawed like some of the others, but rather
                        superior, like one who would have driven a clever bargain with us, if he
                        might have, and worsted us at it.
                    Except for this bridge and these children, Nicholsen held nothing, at least
                        nothing obvious. It was just a small town with retail stores, at one of
                        which, a druggist's, we stopped for picture cards. One would have
                        supposed, with so vast a thing as this bridge, there would have been
                        excellent photographs of it; but no, there was none that was really good.
                        The main street, some country roads, a wheat field which some rural poet had
                        snapped—that was all. This country druggist's store was very
                        flyspecked. I wished for Nicholsen's sake, as well as for my own,
                        that something worthy had been prepared, which the sightseeing public might
                        take away as a memento.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    A COUNTRY HOTEL
                    BEYOND Nicholsen, somewhere in this same wondrous valley
                        and in a winelike atmosphere, came New Milford and with it our noonday meal.
                        We were rolling along aimlessly, uncertain where next we would pause. The
                        sight of an old fashioned white hotel at a street corner with several rurals
                        standing about and a row of beautiful elms over the way gave us our cue.
                        "This looks rather inviting," said Franklin; and then, to
                        the figure of a heavy nondescript in brown jeans who was sitting on a chair
                        outside in the shade:
                    "Can't we get something to eat here?"
                    "You can," replied the countryman succintly;
                        "they'll be putting dinner on the table in a few
                        minutes."
                    We went into the bar, Franklin's invariable opening for these meals
                        being a cocktail, when he could get one. It was a cleanly room, but with
                        such a field hand atmosphere about those present that I was a little
                        disappointed, and yet interested. I always feel about most American country
                        saloons that they are patronized by ditchers and men who do the rough
                        underpaid work of villages, while in England and France I had a very
                        different feeling.
                    I was much interested here by the proprietor, or, as he turned out afterward,
                        one of two brothers who owned the hotel. He was an elderly man, stout and
                        serious, who in another place perhaps and with a slightly different start in
                        life might, I am sure, have been banker, railroad offcer, or director. He
                        was so circumspect, polite, regardful. He came to inquire in a serious way
                        if we were going to take dinner? We were.
                    "You can come right in whenever you are ready," he
                        commented.
                    
                    Something in his tone and presence touched me pleasantly.
                    Beause of the great heat—it was blazing outside—I had left my coat in the car
                        and was arrayed in a brown khaki shirt and grey woolen trousers, with a
                        belt. Because of the heat it did not occur to me that my appearance would
                        not pass muster. But, no. Life's little rules of conduct are not so
                        easily set aside, even in a country hotel. As I neared the diningroom door
                        and was passing the coatrack, mine host appeared and, with a grace and tact
                        which I have nowhere seen surpassed, and in a voice which instantly obviated
                        all possibility of a disagreeable retort, he presented me a coat which he
                        had taken from a hook and, holding it ready, said: "Would you mind
                        slipping into this?"
                    "Pardon me," I said, "I have a coat in the car; I
                        will get that."
                    Don't trouble," he said gently; "you can wear this
                        if you like. It will do."
                    I had to smile, but in an entirely friendly way. Something about the
                        man's manner made me ashamed of myself—not that it would have been
                        such a dreadful thing to have gone into the diningroom looking as I was, for
                        I was entirely presentable, but that I had not taken greater thought to
                        respect his conventions more. He was a gentleman running a country hotel—a
                        real gentleman. I was the brash, smart asininity from the city seeking to
                        have my own way in the country because the city looks down on the country.
                        It hurt me a little and yet I felt repaid by having encountered a man who
                        could fence so skilfully with the little and yet irritable and no doubt
                        difficult problems of his daily life. I wanted to make friends with him, for
                        I could see so plainly that he was really above the thing he was doing and
                        yet content in some philosophical way to make the best of it. How this man
                        came to be running a country hotel, with a bar attached, I should like to
                        know.
                    After luncheon, I fell into a conversation with him, brief but interesting.
                        He had lived here many years.
                    
                    The place over the way with the beautiful trees belonged to a former
                        congressman. (I could see the forgotten dignitary making the best of his
                        former laurels in this out-of-the-way place.) New Milford, a very old place,
                        had been hurt by the growth of other towns. But now the automobile was
                        beginning to do something for it. Last Sunday six hundred machines had
                        passed through here. Only last week the town had voted to pave the principal
                        street, in order to attract further travel. One could see by mine
                        host's manner that his hotel business was picking up. I venture to
                        say he offered to contribute liberally to the expense, so far as his ability
                        would permit.
                    I could not help thinking of this man as we rode away, and I have been
                        thinking of him from time to time ever since. He was so simple, so sincere,
                        so honorably dull or conventional. I wish that I could believe there are
                        thousands of such men in the world. His hotel was tasteless; so are the vast
                        majority of other hotels, and homes too, in America. The dining room was
                        execrable from one point of view; nave, and pleasingly so, from another. One
                        could feel the desire to "set a good table" and give a
                        decent meal. The general ingredients were good as far as they went, but,
                        alas! the average American does not make a good servant—for the public. The
                        girl who waited on us was a poor slip, well intentioned enough, I am sure,
                        but without the first idea of what to do. I could, see her being selected by
                        mine host because she was a good girl, or because her mother was poor and
                        needed the money—never because she had been trained to do the things she was
                        expected to do. Americans live in a world of sentiment in spite of all their
                        business acumen, and somehow expect God to reward good intentions with
                        perfect results. I adore the spirit, but I grieve for its insutility. No
                        doubt this girl was dreaming (all the time she was waiting on us) of some
                        four-corners merry-go-round where her beau would be waiting. Dear, naïve
                        America! When will it be different  from a
                        dreaming child, and, if ever that time arrives, shall we ever like it as
                        much again?
                    And then came Halstead and Binghamton, for we were getting on. I never saw a
                        finer day nor ever enjoyed one more. Imagine smooth roads, a blue sky, white
                        and black cattle on the hills, lovely farms, the rich green woods and yellow
                        grainfields of a fecund August. Life was going by in a Monticelli-esque
                        mood. Door-yards and houses seemed to be a compound of blowing curtains,
                        cool deep shadows, women in summery dresses reading, and then an arabesque
                        of bright flowers, golden-glow, canna, flowering sage, sweet elyssum,
                        geraniums and sunflowers. At Halstead we passed an hotel facing the
                        Susquehanna River, which seemed to me the ideal of what a summer hotel
                        should be—gay with yellow and white awnings and airy balconies and painted
                        with flowers. Before it was this blue river, a lovely thing, with canoes and
                        trees and a sense of summer life.
                    Beyond, on a smooth white road, we met a man who was selling some kind of
                        soap—a soap especially good for motorists. He came to us out of Binghamton,
                        driving an old ramshackle vehicle, and hailed us as we were pausing to
                        examine something. He was a tall, lean, shabby American, clothed in an
                        ancient frock coat and soft rumpled felt hat, and looked like some
                        small-town carpenter or bricklayer or maker of cement walks. By his side sat
                        a youngish man, who looked nothing and said nothing, taking no part in what
                        followed. He had a dreamy, speculative and yet harassed look, made all the
                        more emphatic by a long pointed nose and narrow pointed chin.
                    "I've got something here I'd like to show you,
                        gentlemen," he called, drawing rein and looking hopefully at
                        Franklin and Speed.
                    "Well, we're always willing to look at something
                        once," replied Franklin cheerfully and in a bantering tone.
                    "Very well, gentlemen," said the stranger,
                        "you're just  the people
                        I'm looking for, and you'll be glad you've met
                        me." Even as he spoke he had been reaching under the seat and
                        produced a small can of something which he now held dramatically aloft.
                        "It's the finest thing in the way of a hand or machine
                        soap that has ever been invented, no akali (he did not seem to know there
                        were two Is in the word), good for man or woman. Won't soil the
                        most delicate fabric or injure the daintiest hands. I know, now, for
                        I've been working on this for the last three years. It's
                        my personal, private invention. The basis of it is cornmeal and healing,
                        soothing oils. You rub it on your hands before you put them in water and it
                        takes off all these spots and stains that come from machine oil and that
                        ordinary turpentine won't take out. It softens them right up. Have
                        you got any oil'stains?" he continued, seizing one of
                        Speed's genial hands. "Very good. This will take it right
                        out. You haven't any water in there, have you, or a pan? Never
                        mind. I'm sure this lady up here in this house will let me have
                        some," and off he hustled with the air of a proselytizing
                        religionist.
                    I was interested. So much enthusiasm for so humble a thing as a soap aroused
                        me. Besides he was curious to look at—a long, lean, shambling zealot. He was
                        so zealous, so earnest, so amusing, if you please, or hopeless.
                        "Here really,'I said, "is the basis of all
                        zealotry, of all hopeless invention, of struggle and dreams never to be
                        fulfilled." He looked exactly like the average inventor who is
                        destined to invent and invent and invent and never succeed in anything.
                    "Well, there is character there, anyhow," said Franklin.
                        "That long nose, that thin dusty coat, that watery blue, inventive
                        eye—all mountebanks and charlatans and street corner fakers have something of
                        this man in them—and yet—"
                    He came hustling back.
                    "Here you are now!" he exclaimed, as he put down a small
                        washpan full of water. "Now you just take this and rub it in good.
                        Don't be afraid; it won't hurt the  finest fabric or skin. I know what all the ingredients are. I
                        worked on it three years before I discovered it. Everybody in Binghamton
                        knows me. If it don't work, just write me at any time and you can
                        get your money back."
                    In his eager routine presentation of his material he seemed to forget that we
                        were present, here and now, and could demand our money back before he left.
                        In a fitting spirit of camaraderie Speed rubbed the soap on his hands and
                        spots which had for several days defied ordinary soap-cleansing processes
                        immediately disappeared. Similarly, Franklin, who had acquired a few stains,
                        salved his hands. He washed them in the pan of water standing on the engine
                        box, and declared the soap a success. From my lofty perch in the car I now
                        said to Mr. Vallaurs (the name on the label of the bottle), "Well,
                        now you've made fifteen cents."
                    "Not quite," he corrected, with the eye of a holy
                        disputant. "There are eight ingredients in that besides the
                        cornmeal and the bottle alone costs me four and one-half
                        cents."
                    "Is that so?" I continued—unable to take him seriously and
                        yet sympathizing with him, he seemed so futile and so prodigal of his
                        energy. "Then I really suppose you don't make much of
                        anything?"
                    "Oh, yes, I do," he replied, seemingly unconscious of my
                        jesting mood, and trying to be exact in the interpretation of his profit.
                        "I make a little, of course. I'm only introducing it now,
                        and it takes about all I make to get it around. I've got it in all
                        the stores of Bing-hamton. I've been in the chemical business for
                        years now. I got up some perfumes here a few years ago, but some fellows in
                        the wholesale business did me out of them."
                    "I see, " I said, trying to tease him and so bring forth
                        any latent animosity which he might be concealing against fate or life. He
                        looked to me to be a man who had been kicked about from pillar to post.
                        "Well, when you get this well started and it looks as though it
                        would be  a real success, some big soap or
                        chemical manufacturer will come along and take it away from you. You
                        won't make anything out of it."
                    "Won't I?" he rejoined defiantly, taking me with
                        entire seriousness and developing a flash of opposition in his
                        eyes."No, he won't, either. I've had that done to
                        me before, but it won't happen this time. I know the tricks of them
                        sharps. I've got all this patented. The last time I only had my
                        application in. That's why I'm out here on this road today
                        interducin' this myself. I lost the other company I was interested
                        in. But I'm going to take better care of this one. I want to see
                        that it gets a good start."
                    He seemed a little like an animated scarecrow in his mood.
                    "Oh, I know," I continued dolefully, but purely in a
                        jesting way, "but they'll get you, anyhow.
                        They'll swallow you whole. You're only a beginner;
                        you're all right now, so long as your business is small, but just
                        wait until it looks good enough to fight for and they'll come and
                        take it away from you. They'll steal or imitate it, and if you say
                        anything they'll look up your past and have you arrested for
                        something you did twenty or thirty years ago in Oshkosh or Oskaloosa. Then
                        they'll have your first wife show up and charge you with bigamy or
                        they'll prove that you stole a horse or something.
                        Sure—they'll get it away from you," I concluded.
                    "No, they won't either," he insisted, a faint
                        suspicion that I was joking with him beginning to dawn on him. "I
                        ain't never had but one wife and I never stole any horse.
                        I've got this patented now and I'll make some money out of
                        it, I think. It's the best soap"—(and here as he thought of
                        his invention once more his brow cleared and his enthusiasm
                        rose)—"the most all-round useful article that has ever been put on
                        the market. You gentlemen ought really to take a thirty-cent
                        bottle"—he went back and produced a large one—"it will last
                        you a lifetime. I guarantee it not to soil, mar or injure the finest fabric
                        or skin. Cornmeal is the chief ingredient  and
                        eight other chemicals, no akali. I wish you'd take a few of my
                        cards"—he produced a handful of these—" and if you find
                        anyone along the road who stands in need of a thing of this kind I wish
                        you'd just be good enough to give em one so's
                        they'll know where to write. I'm right here in Binghamton.
                        I've been here now for twenty years or more. Every druggist knows
                        me."
                    He looked at us with an unconsciously speculative eye—as though he were
                        wondering what service we would be to him.
                    Franklin took the cards and gave him fifteen cents. Speed was still washing
                        his hands, some new recalcitrant spots having been discovered. I watched the
                        man as he proceeded to his rattletrap vehicle.
                    "Well, gentlemen, I'll be saying good day to you. Will you
                        be so kind as to return that pan to that lady up there, when you're
                        through with it? She was very accommodating about it."
                    "Certainly, certainly, replied Franklin, "we'll
                        attend to it."
                    Once he had gone there ensued a long discussion of inventors and their fates.
                        Here was this one, fifty years of age, if he was a day, and out on the
                        public road, advertising a small soap which could not possibly bring him the
                        reward he desired soon.
                    "You see, he's going the wrong way about it,"
                        Franklin said. "He's putting the emphasis on what he can
                        do personally, when he ought to be seeing about what others can do for him;
                        he should be directing as a manager, instead of working as a salesman. And
                        another thing, he places too much emphasis upon local standards ever to
                        become broadly successful. He said over and over that all the druggists and
                        automobile supply houses in Binghamton handle his soap. That's
                        nothing to us. We are, as it were, overland citizens and the judgments of
                        Binghamton do not convince us of anything any more than the judgments of,
                        other towns and crossroad communities along our route. Every little
                        community has its standards and its locally successful ones. The thing  that will determine actual success is a
                        man's ability or inability to see outside and put upon himself the
                        test of a standard peculiar to no one community but common to all. This man
                        was not only apparently somewhat mystified when we asked him what scheme he
                        had to reach the broader market with his soap; he appeared never to have
                        approached in his own mind that possibility at all. So he could never become
                        more than partially successful or rich."
                    "Very true," I assented, "but a really capable man
                        wouldn't work for him. He'd consider him too futile and
                        try to take his treasure away from him and then the poor creature would be
                        just where he was before, compelled to invent something else. Any man who
                        would work for him wouldn't actually be worth having. It would be a
                        case of the blind leading the blind."
                    There was much more of this—a long discussion. We agreed that any man who does
                        anything must have so much more than the mere idea—must have vision, the
                        ability to control and to organize men, a magnetism for those who are
                        successful—in short, that mysterious something which we call personality.
                        This man did not have it. He was a poor scrub, blown hither and yon by all
                        the winds of circumstance, dreaming of some far-off supremacy which he never
                        could enjoy or understand, once he had it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    THE CITY OF SWAMP ROOT
                    BINGHAMTON"Bimington," as Franklin
                        confusedly called it in trying to ask the way of someone—now dawned swiftly
                        upon us. I wouldn't devote a line to those amazingly commercial
                        towns and cities of America which are so numerous if the very commercial
                        life of the average American weren't so interesting to me. If
                        anyone should ask me "What's in Binghamton?" I
                        should confess to a sense of confusion, as if he were expecting me to refer
                        to something artistic or connected in any way with the world of high
                        thought. But then, what's in Leeds or Sheffield or Nottingham, or
                        in Stettin or Hamburg or Bremen? Nothing save people, and people are always
                        interesting, when you get enough of them.
                    When we arrived in Binghamton there was a parade, and a gala holiday
                        atmosphere seemed everywhere prevailing. Flags were out, banners were strung
                        across the roadway; in every street were rumbling, large flag-bedecked
                        autotrucks and vehicles of various descriptions loaded with girls and boys
                        in white (principally girls) and frequently labeled "Boost Johnson
                        City."
                    "What in the world is Johnson City, do you suppose?" I
                        asked of Franklin. "Are they going to change the name of Binghamton
                        to Johnson City?"
                    Speed was interested in the crowds. "Gee, this is a swell town for
                        girls," he commented; but after we had alighted and walked about
                        among them for a time, they did not seem so attractive to me. But the place
                        had a real if somewhat staccato air of gayety.
                    "Where is Johnson City?" I asked of a drug clerk of whom we
                        were buying a sundae.
                    
                    "Oh, it's a town out here—a suburb that used to be called
                        Leicestershire. They're renaming it after a man out there—R. G.
                        Johnson."
                    "Why?"
                    "Oh, well, he's made a big success of a shoe business out
                        there that employs two thousand people and he's given money for
                        different things."
                    "So they're naming the town after him?"
                    "Yes. He's a pretty good fellow, I guess. They say he
                        is."
                    Not knowing anything of Mr. Johnson, good, bad, or indifferent, I agreed with
                        myself to suspend judgment. A man who can build up a shoe manufacturing
                        business that will employ two thousand people and get the residents of a
                        fair-sized city or town tc rename it after him is doing pretty well, I
                        think. He couldn't be a Dick Turpin or a Jesse James; not openly,
                        at least. People don't rename towns after Dick Turpins.
                    But Binghamton soon interested me from another point of view, for stepping
                        out of this store I saw a great red, eight or nine story structure labeled
                        the Kilmer Building, and then I realized I was looking at the home of
                        "Swamp Root," one of those amazing cure-all remedies which
                        arise, shine, make a fortune for some clever compounder and advertiser, and
                        then after a period disappear. Think of Hood's Sarsaparilla,
                        Ayer's Sarsaparilla, Peruna, Omega Oil, Lydia E. Pinkham's
                        Vegetable Compound! American inventions, each and all, purchased by
                        millions. Why don't the historians tell us of the cure-alls of
                        Greece and Rome and Egypt and Babylon? There must have been some.
                    Looking at Dr. Kilmer's Swamp Root Building reminded me of a winter
                        spent in a mountain town in West Virginia. It had a large and prosperous
                        drug store, where one night I happened to be loafing for a little while, to
                        take shelter from the snow that was falling heavily. Presently there entered
                        an old, decrepit negro woman who hobbled up to the counter, and fumbling  under her black shawl, produced a crumpled
                        dollar bill.
                    "I want a bottle of Swamp Root," she said.
                    "I'll tell you how it is, mammy," said the clerk,
                        a dapper country beau, with a most oily and ingratiating manner.
                        "If you want to take six bottles it's only five dollars.
                        Six bottles make a complete cure. If you take the whole six now,
                        you've got -'em. Then you've got the complete
                        cure."
                    The old woman hesitated. She was evidently as near the grave with any remedy
                        as without one.
                    "All right," she said, after a moment's pause.
                    So the clerk wrapped six bottles into a large, heavy parcel, took the extra
                        bills which she produced and rang them up in his cash register. And
                        meanwhile she gathered her cure under her shawl, and hobbled forth, smiling
                        serenely. It depressed me at the time, but it was none of my business.
                    Now as I looked at this large building, I wondered how many other hobbling
                        mammies had contributed to its bricks and plate glass—and why.
                    There was another large building, occupied by a concern called the Ansco
                        Company, which seemed to arouse the liveliest interest in Franklin. He had
                        at some previous time been greatly interested in cameras and happened to
                        know that a very large camera company, situated somewhere in America, had
                        once stolen from this selfsame Ansco Company some secret process relating to
                        the manufacture of a flexible film and had proceeded therewith to make so
                        many millions that the user of the stolen process eventually became one of
                        the richest men in America, one of our captains of great industries.
                    But the owners of the Ansco Company were dissatisfied. Like the citizens in
                        the ancient tale who are robbed and cry "Stop thief!" they
                        sued and sued and sued in the courts. First they sued in a circuit court,
                        then in a state court of appeals, then in a federal court and then before
                        the United States Supreme Court. There were countless lawyers and bags and
                        bags of evidence; reversals, new trials, stays, and errors in judgment,
                        until finally, by  some curious turn of
                        events, the United States Supreme Court decided that the process invented by
                        the Ansco Company really did belong to said Ansco Company and that all other
                        users of the process were interlopers and would have to repay to said Ansco
                        Company all they had ever stolen and more—a royalty on every single camera
                        they had ever sold. So the Ansco Company, like the virtuous but persecuted
                        youth or girl in the fairy tale, was able to collect the millions of which
                        it had been defrauded and live happily ever afterwards.
                    Leaving Binghamton, we went out along the beautiful Susquehanna, which here
                        in the heart of the city had been parked for a little way, and saw all the
                        fine houses of all the very wealthy people of Binghamton. Then we drove
                        along a street crowded with more and more beautiful homes, all fresh and
                        airy with flowers and lawns and awnings, and at last we came to Johnson
                        City, or Leicestershire as it once was. Here were the remains of a most
                        tremendous American celebration—flags and buntings and signs and a
                        merry-go-round. In front of a new and very handsome Catholic Church which
                        was just building hung a large banner reading "The noblest Roman of
                        them allR. G. Johnson"—a flare of enthusiasm which I take it must
                        have had some very solid substance behind it. Down in a hollow, was a very,
                        very, very large red factory with its countless windows and great towering
                        stacks and a holiday atmosphere about it, and all around it were houses and
                        houses and houses, all new and all very much alike. You could see that Mr.
                        Johnson and his factory and his protgs had grown exceedingly fast. And in
                        the streets still were wagons with bunting on them and people in them, and
                        we could see that there had just been a procession, with soldiers and boy
                        scouts and girls—but alas, we had missed it.
                    "Well," I said to Franklin, "now you see how it
                        is. Here is the reward of virtue. A man builds a great business and treats
                        his employés fairly and everybody loves him. Isn't that
                        so?"
                    
                    
                        FLORENCE AND THE ARNO. AT OWEGO
                    
                    
                    Franklin merely looked at me. He has a way of just contemplating you, at
                        times—noncommittally.
                    It was soon after leaving Binghamton that we encountered the first of a
                        series of socalled "detours," occurring at intervals all
                        through the states of New York, Ohio and Indiana, and which we later came to
                        conclude were the invention of the devil himself. Apparently traffic on the
                        roads of the states has increased so much of late that it has necessitated
                        the repairing of former "made" roads and the conversion of
                        old routes of clay into macadam or vitrified brick. Here in western New York
                        (for we left Pennsylvania at Halstead for awhile) they were all macadam, and
                        in many places the state roads socalled (roads paid for by the money of the
                        state and not of the county) were invariably supposed to be the best. All
                        strolling villagers and rurals would tell you so. As a matter of fact, as we
                        soon found for ourselves, they were nearly always the worst, for they hummed
                        with a dusty, whitey traffic, which soon succeeded in wearing holes in them
                        of a size anywhere from that of a dollar to that of a washtub or vat.
                        Traveling at a rate of much more than ten miles an hour over these hollows
                        and depressions was almost unendurable. Sometimes local motorists and
                        farmers in a spirit of despair had cut out a new road in the common clay,
                        while a few feet higher up lay the supposedly model "state
                        road," entirely unused. At any rate, wherever was the best and
                        shortest road, there were repairs most likely to be taking place, and this
                        meant a wide circle of anywhere from two or three to nine miles. A wretched
                        series of turns and twists calculated to try your spirit and temper to the
                        breaking point.
                    "Detours! Detours! Detours!" I suddenly exclaimed at one
                        place in western Ohio. "I wish to heaven we could find some part of
                        this state which wasn't full of detours." And Speed would
                        remark: "Another damn detour! Well, what do you think of that?
                        I'd I like to have a picture of this one—I would!"
                    This, however, being the first we encouontered, did not  seem so bad. We jounced and bounced around it and eventually
                        regained the main road, spinning on to Owego, some fifteen or twenty miles
                        away.
                    Day was beginning to draw to a close. The wane of our afternoons was
                        invariably indicated these August days by a little stir of cool air coming
                        from somewhere—perhaps hollows and groves—and seeming to have a touch of dew
                        and damp in it. Spirals of gnats appeared spinning in the air, following us
                        a little way and then being left behind or overtaken and held flat against
                        our coats and caps. I was always brushing off gnats at this hour. We were
                        still in that same Susquehanna Valley I have been describing, rolling on
                        between hills anywhere from eight hundred to a thousand feet high and seeing
                        the long shadows of them stretch out and cover the valley. Wherever the sun
                        struck the river it was now golden—a bright, lustreful gold—and the hills
                        seemed dotted with cattle, some with bells that tinkled. Always at this time
                        evening smokes began to curl up from chimneys and the labor of the day
                        seemed to be ending in a pastoral of delight.
                    "Oh, Franklin," I once exclaimed, "this is the
                        ideal hour. Can you draw me this?"
                    At one point he was prompted to make a sketch. At another I wanted to stop
                        and contemplate a beautiful bend in the river. Soon Owego appeared, a town
                        say of about five thousand, nestling down by the waterside amid a great
                        growth of elms, and showing every element of wealth and placid comfort. A
                        group of homes along the Susquehanna, their backs perched out over it,
                        reminded us of the houses at Florence on the Arno and Franklin had to make a
                        sketch of these. Then we entered the town over a long, shaky iron bridge and
                        rejoiced to see one of the prettiest cities we had yet found.
                    Curiously, I was most definitely moved by Owego. There is something about the
                        old fashioned, comfortable American town at its best—the town where moderate
                        wealth and religion and a certain social tradition hold—which is at once
                        pleasing and yet comfortable—a gratifying  and
                        yet almost disturbingly exclusive state of affairs. At least as far as I am
                        concerned, such places and people are antipodal to anything that I could
                        ever again think, believe or feel. From contemplating most of the small
                        towns with which I have come in contact and the little streets of the cities
                        as contrasted with the great, I have come to dread the conventional point of
                        view. The small mind of the townsmen is antipolar to that of the larger,
                        more sophisticated wisdom of the city. It may be that the still pools and
                        backwaters of communal life as represented by these places is necessary to
                        the preservation of the state and society. I do not know. Certainly the
                        larger visioned must have something to direct and the small towns and little
                        cities seem to provide them. They are in the main fecundating centres—regions
                        where men and women are grown for more labor of the same kind. The churches
                        and moral theorists and the principle of self preservation, which in the
                        lowly and dull works out into the rule of "live and let
                        live," provide the rules of their existence. They do not gain a
                        real insight into the fact that they never practise what they believe or
                        that merely living, as man is compelled to live, he cannot interpret his
                        life in the terms of the religionist or the moral enthusiast. Men are
                        animals with dreams of something superior to animality, but the small town
                        soul—or the little soul anywhere—never gets this straight. These are the
                        places in which the churches flourish. Here is where your theologically
                        schooled numskull thrives, like the weed that he is. Here is where the
                        ordinary family with a little tradition puts an inordinate value on that
                        tradition. All the million and one notions that have been generated to
                        explain the universe here float about in a nebulous mist and create a dream
                        world of error, a miasmatic swamp mist above which these people never rise.
                        I never was in such a place for any period of time without feeling cabined,
                        cribbed, confined, intellectually if not emotionally.
                    Speed went around the corner to look for a garage and Franklin departed in
                        another direction for a bag of  popcorn. Left
                        alone, I contemplated a saloon which stood next door and on the window of
                        which was pasted in gold glass letters "B. B. Delano."
                        Thirsting for a glass of beer, I entered, and inside I found the customary
                        small town saloon atmosphere, only this room was very large and clean and
                        rather vacant. There was a smell of whiskey in the cask, a good smell, and a
                        number of citizens drinking beer. A solemn looking bartender, who was
                        exceptionally bald, was waiting on them. Some bits of cheese showed
                        dolefully under a screen. I ordered a beer and gazed ruefully about. I was
                        really not here, but back in Warsaw, Indiana, in 1886.
                    And in here was Mr. B. B. Delano himself, a small, dapper, rusty, red faced
                        man, who, though only moderately intelligent, was pompous to the verge of
                        bursting, as befits a small man who has made a moderate success in life. Yet
                        Mr. B. B. Delano, as I was soon to discover, had his private fox gnawing at
                        his vitals. There was a worm in the bud. Only recently there had been a
                        great anti-liquor agitation and a fair proportion of the saloons all over
                        the state had been closed. Three months before in this very town, at the
                        spring election, "no license" had been voted. All the
                        saloons here, to the number of four, would have to be closed, including Mr.
                        Delano's, in the heart of the town. That meant that Mr. Delano
                        would have to get another business of some kind or quit. I saw him looking
                        at me curiously, almost mournfully.
                    "Touring the state?" he asked.
                    "We're riding out to Indiana," I explained.
                        "I come from there."
                    "Oh, I see. Indiana! That's a nice little trip,
                        isn't it? Well, I see lots of machines going through here these
                        days, many more than I ever expected to see. It's made a difference
                        in my business. Only"—and here followed a long account of his
                        troubles. He owned houses and lands, a farm of three hundred acres not far
                        out, on which he lived, and other properties, but this saloon obviously was
                        his pet. "I'm thinking of making  an eating place of it next fall," he added.
                        "'No license' may not last—forever." His
                        eye had a shrewd, calculating expression.
                    "That's true," I said.
                    "It keeps me worried, though," he added doubtfully.
                        "I don't like to leave now. Besides, I'm getting
                        along. I'm nearly sixty," he straightened himself up as
                        though he meant to prove that he was only forty, "and I like my
                        farm. It really wouldn't kill me if I never could open this place
                        any more." But I could see that he was talking just to hear himself
                        talk, boasting. He was desperately fond of his saloon and all that it
                        represented; not ashamed, by any means.
                    "But there's Newark and New York," I said.
                        "I should think you'd like to go down there."
                    "I might," he agreed; "perhaps I will.
                        It's a long way for me, though. Won't you have another
                        drink—you and your friends?" By now Franklin and Speed were
                        returning and Mr. Delano waved a ceremonious, inclusive hand, as if to
                        extend all the courtesies of the establishment.
                    The bartender was most alert—a cautious, apprehensive person. I could see that
                        Mr. Delano was inclined to be something of a martinet. For some reason he
                        had conceived of us as personages—richer than himself, no doubt—and was
                        anxious to live up to our ideas of things and what he thought we might
                        expect.
                    "Well, now," he said, as we were leaving, "if you
                        ever come through here again you might stop and see if I'm still
                        here."
                    As Speed threw on the ignition spark and the machine began to rumble and
                        shake, Mr. Delano proceeded up the handsome small town street with quite a
                        stride. I could see that he felt himself very much of a personage—one of the
                        leading figures of Owego.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    A RIDE BY NIGHT
                    IT was a glorious night—quite wonderful. There are certain
                        summer evenings when nature produces a poetic, emotionalizing mood. Life
                        seems to talk to you in soft whispers of wonderful things it is doing.
                        Marshes and pools, if you encounter any, exhale a mystic breath. You can
                        look into the profiles of trees and define strange gorgon-like
                        countenances—all the crones and spectres of a thousand years. (What images of
                        horror have I not seen in the profiles of trees!) Every cottage seems to
                        contain a lamp of wonder and to sing. Every garden suggests a tryst of
                        lovers. A river, if you follow one, glimmers and whimpers. The stars glow
                        and sing. They bend down like lambent eyes. All nature improvises a harmony—a
                        splendid harmony—one of her rarest symphonies indeed.
                    And tonight as we sped out of Owego and I rested in the deep cushions of the
                        car it seemed as if some such perfect symphony was being interpreted.
                        Somewhere out of the great mystery of the unknowable was coming this rare
                        and lovely something. What is God, I asked, that he should build such scenes
                        as this? His forces of chemistry! His powers of physics! We complain and
                        complain, but scenes like these compensate for many things. They weave and
                        sing. But what are they? Here now are treetoads cheep-cheeping. What do they
                        know of life—or do their small bodies contain a world of wonder, all dark to
                        my five dull senses? And these sweet shadows—rich and fragrant—now mellowing,
                        now poignant! I looked over my right shoulder quite by accident and there
                        was a new moon hanging low in the west, a mere feather, its faintness
                        reflected in the  bosom of a still stream. We
                        were careening along a cliff overhanging this river and as we did so along
                        came a brightly lighted train following the stream bed and rushing
                        somewhere, probably to New York. I thought of all the people on it and what
                        they were doing, what dreaming, where going; what trysts, what plots, what
                        hopes nurturing. I looked into a cottage door and there a group of people
                        were singing and strumming—their voices followed us down the wind in music
                        and laughter.
                    Somewhere along this road at some wayside garage we had to stop for oil and
                        gas, as Speed referred to gasoline—always one quart of oil, I noticed, and
                        about seven gallons of gasoline, the price being anywhere from $1.25 to
                        $1.75, according to where we chanced to be. I was drowsing and dreaming,
                        thinking how wonderful it all was and how pleasant our route would surely
                        be, when a man came up on a motorcycle, a strained and wiry looking
                        individual, who said he had just come through western New York and northern
                        Ohio—one of those fierce souls who cover a thousand miles a day on a
                        motorcycle. They terrify me.
                    Franklin, with an honest interest in the wellbeing of his car, was for
                        gathering information as to roads. There was no mystery about our immediate
                        course, for we were in a region of populous towns—Waverley, Elmira, Corning,
                        Hornell—which on our map were marked as easy of access. The roads were
                        supposed to be ideal. The great proposition before us however, was whether
                        once having reached Elmira we would go due north to Canandaigua and
                        Rochester, thereby striking, as someone told us, a wonderful state road to
                        Buffalo—the road—or whether we would do as I had been
                        wishing and suggesting, cut due west, following the northern Pennsylvania
                        border, and thereby save perhaps as much as a hundred and fifty miles in
                        useless riding north and south.
                    Franklin was for the region that offered the best roads. I was for adventure,
                        regardless of machines or roads. We had half compromised on the thought that
                        it might  be well to visit Warsaw, New York,
                        which lay about half way between the two opposing routes with which we were
                        opposing each other, and this solely because the name of one of my home
                        towns in Indiana was Warsaw and this Warsaw, as my pamphlet showed, was
                        about the same size. It was a sort of moonshiny, nonsensical argument all
                        around; and this man who had just come through Warsaw from Buffalo had no
                        particular good word to say for the roads. It was a hilly country, he said.
                        "You climb one hill to get into Warsaw and five others to get out,
                        and they're terrors." I could see a look of uncertainty
                        pass over Franklin's face. Farewell to Warsaw, I thought.
                    But another bystander was not so sure. All the roads from here on leading
                        toward Buffalo were very good. Many machines came through Warsaw. My spirits
                        rose. We decided to postpone further discussion until we reached Elmira and
                        could consult with an automobile club, perhaps. We knew we would not get
                        farther than Elmira tonight; for we had chaffered away another hour, and it
                        was already dusk.
                    We never experienced a more delightful evening on the whole trip. It was all
                        so moving—the warm air, the new silvery moon, the trees on the hills forming
                        dark shadows, the hills themselves gradually growing dim and fading into
                        black, the twinkling lights here and there, fireflies, the river, this
                        highroad always high, high above the stream. There were gnats but no
                        mosquitoes—at least none when we were in motion—and our friend Speed, guiding
                        the car with a splendid technique, was still able between twists and turns
                        and high speeds and low speeds to toss back tale after tale of a daring and
                        yet childlike character, which kept me laughing all the while. Speed was so
                        naïve. He had such innocently gross and yet comfortable human things to
                        relate of horses, cows, dogs, farm girls, farm boys, the studfarm business,
                        with which he was once connected, and so on.
                    "Put on a slip and come down," he called to her.
                        "So she slipped on the stairs and came down."
                    
                    (Do you remember that one? They were all like that.)
                    Once out of Owego, we were soon in Waverley, a town say of ten or fifteen
                        thousand population, which we mistook at first for Elmira. Its streets were
                        so wide and clean, its houses so large and comfortable, we saw on entering.
                        I called Franklin's attention to the typical American atmosphere of
                        this town too—the America of a slightly older day. There was a time not long
                        ago when Americans felt that the beginning and end of all things was the
                        home. Not anything great in construction or tragically magnificent, but just
                        a comfortable home in which to grow and vegetate. Everything had to be
                        sacrificed to it. It came to have a sacrosanct character: all the art, the
                        joy, the hope which a youthful and ingenuous people were feeling and
                        believing, expressed, or attempted to express themselves, in the home. It
                        was a place of great trees, numerous flowerbeds, a spacious lawn, French
                        windows, a square cupola, verandas, birdhouses. All the romance of a
                        youthful spirit crept into these things and still lingers. You can feel as
                        you look at them how virtuous the owners felt themselves to be, and how
                        perfect their children, what marvels of men and women these latter were to
                        become—pure and above reproach.
                    Alas for a dusty world that would not permit it—that will never permit any
                        perfect thing to be. These houses, a little faded now, a little puffy with
                        damp, a little heavier for paint, a little grey or brown or greenish black,
                        suggest by their atmosphere that they have yielded up crops of children. We
                        have seen several generations go by since they were built. Have they been
                        any better than their sires, if as good? It seems to me as if I myself have
                        witnessed a great revolt against all the binding perfection which these
                        lovely homes represented. In my youthful day it was taken for granted that
                        we were to be good and beautiful and true, and God was to reward us in
                        heaven. We were to die and go straight before the throne of grace. Each of
                        us was to take one wife or one husband to our heart and hearth. We were
                        never  to swindle or steal or lie or do
                        anything wrong whatsoever. America was to make the sermon on the mount come
                        true—and look at us. Have we done it?
                    I call attention to Pittsburg, Chicago, and New York, to go no further: to
                        the orgies of trust building, stock gambling, stock watering, get rich
                        quick-ing; to the scandals of politics and finance; to the endless divorces
                        and remarriages and all the license of the stage and the hungry streets of
                        harlots and kept women. Have we made the ten commandments work? Do not these
                        small towns with their faded ideal homes stand almost as Karnak and
                        Memphis—in their frail way pointing the vanity of religious and moral ideals
                        in this world? We have striven for some things but not the ideals of the
                        sermon on the mount. Our girls have not been virtuous beyond those of any
                        other nation—our boys more honest than those of any other land. We have
                        simply been human, and a little more human for being told that we were not
                        or ought not to be so.
                    In Waverley, despite the fact that we had determined to reach Elmira before
                        stopping for dinner, we became suddenly hungry and while
                        "cruising," as Speed put it, down the principal street,
                        about three quarters of a mile long, with various stores and movies in full
                        swing, we discovered an irresistible "lunch car" crowded
                        in between two buildings. Inside was the usual "hash
                        slinger," at his pots and pans. He was a swarthy skinned
                        black-haired youth, this impresario with a penchant for doing his work
                        gallantly, like an acrobat. He had nothing to offer save pork and beans, ham
                        and eggs, various sandwiches, and one kind of pie. All the remainder of his
                        stock had been disposed of. I ordered ham and eggs—somehow in small towns I
                        always feel safest in so doing. It was amusing to watch him
                        "flip" an egg with a turn of the wrist and at the same
                        time hold bantering converse with a frowsy headed youth whose face was
                        pressed to a small porthole giving out onto the sidewalk. Every now and
                        then, as we were eating, some familiar of the town would tap on the window
                        to give evidence of his  passing, and soon the
                        place was invaded by five evening roysterers, smart boys of the town, who
                        made all sorts of quips and jests as to the limited bill of fare.
                    "How about a whole egg? Have you got one?"
                    "Do you ever keep any salt and pepper here, Jake?"
                    "Somebody said you'd have a new pie, tomorrow. Is that
                        right?"
                    "What's the matter with the old one?" inquired
                        someone.
                    "Why, a feller bit into it by mistake. They're
                        goin' to sell it to the shootin' gallery for a
                        target."
                    "Why don't you fellers get up a new line o'
                        dope?" interjected the host at one place. "My pies
                        ain't in it with what you're
                        springin'."
                    This drew a laugh and more chatter.
                    As I sat on a stool looking out and munching my "ham-and" I
                        could not help thinking of the high spirits of all these towns we were
                        passing. In Europe, in places of four or five times the size of
                        this—Rotterdam, Amsterdam, The Hague, Dover, Amiens, Florence, Perugia, even
                        Venice, I might say, I found no such flare nor any such zest for just
                        living. What is it about Americans that gives all their small towns such an
                        air? Somebody had already introduced the five-light lamp standard here, in
                        one or two places. The stores were all brightly lighted and you could see
                        boys and girls going up and down in the hope of those chance encounters with
                        adventure which youths and maidens of all strata so crave. Noting all this,
                        I said to myself that in Europe somehow, in towns of this size and much
                        larger, things always seemed duller. Here in America there are always these
                        boys and girls of no particular social caste, I take it, whose homes are
                        not, very attractive, whose minds and bodies are craving a touch of
                        vitality—gay contact with someone of the other sex—and who find their social
                        life in this way, on the streets. No doubt at this point someone will rise
                        to say that they need more supervision. I am not so sure. As life expresses
                        itself, so it should be, I fancy. All my sympathies go out to such young
                        people,  for I recall with what earnestness as
                        a boy I used to do this same thing—how I wished and longed and how my body
                        tingled at the thoughts of love and the promise of life to come.
                    Once on the road again, I hummed and meditated until suddenly I found myself
                        dreaming. I wasn't on the high road between Binghamton and Elmira
                        at all but in some happy land that hadn't anything to do with
                        motoring—a land of youth and affection. Suddenly I sat up, wondering whether
                        I had keeled over toward Franklin, and he had discovered that I had been
                        asleep.
                    "We don't have to spend the night in Elmira, do
                        we?" I ventured cautiously.
                    "Oh, no," said Franklin, amiably.
                    "Since it's so late, the next hotel we come to,
                        we'd better tie up, don't you think,—I'm getting
                        sleepy."
                    "All right for me," agreed Franklin I couldn't
                        tell whether he was sleepy or not.
                    Presently a great square old house came into view with trees and flowers and
                        a light burning before it. It was so still now we seemed to have the night
                        all to ourselves. No automobiles were in sight. We debated whether we would
                        stay here.
                    "Oh, let's risk it," said Franklin.
                        "It's only for one night, anyhow."
                    We were greeted by a tall, angular country boy with the air of one who is
                        half asleep and a habit of running his hand through his hair. He had been
                        serving three men in the rear with drinks. He led us up warm, stuffy,
                        carpeted halls, lighted by oil lamps, into a small, musty chamber with a
                        large, yellow, creaky bed. This and another similar apartment for Speed were
                        all he could offer us.
                    It was hot. A few mosquitoes were buzzing. Still the prospect of a deep black
                        sky and stars through the open window was soothing. I made a few joyless
                        comments, which Franklin received in silence; and then we slept.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    CHEMUNG
                    NEXT morning I was aroused at dawn, it seemed to me, by a
                        pounding on a nearby door.
                    "Get up, you drunken hound!" called a voice which was
                        unmistakably that of the young man who had rented us the room.
                        "That's right, snore, after you stay up all
                        night," he added; and he beat the door vehemently again.
                    I wanted to get up and protest against his inconsiderateness of the slumber
                        of others and would have, I think, only I was interested to discover who the
                        "drunken hound" might be and why this youth should be so
                        abrupt with him. After all, I reflected, we were in a very poor hotel, the
                        boy doing the knocking was a mere farm hand translated to the country hotel
                        business, and anyhow we should soon be out of here. It was all life and
                        color and if I didn't like it I needn't have stayed here
                        the night before. Franklin would have gone on. But who was the
                        "drunken hound"? The sound had ceased almost as abruptly
                        as it had begun. The boy had gone downstairs. After awhile the light grew
                        stronger and Franklin seemed to stir. I rose and pulled the shutters to, but
                        could not sleep any more. The world outside looked so inviting. There were
                        trees and great fields of grass and a few white houses scattered here and
                        there and a heavy dew. I at once thought how delightful it would be to get
                        up and ride on again.
                    "This is a typical middle west country hotel, even if it is in New
                        York,"said Franklin, sitting up and running his hand through his
                        tousled hair. "That fellow he's calling a
                        'drunken hound' must be his father. I heard him tell Speed
                        last night that his father slept in there."
                    
                    Presently we threw open the shutters and made what use we could of the bowl
                        and pitcher and the two small towels provided.
                    "How did you ever come to be an artist, Franklin?" I
                        inquired idly, as I watched him stare out at the surrounding fields, while
                        he sat putting on his shoes. "You told me once that you were a farm
                        hand until you were nearly twentyfive."
                    "Nearly twentysix," he corrected. "Oh, I always
                        wanted to draw and did, a little, only I didn't know anything about
                        it. Finally I took a course in a correspondence school."
                    "Get out," I replied incredulously.
                    "Yes, I did," he went on. "They sent me
                        instructions how to lay in with pen and ink various sorts of line technique
                        on sheets of paper that were ruled off in squares—long lines, short lines,
                        stipple, 'crosspatch' and that sort of thing. They made
                        some other suggestions that had some value: what kind of ink and pens and
                        paper to buy. I used to try to draw with ordinary writing ink and
                        pens."
                    "But a correspondence school—" I protested.
                    "I know," he said. "It seems ridiculous.
                        It's true, just the same. I didn't know where else to go
                        and besides I didn't have the money. There was a school in
                        Indianapolis but they wanted too much—I tried it awhile but the instructor
                        knew very little. The correspondence school wanted only six dollars for
                        fifteen lessons, and they took it in part payments."
                    He smiled reminiscently.
                    "Well, how did you come to get started, finally?"
                    "Oh, I worked most of my method out for myself. Art is a matter of
                        feeling, anyhow. The drawing in squares gave me an idea which made me
                        abandon the squares. I used to write poetry too, of sorts—or tried to—and one
                        day I wrote a poem and decided to illustrate it and take it down to one of
                        the Indianapolis newspapers, because I had seen others in there somewhat
                        like it—I mean illustrated in pen and ink. It was a poem about  October, or something. My father thought I
                        was wasting my time. He wanted me to tend the farm. But I took the poem down
                        and they bought it right away—gave me six dollars for it."
                    "And then what?" I asked, deeply interested.
                    "Well, that rather astonished my father—as much, if not more, than it
                        did me. He never imagined there was any money in that sort of thingand
                        unless you were going to make money—" He waved his hand
                        deprecatively.
                    "I know," I agreed. "And then what?"
                    "Well, they bought another and my father began to think there was
                        something in it—in art, you know, if you want to call it that, in Indiana, at
                        that time!"—he paused. "Still I can't tell you how
                        much feeling I put in those things, either,—the trees, the birds flying, the
                        shocked corn. I used to stop when I was plowing or reaping and stand and
                        look at the sky and the trees and the clouds and wish I could paint them or
                        do something. The big cities seemed so far off. But it's Indiana
                        that seems wonderful to me now."
                    "And to me," I said. "Like a mother. Because we
                        were brought up there, I suppose."
                    Sitting on the edge of this wretched hotel bed, Franklin smiled vaguely, his
                        fine hand moving through his glistening white hair.
                    "And then?"
                    "Well, one day the editor in Indianapolis said I ought to send some
                        of my drawing down to New York, or go down—that I would get along. He thought
                        I ought to study art."
                    "Yes?"
                    "Well, I saved enough drawing for the Indianapolis
                            News and writing poetry and pitching hay and plowing wheat to go
                        that autumn to Chicago; I spent three months in the Art Institute. Being in
                        those days a good Sunday School boy, a publisher of religious literature,
                        socalled, bought some work of me and at Christmas time I sold a half page to
                        the old Chicago Record. The following  fall I
                        went to New York. I found a little room and sold sketches, and then I got on
                        a paper—the News. You remember."
                    "Certainly. Was that your first place?"
                    "The very first."
                    "And I thought you had been in New York years and
                        years."
                    I can see Franklin even yet, standing before his drawingboard in the
                        newspaper office, making horrible Sunday "layouts," He was
                        so gentle, good looking and altogether attractive.
                    "Yes, and then what?"
                    "Well, after my year's contract which started with the News had expired, I tried freelancing. This
                        didn't go very well; so I determined not to spend all my savings
                        visiting art editors. I boarded a boat one day and went to Europe. Four
                        months later, I returned to New York and rented a studio. After I had paid
                        my first month's rent I was broke. At the magazines I would say
                        that I had just returned from abroad, so that I got plenty of work, but I
                        owned neither easel nor chair. After a few days the janitor, if you please,
                        came to me and said that he and his wife had been talking about me and
                        thought perhaps I needed some money and that they had eighty dollars
                        upstairs which I could have right away if I wanted to use it. It sounds
                        wild, but it's true. They said I could take it and pay it back
                        whenever I got ready, in six months or a year or two years."
                    My estimate of poor old human nature was rapidly rising.
                    "Did you take it?"
                    "Yes, a part of it. I had to, in a way; but I paid it back in a
                        little while. I often think of those people."
                    We stopped talking about his career then and went down to look in the
                        diningroom and after our car. The place was so unsatisfactory and it was
                        still so early we decided not to remain for breakfast.
                    As I was sitting on the porch, Franklin having gone off to rout out Speed, an
                        automobile approached containing  a man and
                        three women and bearing a plumcolored pennant labeled "Lansing,
                        Michigan." Pennants seem to be a habit with cars coming from the
                        west. These tourists halted, and I was morally certain that they did so
                        because of my presence here. They thought others were breakfasting. With
                        much fluttering of their motoring regalia, the women stepped out and shook
                        themselves while their escort departed to make inquiries. Presently he
                        returned and with him our young host, who in the clear morning light seemed
                        much more a farmer than ever—a plow hand. Something about his crude,
                        untutored strength and energy appealed to me. I thought of his drunken
                        father and how he might be trying to make the best of this place, against
                        lack of experience and with a ne'er do well parent on his hands.
                        Now he fixed me with a steady eye.
                    "You people goin' to have breakfast?" he
                        asked.
                    "No," I replied, pleasantly.
                    "You ain't?"
                    "No."
                    "Well," he went on, turning to the newcomers,
                        "then you people can have
                        breakfast."
                    So, I thought, these people will have to eat the very poor breakfast that is
                        being prepared for us. It will serve them right—the vulgar, showy creatures.
                        As we were departing, however, Franklin explained that there was an extra
                        charge which he had not troubled to dispute, for something which we had
                        apparently not had. I explained that it was for the meal we had not
                        eaten.
                    Once more, then, we drove off along more of those delightful country roads
                        which in the early morning sun, with the fields glistening with dew, and
                        laborers making their way to work, and morning birds on the wing, were too
                        lovely. The air, after our stuffy room, was so refreshing, I began to sing. Little white houses hugged distant green
                        hillsides, their windows shining like burnished gold. Green branches hung
                        over and almost brushed our faces. The sky, the shade, the dew was heavenly.
                        I thought of Franklin and his father and of 
                        him in his father's fields at dawn, looking at the trees—those fog
                        wrapped trees of dawn—and wishing he was an artist.
                    Meanwhile, my mind was busy with the sharp contrast this whole progress was
                        presenting to my tour of Europe, even the poorest and most deserted regions
                        I visited. In England, France, Germany, Italy, Holland, Belgium,
                        Switzerland, there was so much to see—so much that was memorable or quaint or
                        strange or artistic—but here; well, here there were just towns like this one
                        and Binghamton and Scranton and Wilkes-Barré, places the best for which you
                        could say was that they were brisk and vivid and building something which in
                        the future will no doubt seem very beautiful,—I'm sure of it.
                    And yet I kept saying to myself that notwithstanding all this, all I could
                        sum up against America even, it was actually better than Europe. And why?
                        Well, because of a certain indefinable something—either of hope or courage or
                        youth or vigor or illusion, what you will; but the average American, or the
                        average European transplanted to America, is a better or at least a more
                        dynamic person than the average European at home, even the Frenchman. He has
                        more grit, verve, humor, or a lackadaisical slapdash method which is at once
                        efficient, self-sustaining, comforting. His soul, in spite of all the chains
                        wherewith the ruling giants are seeking to fetter him, is free. As yet,
                        regardless of what is or may be, he does not appear to realize that he is
                        not free or that he is in any way oppressed. There are no ruling classes, to
                        him. He sings, whistles, jests, laughs boisterously; matches everybody for
                        cigars, beers, meals; chews tobacco, spits freely, smokes, swears, rolls to
                        and fro, cocks his hat on one side of his head, and altogether by and large
                        is a regular "hell of a feller." He doesn't know
                        anything about history, or very little, and doesn't give a damn. He
                        doesn't know anything about art,—but, my God, who with the eternal
                        hills and all nature for a background cannot live without representative
                        art? His food isn't extraordinarily good, though plentiful, his  clothes are made by Stein-Bloch, or Hart,
                        Schaffner & Marx, and altogether he is a noisy, blatant, contented
                        mess—but oh, the gay, selfsufficient soul of him! no moans! no tears! Into
                        the teeth of destiny he marches, whistling "Yankee Doodle"
                        or "Turkey in the Straw." In the parlance of his own
                        streets, "Can you beat him?"
                    Nevertheless my sympathies kept reverting to the young innkeeper and I
                        finally got out a map to see if I could discover the name of the very
                        small-town or crossroads where this hotel was situated. It proved to be
                        Chemung.
                    Instantly I recalled the story of a gubernatorial aspirant of twenty years
                        before who had come from this very place or county in New York. Previously a
                        district attorney or lieutenant governor, he had one day been nominated for
                        the governorship, on the reigning ticket. His chances were splendid. There
                        was scarcely a cloud in the sky. He was believed to be brilliant, promising,
                        a presidential possibility of the future. An important meeting was called in
                        New York, I believe, at Madison Square Garden very likely, to ratify and
                        celebrate his nomination. All the élite politically who customarily grace
                        such events were present. The Garden was filled. But, alas, at the sound of
                        the applause called forth by his opening burst of oratory, he paused and
                        took off his coat—quite as he would at an upstate rally, here in Chemung. The
                        audience gasped. The sophisticated leaders of the city groaned. What! Take
                        off your coat at a political address in Madison Square Garden? A candidate
                        for governorship of the state of New York? It completely destroyed him. He
                        was never heard of more. I, a mere stripling at the time, brooded long over
                        this sudden turn of fortune as exemplifying a need to discriminate between
                        audiences and classes. It put a cool, jesuitical thought in my mind that I
                        did not soon forget. "Never remove your coat in the wrong
                        place," was a maxim that dwelt with me for some time. And here we
                        were in Chemung, the place to which this man subsequently retired, to
                        meditate, no doubt, over the  costly follies
                        and errors we sometimes commit without the ability or the knowledge to guard
                        against them.
                    An hour and a half later we were having breakfast at Elmira, a place much
                        like Binghamton, in the customary "Rathskeller-Grill-Café de
                        Berlin." This one was all embossed with gold paper and Teutonic
                        hunting scenes, and contained the usual heavy mission tables, to say nothing
                        of a leftover smell of cigarettes burned the night before. There were negro
                        waiters too, and another group of motorists having a most elaborate
                        breakfast and much talk of routes and cars and distant cities. Here it was
                        necessary for us to decide the course of our future progress, so we shortly
                        set off in search of the local automobile club.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    CHICKEN AND WAFFLES AND THE TOON O' BATH
                    WE found an official of the Elmira Automobile Club, a
                        small, stoop-shouldered, bald, eye-sockety person who greeted us with a
                        genial rub of his hands and a hearty smirk as though we were just the persons, among all others, whom he was most pleased to
                        see.
                    "Come right in, gentlemen," he called, as Franklin and I
                        appeared in the doorway. "What can I do for you? Looking for maps
                        or a route or something?"
                    "Tell me," I inquired, anxious to make my point at once,
                        "are there any good roads due west of here which would take us
                        straight into Ohio, without going north to Buffalo?"
                    He scratched his head.
                    "No, I don't think there are," he replied;
                        "most of the good roads are north of here, around Rochester, where
                        the main line of traffic is. Now there is a good road—or a part of
                        one"—and then he commenced a long rambling account of some road that
                        was about to be built—but as yet—etc., etc. I saw my idea of a somewhat
                        different trip going glimmering.
                    "But here," he went on, picking up one of those maps which
                        various hotels and towns combine to get up to attract automobile trade,
                        "what's the matter with the Onondaga trail from here on?
                        That takes you up through Corning, Bath, Avoca, Dansville, Geneseo, and
                        Avon, and up there you strike the main road through Batavia right into
                        Buffalo. That's a fine road, good hard macadam nearly all the way,
                        and when you get to Avon you strike one of the best hotels anywhere. When
                        you get up there you just roll your car right into the grounds—walk into the
                        restaurant and ask 'em to give you 
                        some of their chicken and waffles. You'll just be about ready for
                        it when you get there and you'll thank me for telling
                        you."
                    I fancied I could see the cloven hoof of the Avon hotel keeper mystically
                        present in that speech. However, far to the left on another branch of the
                        same trail I saw my beloved Warsaw, New York.
                    "What's the matter with the road up through here?"
                        I asked, putting my finger on it.
                    "Well, I'll tell you," he said, "there it
                        is mostly dirt and there are no good dirt roads as you know, if
                        you've autoed much. A man called up here this morning and wanted to
                        know if there were any good dirt roads out of here to Utica and I said to
                        him, 'My dear sir, there aren't any good dirt roads
                        anywhere. There ain't any such thing.'"
                    I seemed to see the Avon hotel keeper smiling and beckoning once more—a
                        chicken in one hand, a plate of waffles in the other—but he didn't
                        appeal to me at all. These hotel routes and these Americans who are so quick
                        to capitalize everything—motor routes, scenery, water falls, everything!
                        "Curses, curses, curses," I said to myself softly,
                        "why must everything be turned into business?" Besides,
                        many portions of the roads over which we had come in New Jersey and
                        Pennsylvania were dirt and they were excellent. I smiled serenely,
                        determined to make the best of whatever happened and however much I might
                        want to go to Warsaw, New York.
                    But our friend seemed determined to send us via Avon and Batavia. He went on
                        telling us how anxious he had been to convince the man who had telephoned
                        that there were no good dirt roads, but I was happy to note that apparently
                        he had not been successful. The man probably knew something about state and
                        dirt roads, as we had found them, and refused to take his direction. I was
                        pleased to think that whatever Franklin might be concluding, because of his
                        advice, we still had some distance yet to travel before we would have to
                        decide not to go tc Warsaw—all of seventyfive or a hundred miles 
                        
                            BEYOND ELMIRA Early morning
                        
                         anyhow. For, extending that distance our
                        proposed route was directly toward Warsaw, and that cheered me a bit.
                    And now beyond Elmira for a distance of one hundred and twenty miles or more,
                        all the way into Warsaw, we had one of the most delightful days of any—a
                        perfectly heavenly day, the weather so fine, the sky so blue, and not a
                        tinge of anything save harvesting weather anywhere. As we rolled along the
                        sound of the reaper was heard in the land—great mechanical combinations of
                        engines and threshers and grain separators and straw stack builders—a great
                        flume or trough reaching high in the air and carrying out the grainless
                        straw and chaff, blowing it on a single mound. It was really wonderful to
                        see America's daily bread being garnered mile after mile, and mile
                        after mile.
                    And the marvelous herds of cattle, mostly Holstein, which yield the milk
                        supply for the trains that pour nightly and daily towards that vast plexus
                        of cities called New York, with its eight million people.
                    In this Pennsylvania-New York valley alone, which seemed to stretch unbroken
                        from Wilkes-Barré to western New York, from the Chesapeake really to the
                        falls of the Geneseo, there were indeed cattle on a thousand hills.
                    There was too much traffic along the first portion of the road out of Elmira
                        and by now I was beginning to get an idea of the magnitude of the revolution
                        which the automobile had effected. Thirty years ago these roads would have
                        been traveled as elsewhere, if at all, by wagons and buggies, but now on
                        this Saturday morning the ways were crowded with farmers coming to town in
                        automobiles, or as Speed always put it, "in autos and
                        Fords." Why this useful little machine should be sniffed at is a
                        puzzle to me, for it seemed to look nearly as well and to travel quite as
                        fast as any of the others. The farmers were using it as a family
                        carryall—taking in sacks of wheat or other products to town and bringing home
                        groceries and other needfuls.
                    
                    In Corning, a town of about ten or twelve thousand population, some twenty
                        miles west of Elmira, we found a city as prosperous as most of the others
                        apparently, and as nave. It being Saturday, the natives from the surrounding
                        country were beginning to come in, but I did not notice any of that rural
                        flavor which had seemed to characterize them in my youth. On leaving every
                        town where we had loitered too long we made a solemn pact that we would not
                        waste so much time in unimportant towns that were nearly all alike; but
                        whenever one rose into view and we dashed into a principal street lined with
                        stores and crowded with people, it was beyond human nature not to get out
                        and look around a little. There was always the excuse of picture cards for a
                        record of our trip, or meals or a drink of some kind or even popcorn
                        (Franklin's favorite), or peanuts or candy. Think of it—three grown
                        men getting out to buy candy!
                    Here in Corning it was that I first noticed that Franklin had a peculiarly
                        sharp nose and eye for ferreting out ideal rural types. Those who have read
                        Hamlin Garland's "Main Traveled Roads" will
                        understand instantly what I mean—not the crude, obvious, one might almost say
                        burlesque types, but those more difficult and pathetic characters who do
                        their best not to seem to be of the country and yet who are always so
                        obviously of it. I tried my best, as Franklin nudged my arm at different
                        times, to formulate to myself what it is about these interesting
                        individuals—the boy or woman or young man from the country—dressed in those
                        peculiarly new and store-y store clothes that makes them so appealing and so
                        pathetic to me. In "Main Traveled Roads" one gets a sense
                        of it all. Times have changed a little since then and yet here were the same
                        types—the red-cheeked, wideeyed boy in the new brown suit and twentyfive cent
                        hat looking at people as if all the world and its every gesture were a
                        surprise, and the women walking about streets impossible, one must say, from
                        a social and intellectual point of view, trying to look as if they had
                        something to do and some place to go. I always suspect them of  eating their meals in some wagon back of some
                        store—a cold snack brought along for the occasion or asking the privilege of
                        adding a few things out of a basket to the repast provided, say, by a glass
                        of ice-cream soda.
                    Oh, the lovely roads by which they came, the sylvan nooks where their homes
                        are, the small schoolhouses, the wide spacious fields with crows and
                        blackbirds and bluejays for company, the grey snowy fields in winter, these
                        black filigree trees for a border—and the great cities which haunt the dreams
                        of these boys and girls and finally lure so many of them away.
                    Beyond Corning came more delightful small towns, "Painted
                        Post," with a church so singularly plain, a small spire so thin and
                        tall that it was truly beautiful; Campbell, with one of these typical rural
                        streets of homes which make you wish that you might stay for days, visiting
                        country relatives; Savona, a hot country store street where Speed stopped
                        for oil and gas. Anent Savona, which hadn't a tree to bless itself
                        with, where Franklin and I sat and baked while Speed replenished his stores,
                        Franklin told me the story of why the principal street of Carmel, his home
                        town, was treeless. Once there had been trees there, beautiful ones, but
                        with the arrival of the metropolitan spirit and a desire to catch passing
                        automobile trade it was decided to widen the street somewhat and make it
                        more commercial and therefore more attractive. The idea which first popped
                        into the minds of all who desired metropolitan improvement was that the
                        trees should come down.
                    "Why?" asked some lover of the trees as things of
                        beauty.
                    "Well, you don't see any trees in Main Street,
                        Indianapolis, do you?" replied another triumphantly.
                    The battle was lost and won right there—Main Street, Indianapolis, was the
                        criterion. "Are we going to be like Indianapolis—or Chicago or New
                        York—or are we not?" I can hear some sturdy rural asking.
                        "If not, let the trees stand."
                    What rural would save any tree as against being like  New York, I'd like to know. That is why, I suspect,
                        we baked for fifteen minutes in Savona.
                    And then came "the toon o' Bath," as we forever
                        after called it, for a reason which will appear,—a dear, lovely, summery
                        town, with a square so delightful that on sight of it we instantly got out
                        and loitered in the shade for over an hour, in spite of our resolution.
                    Here in the east, for some reason, this idea of a plain green open square,
                        without any execrable reproduction of an American Civil War soldier perched
                        high aloft on a tall shaft, has remained untainted. Wilkes-Barré, New
                        Milford, Owego and now Bath had one, and in New England and New Jersey I
                        have seen scores. The county offices are as a rule put around it, but not in
                        it, as is the rule farther west.
                    In the west—everywhere west of Pennsylvania and sometimes east of it—a public
                        square is not complete without a courthouse or at least a soldiers'
                        or sailors' monument—or both—planted in the centre of it, and these
                        almost an exact reproduction of every other courthouse or monument for one
                        thousand miles about. The idea of doing anything original is severely
                        frowned upon. Whatever else you may be in America or elsewhere, apparently
                        you must not be different. Hold fast to the type, and do as your ancestors
                        did! Build all courthouses and monuments as courthouses and monuments should
                        be built—that is, true to tradition. If you don't believe this,
                        visit any countyseat between New York and Seattle.
                    But this square, in Bath, like some others in New England and that in Owego,
                        was especially pleasing because it had no courthouse and no monuments,
                        merely a bandstand and a great spread of benches placed under wide-armed and
                        sturdy trees. Under their high branches, which spread as a canopy over the
                        walks and benches below, were festooned, on wires, a number of lights for
                        the illumination of the place at night. About it, on the different sides,
                        were residences, churches, a public school, some county offices, and to the
                        east stores, all with a 
                        
                            FRANKLIN DREAMS OVER A RIVER BEYOND SAVONA
                        
                         peaceful, rural flavor. Several farmer
                        families were eating their meals from baskets as they sat in wagons, their
                        horses unhitched and fastened behind. On the benches were seated a number of
                        old soldiers idling in the shade. Why old soldiers should be so numerous at
                        this day and date was more than I could understand, and I said so. It was
                        now fiftyfour years since the war began, and here they were, scores of them
                        apparently, all fairly hale and looking scarcely sixtyfive. They must have
                        been at least seventy years each to have been of any service in the great
                        war of the rebellion.
                    Near here, we discovered, there was an old soldiers' home—a state
                        home—and this being Saturday afternoon, the streets were full of them. They
                        looked to be a crotchety, cantankerous crew. Later on we saw many of them in
                        the road leading out to their institution—drunk. In order to strike up a
                        conversation with some of the old soldiers, we asked three of them sitting
                        on a bench about a drunken woman who was pirouetting before them in a
                        frowzy, grimy gaiety.
                    "That," said one, a little, thin-shouldered, clawy type of
                        man with a high, cracked voice, a clownish expression, and a laugh as
                        artificial and mechanical as any laugh could be, a sort of standard,
                        everyday habit laugh, "Oh, that's the Pete and
                        Duck." (I give it as it sounded.)
                    "The Pete and Duck!" I exclaimed.
                    "Yes, sir, the Pete and Duck"—and then came the high,
                        cackling, staccato laugh. "That's what they call her round
                        here, the Pete and Duck. I dunno howsoever they come to call her that, but
                        that's what they call her, the Pete and Duck, and a drunken old — she
                        is, too,—just an old drunken girl"—and then he went off into a gale
                        of pointless laughter, slapping his knees and opening his mouth very
                        wide.
                    "That's all I've ever hearn her called.
                        Ain't that so, Eddie—he, he! ho, ho! ha, ha! Yes—that's what
                        they allus call 'er—the Pete and Duck. She's
                        nothin' but just a poor old drunken fool like many another in this
                        here toon o' Bath—he, he! ho, ho! ha, ha!
                    
                    "But then she ain't the only funny thing in Bath neither.
                        There's a buildin' they're puttin' up
                        over there," he continued, "that has front and back but no
                        sides—the only buildin' in the toon o' Bath that
                        ain't got no sides but just front and back. He, he! ha, ha! ho,
                        ho!"
                    We looked in the direction of this building, but it was nothing more than an
                        ordinary store building, being erected between two others by the party wall
                        process. It was a bank, apparently, and the front was being put together out
                        of white marble.
                    "Yes, sir, the only buildin' in the toon o' Bath
                        that ain't got no sides, but just front and back," and he
                        lapsed again into his vacant, idle laughter. Evidently he had been given
                        over to the task of making sport, or trying to, out of the merest trifles
                        for so many years that he had lost all sense of proportion and value. The
                        least thing, where there was so little to be gay over, took on exaggerated
                        lines of the comic. He was full of unconsicous burlesque. Suddenly he added
                        with a touch of seriousness, "and they say that the front is
                        goin' to cost seventeen thousand dollars. Jee-hosaphat!"
                        He hung onto the "Jee" with breathless persistence. It was
                        really evident in this case that seventeen thousand dollars represented an
                        immense sum to his mind.
                    It was pathetic to see him sitting there in his faded, almost ragged clothes,
                        and all these other old lonely soldiers about. I began to feel the undertow
                        of this clanking farce called life. What a boneyard old age seems,
                        anyhow!
                    There was another old soldier, tall, heavy, oleaginous, with some kind of hip
                        trouble, who explained that he lived in Brooklyn up to the year previous,
                        and had been with Grant before Richmond and in the battle in the Wilderness.
                        These endless, ancient tales seemed a little pale just now beside the heavy
                        storms of battle raging in Europe. And I could not help thinking how utterly
                        indifferent life is to the individual. How trivial, and useless and
                        pointless we become in age! What's the good of all the clatter and
                        pathos and fuss about war  to these ancients?
                        How does patriotism and newspaper bluster and the fighting of other
                        men's battles avail them, now they are old? Here they were,
                        stranded, wrecked, forgotten. Who cares, really, what becomes of them? Fifty
                        years ago they were fawned upon for the moment as the saviors of their
                        country. And now they hobble about such squares as this, condemned by the
                        smug gentry of small towns, despised for indulging in the one salve to
                        disillusioned minds and meditating on things that are no more. I wanted to
                        leave, and we soon did leave, anxious to feel the soothing waves of
                        change.
                    Although in Bath the sun seemed suddenly overcast by these reflections in
                        regard to the remorseless tread of time, outside, in the open fields, it was
                        as inspiriting as ever. A few miles out and we came to the banks of a small
                        river which flowed for a number of miles through this region, tumbling
                        thinly over rough boulders, or forming itself into deep, grey-green pools.
                        Gone were the ancient soldiers in blue, the miseries of a hag like
                        "the Pete and Duck." Just here the hills seemed to recede,
                        and the land was very flat, like a Dutch landscape. We came to a section of
                        the stream where it was sheltered by groves of trees which came to its very
                        edge, and by small thickets of scrub willow. Just below a little way, some
                        girls, one of them in a red jacket, were fishing. A little farther a few
                        Holstein cows were standing in the water, knee deep. It looked so inviting
                        that I began to urge that we all take a swim. A lovely bank coming into
                        view, and an iron bridge above, which was a poem among trees, Franklin was
                        inspired. "That looks rather inviting," he said.
                    As usual, Speed had something to do—heaven only knows what—polishing some
                        bolts, probably. But Franklin and I struck out through waving patterns of
                        ox-eye daisies and goldenrod to the drab and pea green willow groves, where,
                        amid rank growths of weeds and whitish pebbles and stones, we presently
                        reached the water's edge and a little hillock of grass at the foot
                        of a tree. Here on bushes and twigs we hung our clothes and  went out into the bright, tumbling waters.
                        The current was very swift, though very shallow—no deeper than just above the
                        knees. By clearing away the stones and lying down on the pebbles and sand
                        underneath, you could have the water race over you at breakneck speed, and
                        feel as though you were being fingered by mystic hands. It was about all we
                        could do, lying thus, to brace ourselves so that the stream would not keep
                        moving us on.
                    The sky, between the walls of green wood, was especially blue. The great
                        stones about us were all slippery with a thin, green moss, and yet so clean
                        and pretty, and the water gurgled and sipped. Lying on my back I could see
                        robins and bluejays and catbirds in the trees about. I amused myself kicking
                        my feet in the air and throwing stones at the farther bank and watching
                        Franklin's antics. He had a strong, lean white body, which showed
                        that it had been shaped in hayfields in his youth. His white hair and
                        straight nose made him look somewhat like an ancient Etruscan, stalking
                        about in the waters. We were undisturbed by any sound, and I could have
                        spent the rest of the day lying in this babbling current—it was so
                        warm—listening to the birds, watching the wind shake the leaves, and
                        contemplating the blue sky. It was so warm that when one sat up the wind and
                        sun soon dried the flesh. I was loath to leave.
                    
                    
                        THE "TOON O' BATH"
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    MR. HUBBARD AND AN AUTOMOBILE FLIRTATION
                    AVOCA, just beyond here, was a pleasant little town, with
                        a white church steeple drowsing in the afternoon sun. We tried to get
                        something to eat and couldn't—or rather could only obtain
                        sandwiches, curse them!—and ham sandwiches at that. My God, how I do hate ham
                        sandwiches when I am hungry enough to want a decent meal! And a place called
                        Arkport was not better, though we did get some bananas there—eight—and I
                        believe I ate them all. I forget, but I think I did. Franklin confined
                        himself almost exclusively to popcorn and candy!
                    At Avoca we learned of two things which altered our course considerably.
                    First, in leisurely dressing after our bath, Franklin began browsing over a
                        map to see where we were and what the name of this stream was, when suddenly
                        his eye lighted on the magic name of East Aurora. (Imagine a town named East Aurora!) Here had lived until recently (when the Lusitania went down he and his wife were drowned) a
                        certain Elbert Hubbard, author, publisher, lecturer, editor, manufacturer of
                        "art" furniture and articles of virtu, whose personal
                        characteristics and views seemed to have aroused more feverish interest in
                        the minds of a certain type of American than almost any other
                        man's, unless, perchance, it might have been William Jennings
                        Bryan's, or Billy Sunday's.
                    In my youth, when he was first writing his interesting "Little
                        Journeys to the Homes of Good Men and Great" (think of that for a
                        title!), I thought him wonderful too. I never heard of his stirring those
                        hard, sophisticated, unregerenate sanctums and halls of the  great cities where lurk the shrewd, the sharp
                        and evil, to say nothing of the dullest of the dull; but when it came to the
                        rural places, there he shone. In the realms of the vast and far flung
                        Chautauqua, with its halls and shrines of homage, he was au
                            fait, a real prophet. Here he was looked up to, admired, adored.
                        These people bought his furniture and read his books, and in the
                        entertainment halls of public schools, clubs, societies, circles for the
                        promotion of this, that, or the other, they quoted his thoughts. Personally,
                        I early outgrew Mr. Hubbard. He appealed to me for about four months, in my
                        twentyfourth or twentyfifth year, and then he was gone again. Later on his
                        Roycroft furniture, book bindings, lamps and the like came to have a savage
                        distaste to me. They seemed impossible, the height of the inane; but he went
                        on opening salesrooms in New York, Chicago and elsewhere, and increasing his
                        fame. He came to be little more than a shabby charlatan, like so many of
                        those other itinerant evangelists that infest America.
                    This great man had established himself years before, in this place called
                        East Aurora, near Buffalo, and there had erected what I always imagined were
                        extensive factories or studios, or mere rooms for the manufacture and
                        storage and sale of all the many products of art on which he put the stamp
                        of his approval. Here were printed all those rare and wonderful books in
                        limp leather and handstitched silk linings and a host of artistic blank
                        flyleaves, which always sickened me a little when I looked at them. Here
                        were sawed and planed and hand polished, no doubt, all the perfect woods
                        that went into his Roycroft furniture. Here were hammered and polished and
                        carefully shaped the various metals that went into his objects of art. I
                        always felt that really it must be a remarkable institution, though I cared
                        no whit for the books or furniture or objects of art. They were too
                        fixy.
                    In all his writings he was the preacher of the severe, the simple, the
                        durable—that stern beauty that has its birth in necessity, its continuance in
                        use. With all such  products, as he himself
                        was forever indicating, art was a by-product,—a natural outcome of the
                        perfection impulse of the life principle. Somewhere in all nature was
                        something which wanted and sought beauty, the clear, strong, natural beauty
                        of strength and necessity. Who shaped the tiger? Who gave perfection to the
                        lion? Behold the tree. See the hill. Were they not beautiful, and did they
                        not conform to the laws of necessity and conditional use? Verily,
                        verily.
                    Whenever I looked at any of his books or objects of art or furniture, while
                        they had that massiveness or durability or solidity which should be in
                        anything built for wear and severe use, they had something else which did
                        not seem to suggest these needs at all. There was a luxuriousness of polish
                        and ornamentation and inutile excrescence about them which irritated me
                        greatly. "Here is a struggle," I said to myself,
                        "to mix together two things which can never mix—oil and water,—luxury
                        and extreme, rugged durability." It was as if one took Abraham
                        Lincoln and dressed him in the drawingroom clothes of a fop, curling his
                        hair, perfuming his beard, encasing his feet in patent leather shoes, and
                        then said, "Gentlemen, behold the perfect man."
                    Well, behold him!
                    And so it was with this furniture and these art objects. They were log cabin
                        necessities decked out in all the gimcrackery of the Petit Trianon. They
                        weren't logcabin necessities any more, and they certainly bore no
                        close relationship to the perfection of a Heppelwhite or a Sheraton, or the
                        convincing charms of the great periods. They were just a combination of
                        country and city, as their inventor understood them, without having the real
                        merit of either, and to me they seemed to groan of their unhappy union. It
                        was as if a man had taken all the worst and best in American life and
                        fastened them together without really fusing them. It was a false idea. The
                        author of them was an artistic clown.
                    But when it came to the possibility of seeing his place I was interested
                        enough. Only a few weeks before the  country
                        had been ringing with the news of his death and the tragedy of it. Long,
                        appreciative editorials had appeared in all our American papers (on what
                        subjects will not the American papers write long, appreciative editorials!).
                        So I was interested, as was Franklin. He suggested going to East Eurora, and
                        I was pleased to note that if we went there we would have to go through
                        Warsaw, New Yor. That settled it. I agreed at once.
                    Another thing that we discussed at Avoca was that if we took the best road
                        from there and followed it to Portageville, we would be in the immediate
                        vicinity of the Falls of the Genesco, "and they're as fine
                        as anything I ever see in America," was the way one countryman put
                        it. "I've seen Niagara and them falls down there on the
                        Big Kanawha in West Virginia, but I never expect to see anything finer than
                        these." It was the village blacksmith and garage owner of Avoca who
                        was talking. And Portageville was right on the road to Warsaw and East
                        Aurora.
                    We were off in a trice—ham sandwiches in hand.
                    It was while we were speeding out of Arkport and on our way to Canaseraga and
                        the Falls of the Geneseo that I had my first taste of what might be called
                        an automobile flirtation. It was just after leaving Arkport and while we
                        were headed for a town called Canaseraga that we caught up with and passed
                        three maids in a machine somewhat larger than our own, who were being
                        piloted at a very swift pace by a young chauffeur. It is a rule of the road
                        and a state law in most states that unless a machine wishes to keep the lead
                        by driving at the permitted speed it must turn to the right to permit any
                        machine approaching from the rear and signaling to pass.
                    Most chauffeurs and all passengers I am sure resent doing this. It is a cruel
                        thing to have to admit that any machine can go faster than yours or that you
                        are in the mood to take the dust of anyone. Still if a machine is trailing
                        you and making a great row for you to give way, what can you do, unless you
                        seek open conflict and possibly disaster—a wreck—for chauffeurs and owners are
                             occasionally choleric souls and like to
                        pay out stubborn, greedy "road hogs," even if in paying
                        them out you come to grief yourself. Franklin had just finished a legal
                        argument of this kind some few weeks before, he told us, in which some man
                        who would not give the road and had been "sideswiped" by
                        his car (Franklin being absent and his chauffeur who was out riding
                        choleric) had been threatening to bring suit for physical as well as
                        material injury. It was this threat to sue for physical injuries which
                        brought about a compromise in Franklin's favor, for it is against
                        the law to threaten anyone, particularly by mail, as in this instance; and
                        so Franklin, by threatening in return, was able to escape.
                    Be that as it may, these three maids, or their chauffeur, when we first came
                        up refused to give the road, although they did increase their speed in an
                        effort to keep it. One of them, a gay creature in a pink hat, looked back
                        and half smiled at our discomfiture. I took no more interest in her than did
                        any of the others apparently, at the time, for in a situation of this kind
                        how is one to tell which is the favored one?
                    As an able chauffeur, the master of a good machine, and the ex-leader of the
                        Lincoln Highway procession for a certain distance, how was a man like Speed
                        to take a rebuff like this? Why, as all good and true chauffeurs should, by
                        increasing his own speed and trailing them so close and making such a row
                        that they would have to give way. This he did and so for a distance of three
                        or four miles we were traveling in a cloud of dirt and emitting a perfect
                        uproar of squawks. In consequence we finally were permitted to pass, not
                        without certain unkind and even contemptuous looks flung in our direction,
                        as who should say: "You think yourselves very smart, don't
                        you?"—although in the case of the maiden in the pink hat it did not
                        seem to me that her rage was very great. She was too amused and cheerful. I
                        sat serene and calm, viewing the surrounding landscape, only I could not
                        help noting that the young ladies were quite attractive and that the one in
                        the pink hat was interested  in someone in our
                        car—Speed or Franklin, I decided—preferably Franklin, since he looked so very
                        smart in his carefully cut clothes. I did not think it could be myself. As
                        for Speed, mustachios up and a cigarette between his teeth, he looked far
                        too handsome to condescend to flirt with a mere country—heiress, say. These
                        chauffeurs—you know! But a little later, as we were careening along, having
                        attained a good lead as we thought and taking our ease, what should come
                        trailing up behind us but this same car, making a great clatter, and because
                        of a peculiar wide width of road and our loitering mood, passing us before
                        we could say "Jack Robinson." Again the maid in the pink
                        hat smiledit seemed to me—but at whom? And again Speed bustled to the task of
                        overtaking them. I began to sit up and take notice.
                    What a chase! There was a big, frail iron bridge over a rocky, shallow stream
                        somewhere, which carried a sign reading: "Bridge weak, walk your
                        horses. Speed limit four miles an hour." I think we crossed it in
                        one bound. There was a hollow where the road turned sharply under a
                        picturesque cliff and a house in a green field seemed to possess especial
                        beauty because of a grove of pines. At another time I would have liked to
                        linger here. A sign read: "Danger ahead. Sharp Curve. Go
                        Slow." We went about it as if we were being pursued by the devil
                        himself. Then came a rough place of stone somewhere, where ordinarily Speed
                        would have slowed down and announced that he would "like to have a
                        picture of this road." Do you think we slowed down this time? Not
                        much. We went over it as if it were as smooth as glass. I was nearly jounced
                        out of the car.
                    Still we did not catch up, quite. The ladies or the chauffeur or all were
                        agreed apparently to best us, but we trailed them close and they kept
                        looking back and laughing at us. The pink-hatted one was all dimples.
                    "There you are, Mr. Dreiser," called Speed.
                        "She's decided which one she wants. She doesn't
                        seem to see any of the rest of us."
                    
                    Speed could be horribly flattering at times.
                    "No," I said, "without a mustache or a cigarette
                        or a long Napoleonic lock over my brow, never. It's Franklin
                        here."
                    Franklin smiled—as Julius Csar might have smiled.
                    "Which one is it you're talking about?" he
                        inquired innocently.
                    "Which one?—you sharp!" I scoffed. "Don't
                        come the innocent, guileless soul on me. You know whom she's
                        looking at. The rest of us haven't a chance."
                    Inwardly I was wondering whether by any chance freak of fancy she could have
                        taken a tentative interest in me. While there is life—you know!
                    Alas, they beat us and for awhile actually disappeared because of a too rough
                        stretch at one point and then, as I had given up all hope of seeing them any
                        more, there they were, just a little ahead of us, in the midst of a most
                        beatific landscape; and they were loitering—yes, they were!—people can loiter,
                        even in motors.
                    My mind was full of all the possibilities of a gay, cheerful flirtation.
                        Whose wouldn't be, on a summery evening like this, with a car full
                        of girls and one bolder and prettier than the others, smiling back at you.
                        The whole atmosphere was one of romance. It was after four now, with that
                        rather restful holiday feeling that comes into the air of a Saturday
                        afternoon when every laborer and rich man is deciding to knock off for the
                        day and "call it a day," as they express it, and you are
                        wondering why there is any need to hurry over anything. The sky was so blue,
                        the sun so warm. If you had been there you would have voted to sit on the
                        grass of one of these lovely slopes and talk things over. I am sure you
                        would.
                    Alas, for some distance now we had been encountering signs indicating that a
                        place called Hornell was near and not on our route. It was off to the left
                        or south and we were headed north, Canaseraga-ward. If our car turned north
                        at the critical juncture of the dividing roads, would they miss us if we did
                        not follow them  and turn back, or was it not
                        our duty to get the lead and show them which way we were going, or failing
                        that, follow them into Hornell for a bit of food or something? I began to
                        puzzle.
                    "How about Hornell, for dinner?" I suggested mildly.
                    "I see that these signs indicate a place of about ten
                        thousand."
                    "What's got into you?" exclaimed my host.
                        "Didn't you just eat eight bananas?"
                    "Oh, I know; but bananas, in this air—"
                    "But it isn't any more than four thirty. It would only be
                        five by the time we got there. I thought you wanted to see the falls yet
                        tonight—and Warsaw?"
                    "I did—only—you know how beautiful falls are likely to be in the
                        morning—"
                    "Oh, of course, I see—only—but, seriously, do you think we'd
                        better? It might turn out all right, but again, there are three of them, and
                        two of them are not very good looking and we're only two
                        actually."
                    "Right! Right!" I sighed. "Well, if it must
                        be—"
                    I sank heavily against the cushion.
                    And then they did let us pass them, not far from the fatal juncture. Just as
                        we neared it they decided to pass us and turned off toward Hornell.
                    "Oh, heaven! heaven! Oh, woe! woe!" I sighed.
                    "And she's looking back. How can such things
                        be?"
                    Speed saw the point as quickly as anyone. Our better judgment would naturally
                        have asserted itself anyhow, I presume.
                    "We turn to the right here, don't we?" he called
                        chipperly, as we neared the signpost.
                    "Of course, of course," I called gaily.
                        "Don't we, Franklin?"
                    "Yes, that's the way," he smiled, and off we went,
                        northwest, while they were going southwest.
                    I began to wonder then whether they would have sense enough to turn back and
                        follow us, but they didn't.
                    "And it is such a lovely afternoon," I said to myself.
                        "I'd like to see Hornell."
                    
                    "That was a good little car they had," called back Speed
                        consolingly. "That girl in the pink hat certainly had a fancy for
                        someone here."
                    "Not me," said Franklin. "I know
                        that."
                    "Not me," I replied. "She never looked at
                        me."
                    "Well, I know damn well she never looked at me." added
                        Speed. "She must have liked the car."
                    We both laughed.
                    I wonder what sort of place Hornell is, anyhow?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    THE REV. J. CADDEN MCMICKENS
                    THE last twelve miles of the run into Portageville had
                        seemed if anything the most perfect of all. Before we reached Canaseraga we
                        traversed a number of miles of dirt road—"one of the finest dirt
                        roads anywhere," a local enthusiast described it,—and it was
                        excellent, very much above the average. After Canaseraga it continued for
                        twelve miles, right into Portageville and the Falls, and even on to Warsaw
                        and East Aurora, some forty miles farther, as we found out later. Following
                        it we skirted a hillside with a fine valley below it, and few, if any,
                        houses to evidence the thriving farm life which the fields seemed to
                        suggest. Evening gnats were whirling everywhere. Breaths of cool air were
                        beginning to emanate from the grove of woods which we occasionally passed.
                        The long rays of the sun slanted so heavily that they came under my visor
                        and found my eyes. A fine vigorous type of farm boy swinging along with an
                        axe over his shoulder, and beads of perspiration on his brow, informed us
                        that we were on the right road. I envied him his pink cheeks and his lithe
                        body and his clear blue eyes.
                    But the Falls, when we found them, were not quite all that I expected. Three
                        Falls—an upper, a lower and a middle—were all included in a park called
                        "Letch-worth," but it did not seem to me that much parking
                        had been accomplished. A great house near them at the spot where a railroad
                        crosses on a high trestle, deceived us into thinking that we had found a
                        delightful hotel for the night; but no, it was an institution of some kind.
                        Deep down in a valley below the Falls we found Portageville, a small,
                        crossroads place that looked for all the 
                        world like one of those cowboy towns one sees so persistently displayed in
                        the moving pictures. There were two or three frame hotels of drab or green
                        shades, facing a large open square, and a collection of small white frame
                        houses, with a host of rather primitive looking Americans sitting outside
                        the hotels in rocking or arm chairs, the men in their shirt sleeves.
                        Franklin, who is precise in his apparel, was rather irritated, I think. He
                        was not expecting anything quite so crude. We inquired as to rooms and meals
                        and found that we could have both, only the evening meal should be eaten
                        very soon, if we wanted any. The hour for it was from six to seven, with no
                        la carte service.
                    The individual who volunteered this information was a little, short, stout
                        man in belted trousers and shirt sleeves who stood beside the car as it lay
                        alongside the hotel platform, picking his teeth with a toothpick. He was so
                        blandly unconscious of the fact that the process might be a little annoying
                        that he was amusing. I got the feeling that things would not be so
                        comfortable here as they might be, and so I was glad when Franklin suggested
                        that we seek a more perfect view of the Falls, which someone had said was to
                        be obtained from below the Falls. It would take only ten or fifteen minutes,
                        so the proprietor suggested,—straight up the road we were on—so we went on
                        seeking it. We did not return.
                    In the first place, we could not find the view indicated, and in the second
                        place, we encountered a man who wanted to ride and who told such a queer
                        story of being robbed of his bicycle while assisting another man to repair
                        his machine, that we began to suspect he was a little crazy or that he had
                        some scheme in mind of robbing us,—just which we could not determine. But in
                        parleying with him and baffling him by suggesting we were going back into
                        the village instead of the way he thought we were going, we lost so much
                        time that it was night, and we did not think we would get a decent meal if
                        we did return. So we questioned another stranger as to the route to Warsaw,
                             found that it was only twenty miles, and
                        struck out for it.
                    Over a road that was singularly smooth for a dirt one, and through land as
                        flat as Illinois, a tableland on the top of a ridge,—which proved the last we
                        were to see—we raced Warsaw-ward. It was strangely like my school days home,
                        or I romanticised myself into the belief that it was. It was the same size
                        as Warsaw, Indiana, when I left it—thirtyfive hundred—and its principal east
                        and west street, as I discovered the next morning, was named Buffalo, as at
                        home. It differed in one respect greatly, and that was that it had no
                        courthouse square, and no lakes immediately adjoining it; but otherwise its
                        general atmosphere was quite the same. It had a river, or small stream about
                        the size of the Tippecanoe. The similarity is not so startling when one
                        considers how many towns of thirtyfive hundred are county seats in the
                        middle west, and how limited their opportunities for difference are.
                        Assemble four or five hundred frame and brick houses of slightly varying
                        size and architecture and roominess, surround them with trees and pleasing
                        grass plots, provide the town a main street and one cross street of stores,
                        place one or two red brick school houses at varying points in them, add one
                        white sandstone courthouse in a public square, and a railroad station, and
                        four or five or six red brick churches, and there you have them all. Give
                        one town a lake, another a stream, another a mill pond—it makes little
                        difference.
                    And actually, as we dashed along toward Warsaw under a starry sky, with a
                        warm, summery wind blowing, a wind so warm that it felt suspiciously like
                        rain, I allowed myself to sink into the most commemorative state. When you
                        forget the now and go back a number of years and change yourself into a boy
                        and view old scenes and see old faces, what an unbelievably strange and
                        inexplicable thing life becomes! We attempt solutions of this thing, but to
                        me it is the most vacuous of all employments. I rather prefer to take it as
                        a strange, unbelievable, impossible orchestral blending of sounds and scenes
                        and moods  and odors and sensations, which
                        have no real meaning and yet which, tinkling and kaleidoscopic as they are,
                        are important for that reason. I never ride this way at night, or when I am
                        tired by day or night, but that life becomes this uncanny blur of
                        nothingness.
                    Why should something want to produce two billion people all alike,—ears, eyes,
                        noses, hands, unless for mere sensory purposes,—to sensitize fully and
                        voluptuously something that is delicious? Why billions of trees, flowers,
                        insects, animals, all seeking to feel, unless feeling without socalled
                        reason is the point? Why reason, anyway? And to what end? Supposing, for
                        instance, that one could reason through to the socalled solution, actually
                        found it, and then had to live with that bit of exact knowledge and no more
                        forever and ever and ever  Give me, instead, sound and fury,
                        signifying nothing. Give me the song sung by an idiot, dancing down the
                        wind. Give me this gay, sad, mad seeking and never finding about which we
                        are all so feverishly employed. It is so perfect, this inexplicable
                        mystery.
                    And it was with some such thoughts as these that I was employed, sitting back
                        in the car and spinning along over these roads this night. I was only half
                        awake and half in a dreamland of my own creating. The houses that we passed
                        with open doors, lamp on table, people reading, girls playing at pianos,
                        people sitting in doorsteps, were in the world of twentyfive or thirty years
                        before, and I was entering the Warsaw of my school days. There was no real
                        difference. "What ideas have we today that we did not have
                        then?" I was dreamily asking myself. "How do people
                        differ? Are the houses any better, or the clothes? Or the people in their
                        bodies and minds? Or are their emotions any richer or keener or
                        sweeter?" Euripides wrote the Medea in 440 B. C. Shakespeare wrote
                        "Macbeth" in 1605 A. D. "The Song of
                        Songs"—how old is that? Or the Iliad? The general feeling is that we
                        are getting on, but I should like to know what we can get on to, actually.
                        And beyond the delight of sensory response, what is there to get on  to? Mechanicalizing the world does not, cannot, it seems to me, add to the individual's
                        capacity for sensory response. Life has always been vastly varied. How, by
                        inventing things, can we make it more so? As a matter of fact, life, not
                        man, is supplying its own inventions and changes, adding some, discarding
                        others. To what end? Today we have the automobile. Three thousand years ago
                        we had the chariot. Today we fight with forty-centimeter guns and
                        destructive gases. Three thousand years ago we fought with catapults and
                        burning pitch and oil. Man uses all the forces he can conceive, and he seems
                        to be able to conceive of greater and greater forces, but he does not
                        understand them, and his individual share in the race's sensory
                        response to them is apparently no greater than ever. We are capable of
                        feeling so much and no more. Has any writer, for instance, felt more
                        poignantly or more sweetly than those whose moods and woes are now the
                        Iliad? And when Medea speaks, can anyone say it is ancient and therefore
                        less than we can feel today? We know that this is not true.
                    I may seem to grow dim in my researches, but I can conceive of no least
                        suggestion of real change in the sensory capacity of life. As it was in the
                        beginning, so it appears that it is now—and shall I say, ever shall be? I
                        will not venture that. I am not all-wise and I do not know.
                    When we entered Warsaw I had just such thoughts in my mind, and a feeling
                        that I would like very much to have something to eat. Since it was early
                        Saturday evening, the streets were crowded with country vehioles, many
                        automobiles, and a larger percentage of tumble-down buggies and wagons than
                        I had so far seen elsewhere. Why? The oldest, poorest, most ratty and
                        rickety looking auto I had seen in I don't know when was labeled
                        "For Hire."
                    "Gee whiz!" exclaimed Speed when he caught sight of it. And
                        I added, "Who would want to ride in that, anyhow?"
                    
                    Yet, since it was there, it would seem as if somebody might want to do
                        so.
                    However, at the north end of the principal street, and close to a small park,
                        we discovered one of the most comfortable little hotels imaginable. All the
                        rooms were done in bright, cheerful colors, and seemed to be properly cared
                        for. There were baths and an abundance of hot water and towels, and electric
                        lights and electric call bells,—rather novel features for a country hotel of
                        this size. The lobby was as smart and brisk as most hotels of a much more
                        expensive character. We "spruced up" considerably at the
                        sight of it. Franklin proceeded with his toilet in a most ambitious manner,
                        whereupon I changed to a better suit. I felt quite as though I were dressing
                        for an adventure of some kind, though I did not think there was the
                        slightest likelihood of our finding one in a town of this size, nor was I
                        eager for the prospect. A half dozen years before—perhaps earlier—I would have
                        been most anxious to get into conversation with some girl and play the
                        gallant as best I could, or roam the dark in search of adventure, but
                        tonight I was interested in no such thing, even if I might have.
                    Surely I must be getting along in years, I said to my self, to be thus
                        indifferent to these early enthusiasms. Twenty years before, if anyone had
                        told me that I could go forth into a brisk Saturday evening crowd such as
                        was filling this one street, and, seeing the young girls and boys and women
                        and men going about, feel no least thrill of possible encounters, I would
                        have said that life, under such circumstances, would not be worth living.
                        Yet here I was, and here we were, and this was exactly what I was doing and
                        life seemed fairly attractive.
                    Out in the buzzing country street we did nothing but stroll about, buy
                        picture postcards, write on and address them, buy some camera films, get our
                        shoes shined, and finally go for our dinner to a commonplace country
                        restaurant. I was interested in the zealous, cadaverous, overambitious young
                        man who was the proprietor, and a young, plump blonde girl acting as
                        waitress, who might  have been his wife or
                        only a hired girl. Her eyes looked swollen and as though she had been crying
                        recently. And he was in a crotchety, non-palliative mood, taking our orders
                        in a superior, contemptuous manner, and making us feel as though we were of
                        small import.
                    "What ails mine host, do you suppose?" I asked of
                        Franklin.
                    "Oh, he thinks that we think we're something, I suppose,
                        and he's going to prove to us that we're not. You know how
                        country people are."
                    I watched him thereafter, and I actually think Franklin's
                        interpretation was correct.
                    As we ambled about afterwards, Speed told us the harrowing story of the
                        descent of the Rev. J. Cadden Mc-Mickens on the fair city of Kokomo,
                        Indiana, some few years before, when he was working there as a test man for
                        one of the great automobile companies. After a reasonable period of
                        religious excitement and exhortation, in which the Rev. J. Cadden conducted
                        a series of meetings in a public hall hired for the occasion and urged
                        people to reform and repent of their sins, he suddenly announced that on a
                        given day the end of the world would certainly take place and that all those
                        not reformed or "saved" by that date would be damned. On
                        the night before the fatal morning on which the earth was to be consumed by
                        fire or water, or both, Speed suddenly awoke to the fact that he was not
                        "saved" and that he could not get a train out of Kokomo to
                        Carmel, Indiana, where his mother lived. To him at that time the world was
                        surely coming to an end. Fire, brimstone, water, smoke, were already in the
                        air. As he related this story to us I got the impression that his knees
                        knocked under him. In consequence of the thought of never being able to see
                        his dear mother any more, or his sister or brothers, he nearly succumbed of
                        heart failure. Afterwards, finding that the earth was not destroyed and that
                        he was as safe and sound as ever, he was seized by a great rage against the
                        aforesaid Rev. J. Cadden McMickens, and went to seek him out in order that
                        he might give him "a damned  good
                        licking," as he expressed it, but the Rev. J. Cadden, having seen
                        his immense prophecy come to nothing, had already fled.
                    "But, Speed," I protested, "how comes it that you,
                        a sensible young fellow, capable of being a test man for a great automobile
                        factory like that of the H— Company, could be taken in by such fol de rol?
                        Didn't you know that the earth was not likely to be consumed all of
                        a sudden by fire or water? Didn't you ever study geology or
                        astronomy or anything like that?"
                    "No, I never," he replied, with the only true and perfect
                        Hoosier response to such a query. "I never had a chance to go to
                        school much. I had to go to work when I was twelve."
                    "Yes, I know, Speed," I replied sympathetically,
                        "but you read the newspapers right along, don't you? They
                        rather show that such things are not likely to happen— in a general way they
                        do."
                    "Yes, I know," he replied, "but I was just a kid
                        then. That doggone skunk! I'd just like to have a picture of him, I
                        would, frightening me like that."
                    "But, Speed," I said, "surely you didn't
                        believe that the earth was going to be swallowed by fire that next morning
                        after you were so frightened?"
                    "Yes, I did, too," he replied. "He was just
                        agettin' out papers and handbills with great big type, and
                        hollerin' there on the corner. It was enough to scare anybody. Why
                        wouldn't I? Just the same, I wasn't the only one. There
                        were hundreds—mostly everybody in Kokomo. I went over to see an old lady I
                        knew, and she said she didn't know if it would happen or not—she
                        wasn't sure."
                    "You poor kid," I mumbled.
                    "Well, what did you do, Speed, when you found you couldn't
                        get out of town?" inquired Franklin. "Why didn't
                        you walk out?"
                    "Yes, walk out," replied Speed resentfully. "I
                        have a picture of myself walking out, and Carmel forty miles  away or more. I wanted to be with my mother
                        when the earth burned up."
                    "And you couldn't make it by morning," I
                        commented.
                    "No, I couldn't," he replied.
                    "Well, then, what did you do?" persisted Franklin.
                    "Well, I went to see this old lady where I boarded once, and I just
                        stayed with her. We sat and waited together."
                    At this point I was troubled between a desire to laugh and to weep. This poor
                        youth! And the wild-eyed J. Cadden McMickens! And Kokomo! And the hundreds
                        who believed! Can't you see Speed and the old lady—the young boy and
                        the woman who didn't know and couldn't be sure, and
                        Kokomo, and the Rev. J. Cadden McMic—
                    I feel as if I would like to get hold of the Rev. J. Cadden even at this late
                        date and shake him up a bit. I won't say kick him, but—
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE CAPITAL OF THE FRA
                    NEXT morning it was raining, and to pass the time before
                        breakfast I examined a large packet of photographs which Speed had left with
                        me the night before—mementoes of that celebrated pioneer venture which had
                        for its object the laying out of the new Lincoln Highway from New York to
                        San Francisco. We had already en route heard so much of this trip that by
                        now we were fairly familiar with it. It had been organized by a very wealthy
                        manufacturer, and he and his very good looking young wife had been inclined
                        to make a friend of Speed, so that he saw much that would not ordinarily
                        have fallen under his vision. I was never tired of hearing of this
                        particular female, whom I would like to have met. Speed described her as
                        small, plump, rosy and very determined,—an iron-willed, spiteful, jealous
                        little creature—in other words, a real woman, who had inherited more money
                        than her husband had ever made. Whenever anything displeased her greatly she
                        would sit in the car and weep, or even yell. She refused to stay at any
                        hotel which did not just suit her and had once in a Chicago hotel diningroom
                        slapped the face of her spouse because he dared to contradict her, and
                        another time in some famous Kansas City hostelry she had thrown the bread at
                        him. Both were always anxious to meet only the best people, only Mr.
                        Manufacturer would insist upon including prizefighters and auto-speed record
                        men, greatly to her displeasure.
                    I wish you might have seen these pictures selected by Speed to illustrate his
                        trip. Crossing a great country like America, from coast to coast, visiting
                        new towns each day and going by a route hitherto not much followed,  one might gather much interesting information
                        and many pictures (if no more than postcards) of beautiful and striking
                        things.
                    Do you imagine there were any in this collection which Speed left with me?
                        Not one! The views, if you will believe me, were all of mired cars and rutty
                        roads and great valleys which might have been attractive or impressive if
                        they had been properly photographed. The car was always in the foreground,
                        spoiling everything. He had selected dull scenes of cars in procession—the
                        same cars always in the same procession, only in different order, and never
                        before any radically different scene.
                    As a matter of fact, as I looked at these photographs I could tell exactly
                        how Speed's mind worked, and it was about the way the average mind
                        would work under such circumstances. Here was a great automobile tour,
                        including say forty or fifty cars or more. The cars contained important men
                        and women, or were supposed to, because the owners had money. Ergo, the cars
                        and their occupants were the great things about this trip, and wherever the
                        cars were, there was the interest—never elsewhere. Hence, whenever the cars
                        rolled into a town or along a great valley or near a great mountain, let the
                        town be never so interesting, or the mountain, or the valley, the great
                        thing to photograph was the cars in the procession. It never seemed to occur
                        to the various photographers to do anything different. Cars, cars, cars,
                        —here they were, and always in a row and always the same. I finally put the
                        whole bunch aside wearily and gave them back to him, letting him think that
                        they were very, very remarkable—which they were.
                    Setting off after breakfast we encountered not the striking mountain effects
                        of the region about Delaware Water Gap and Stroudsburg, nor yet the fine
                        valley views along the Susquehanna, but a spent hill country—the last
                        receding heaves and waves of all that mountainous country east of us. As we
                        climbed up and up out of Warsaw onto a ridge which seemed to command all the
                        country about for miles, I thought of the words of that motorcyclist  at Owego who said he had come through Warsaw
                        and that you climbed five hills to get in, but only one to get out, going
                        east. It was true. In our westward course the hills we were to climb were
                        before us. You could see two or three of them—the road ascending straight
                        like a ribbon, ending suddenly at the top of each one and jumping as a thin
                        whitish line to the next hill crest beyond.
                    The rain in which we began our day was already ceasing, so that only a few
                        miles out we could put down the top. Presently the sun began to break
                        through fleecy, whitish clouds, giving the whole world an opalescent tinge,
                        and then later, as we neared East Aurora, it became as brilliant as any sun
                        lover could wish.
                    A Sabbath stillness was in the air. One could actually feel the early morning
                        preparations for church. As we passed various farmyards, the crowing of
                        roosters and the barking of dogs seemed especially loud. Seeing a hen cross
                        the road and only escape being struck by the car by a hair's
                        breath, Franklin announced that he had solved the mystery of why hens
                        invariably cross the road, or seem to, in front of any swift moving
                        vehicle.
                    "You don't mean to tell me that it's because they
                        want to get to the other side, do you?" I inquired, thereby
                        frustrating the possibility of the regulation Joe Miller.
                    "Actually, yes, but I'm not trying to put that old one over
                        on you. It's because they always have the instinct, when any
                        dangerous object approaches, to run toward their home—their coop, which is
                        often just opposite where they are eating. Now you watch these chickens from
                        now on. They'll be picking peacefully on the side of the road
                        opposite the farmyard. Our car will come along, and instead of moving a few
                        feet farther away from their home, and so escaping altogether, they will
                        wait until the car is near and then suddenly decide to run for home—the
                        longest way out of danger. Lots of times they'll start, as this
                        last one did, and then find, when they're nearly half way over,
                        that they can't  make it. Then they
                        start to run ahead of the car and of course nearly always they're
                        overtaken and killed."
                    "Well, that's an ingenious explanation, anyhow," I
                        said.
                    "They lose their heads and then they lose their heads," he
                        added.
                    "Franklin!" I exclaimed reproachfully and then turning to
                        Speed added: "Don't let that make you nervous, Speed. Be
                        calm. We must get him to East Aurora, even though he will do these trying
                        things. Show that you are above such difficulties, Speed. Never let a mere
                        attempt at humor, a beggarly jest, cause you to lose control of the
                        car."
                    Speed never even smiled.
                    Just here we stopped for gas and oil. We were unexpectedly entertained by a
                        store clerk who seemed particularly anxious to air his beliefs and his art
                        knowedge. He was an interesting young man, very, with keen blue eyes, light
                        hair, a sharp nose and chin—and decidedly intelligent and shrewd.
                    "How far is it to East Aurora from here?" inquired
                        Franklin.
                    "Oh, about fifteen miles," answered the youth.
                        "You're not from around here, eh?"
                    "No," said Franklin, without volunteering anything
                        further.
                    "Not bound for Elbert Hubbard's place, are
                        you?"
                    "We thought we'd take dinner there," replied
                        Franklin.
                    "I ask because usually a number of people go through here of a
                        Sunday looking for his place, particularly now that he's dead.
                        He's got quite an institution over there, I understand—or did have.
                        They say his hotel is very good."
                    "Haven't you ever been there?" I inquired,
                        interested.
                    "No, but I've heard a good deal about it. It's a
                        sort of new art place, as I understand it, heavy furniture and big beams and
                        copper and brass things. He had quite a trade, too. He got into a bad way
                        with some people  over there on account of his
                        divorcing his first wife and taking up with this second woman for awhile
                        without being married to her. He was a pretty shrewd business man, I guess,
                        even if he wore his hair long. I saw him once. He lectured around here—and
                        everywhere else, I suppose. I think he was a little too radical for most
                        people out this way."
                    He looked as though he had vindicated his right to a seat among the
                        intellectuals.
                    I stared at him curiously. America is so brisk and well informed. Here was a
                        small, out of the way place, with no railroad and only two or three stores,
                        but this youth was plainly well informed on all the current topics. The few
                        other youths and maids whom we saw here seemed equally brisk. I was
                        surprised to note the Broadway styles in suits and dresses—those little
                        nuances of the ready made clothes manufacturers which make one feel as if
                        there were no longer any country nor any city, but just smart, almost
                        impudent life, everywhere. It was quite diverting.
                    Looking at this fine country, dotted with red barns and silos and ripe with
                        grain, in which already the reapers were standing in various places ready
                        for the morrow's work, I could see how the mountains of the east
                        were puffing out. This was a spent mountain country. All the real vigor of
                        the hills was farther east. These were too rolling—too easy of ascent and
                        descent—long and trying and difficult as some of them were. It seemed as if
                        we just climbed and climbed and climbed only to descend, descend, descend,
                        and then climb, climb, climb again. Speed put on the chains,—his favorite
                        employment in hilly regions.
                    But presently, after a few more hills, which finally gave way to a level
                        country, we entered East Aurora.
                    It is curious how any fame, even meretricious or vulgar, is likely to put one
                        on the qui vive. I had never been greatly impressed with
                        the intellect or the taste of Elbert Hubbard. He seemed too much the quack
                        savior and patent nostrum vender strayed into the realm of art.
                    
                    His face as photographed suggested the strolling Thespian of country
                        "opera house" fame. I could never look upon his pictures
                        without involuntarily smiling.
                    Just the same, once here, I was anxious to see what he had achieved. Many
                        people have I known who, after visiting East Aurora and the Roycroft (that
                        name!) Shops, had commended its sacred precincts to my attention. I have
                        known poets who lived there and writers to whom he allotted cottages within
                        the classic precincts of his farm because of their transcendent merits in
                        literature. Sic transit gloria mundi! I cannot even recall
                        their names!
                    But here we were, rolling up the tree shaded streets of a handsome and
                        obviously prosperous town of about twentyfive hundred which is now one of
                        the residential suburbs of Buffalo. Our eyes were alert for any evidence of
                        the whereabouts of the Roycroft Inn. Finally in the extreme western end of
                        the city we found a Roycroft "sign" in front of a campus
                        like yard containing a building which looked like a small college
                        "addition" of some kind—one of those small halls specially
                        devoted to chemistry or physics or literature. The whole place had the
                        semi-academic socio-religious atmosphere which is associated by many with
                        aspiration and intellectual supremacy and sweetness and light. Here on the
                        sidewalk we encountered a youth who seemed to typify the happy acolyte or
                        fanner of the sacred flame. His hair was a little long, his face and skin
                        pale, quite waxen, and he wore a loose shirt with a blowy tie, his sleeves
                        being rolled up and his negligee trousers belted at the waist. He had an
                        open and amiable countenance and looked as though life had fortunately, but
                        with rare discrimination, revealed much to him
                    "What is this?" I inquired, waving my hand at the nearest
                        building.
                    "Oh, one of the shops," he replied pleasantly.
                    "Is it open?
                    "Not on Sunday—not to the general public, no."
                    He looked as though he thought we might gain special  permission possibly, if we sought it. But instead we inquired
                        the location of the Inn and he accompanied us thither on the running board
                        of our machine. It turned out to be a low, almost rectangular affair done in
                        pea green, with a fine line of veranda displaying swings, rockers, wicker
                        chairs and deep benches where a number of passing visitors were already
                        seated. It was a brisk, summery and rather conventional hotel scene.
                    Within, just off the large lobby was a great music or reception hall,
                        finished as I had anticipated in the Albertian vein of taste—a cross between
                        a farm home and the Petit Trianon. The furniture was of a solid, logcabin
                        foundation but hopelessly bastardized with oil, glaze, varnish and little
                        metal gimcracks in imitation of wooden pegs. A parqueted floor as slippery
                        as glass, great timbers to support the ceiling which was as meticulously
                        finished as a lorgnette, and a six-panel frieze of Athens, Rome, Paris,
                        London and New York—done in a semi-impressionistic vein, and without real
                        distinction, somehow—completed the effect. There were a choice array of those
                        peculiar bindings for which the Roycroft shop is noted—limp leather, silk
                        linings and wrought-bronze corners and clasps, and a number of odd lamps,
                        bookracks, candelabra and the like, which were far from suggesting that rude
                        durability which is the fine art of poverty. One cannot take a leaf out of
                        St. Francis of Assisi, another out of the Grand Louis and a third out of
                        Davy Crockett and combine them into a new art. The thing was bizarre,
                        overloaded, souffl, a kind of tawdry botch. Through it all were tramping
                        various American citizens of that hybrid, commercial-intellectual variety
                        which always irritates me to the swearing stage. In the lobby, the library,
                        and various halls was more of the same gimcrackery—Andrew Jackson attempting
                        to masquerade as Lord Chesterfield, and not succeeding, of course. Franklin,
                        a very tolerant and considerate person when it comes to human
                        idiosyncrasies, was at first inclined to bestow a few mild words of praise.
                        "After all, it did  help some people,
                        you know. It was an advance in its way." After a time, though, I
                        noticed that his interest began to flag. We were scheduled to stay for
                        dinner, which was still three quarters of an hour away, and had registered
                        ourselves to that effect at the desk. In the meantime the place was filling
                        up with new arrivals who suggested that last word of social investiture
                        which the ownership of a factory may somehow imply. They would not qualify
                        exactly as "high-brow," but they did make an ordinary
                        working artist seem a little de trop. As I watched them I
                        kept thinking that here at last I had a very clear illustration in the flesh
                        of a type that has always been excessively offensive to me. It is the type
                        which everywhere having attained money by processes which at times are too
                        contemptible or too dull to mention, are, by reason of the same astonishing
                        dullness of mind or impulse, attempting to do the thing which they think
                        they ought to do. Think of how many you personally know. They have some hazy
                        idea of a social standard to which they are trying to attain or "up
                        to" which they are trying to live. Visit for example those ghastly
                        gaucheries, the Hotels Astor or Knickerbocker in New York or those
                        profitable Bohemian places in Greenwich village (how speedily any decent
                        rendezvous is spoiled once the rumor of it gets abroad!) or any other
                        presumably smart or different place and you will see for yourself. A hotel
                        like the Astor or the Knickerbocker may be trying to be conventionally smart
                        as the mob understands that sort of thing, the Bohemian places just the
                        reverse. In either place or case these visitors will be found trying to live
                        up to something which they do not understand and do not really approve of
                        but which, nevertheless, they feel that they must do.
                    In this East Aurora restaurant the dinner hour was one o'clock. That
                        is the worst of these places outside the very large cities. They have a
                        fixed time and a fixed way for nearly everything. I never could understand
                        here or anywhere else why a crowd should be made to  wait and eat all at once. Where does that silly old mass rule
                        come from anyhow? Why not let them enter and serve them as they come? The
                        material is there as a rule to serve and waiting. But, no. They have a fixed
                        dinner hour and neither love nor money will induce them to change it or open
                        the doors one moment before the hour strikes. Then there is a rush, a
                        pell-mell struggle! Think of the dullness, the reducing shame of it, really.
                        The mere thought of it sickened me. I tried to talk to Franklin about it.
                        He, too, was irritated by it. He said something about the average person
                        loving a little authority and rejoicing in rules and following a custom and
                        being unable to get an old idea or old ideas out their heads. It was
                        abominable.
                    There was the female here with the golden-rimmed eye-glasses and the stern,
                        accusing eye behind it. "Are you or are you not of the best,
                        artistically and socially? Answer yes or avaunt." There were tall,
                        uncomfortable looking gentlemen in cutaway coats, and the stiffest of stiff
                        collars, led at chains' ends by stout, executive wives who glared
                        and stared and pawed things over. The chains were not visible to the naked
                        eye, but they were there. Then there were nervous, fussy, somewhat
                        undersized gentlemen with white side whiskers and an air of delicate and
                        uncertain inquiry, going timidly to and fro. There were old and young maids
                        of a severe literary and artistic turn. I never saw better materials nor
                        poorer taste than in their clothes. I remarked to Franklin that there was
                        not one easy, natural, beautiful woman in the whole group, and after
                        scrutinizing them all he agreed with me.
                    "Now, Franklin," I said, "this shows you what the
                        best circles of art and literature should really be like. Once
                        you're truly successful and have established a colony of your
                        own—East Franklinia, let us say, or Booth-a-rootha—they will come and visit
                        you in this fashion."
                    "Not if I know it, they won't," he replied.
                    The crowd increased. Those who in some institutions might be known as waiters
                        and waitresses, but who here  were art
                        directors and directoresses at the very least, were bustling to and fro,
                        armed with all authority and not at all overawed by the standing throng
                        which had now gathered outside the diningroom door. I never saw a more
                        glistening array of fancy glass, plates, cups, knives, forks, spoons,
                        flowers. The small black mission tables—Elbert Hubbardized, of course—were
                        stuffed with this sort of thing to the breaking point. The room fairly
                        sparkled as though the landlord had said, "I'll give these
                        people their money's worth if it takes all the plate in the place.
                        They love show and must have it." I began to feel a little sick and
                        nervous. It was all so grand, and the people about us so plainly avid for
                        it, that I said, "Oh, God, just for a simple, plain board, with an
                        humble yellow plate in the middle. What should I be doing here,
                        anyhow?"
                    "Well, Franklin," I said, as gaily as I could,
                        "this is going to be a very sumptuous affair—a very, very sumptuous
                        affair."
                    He looked at me wisely, at the crowd, at the long curio case diningroom, and
                        hesitated, but something seemed to be stirring within him.
                    "What do you say to leaving?" he finally observed.
                        "It seems to me"—then he stopped. His essential good nature
                        and charity would not permit him to criticize. I heaved a sigh of relief,
                        hungry as I was.
                    We hustled out. I was so happy I forgot all about dinner. There was dear old
                        Speed, as human as anything, sitting comfortably in the front seat, no coat
                        on, his feet amid the machinery for starting things, a cigarette in his
                        mouth, the comic supplement of some Sunday paper spread out before him, as
                        complacent and serene as anyone could be.
                    He swung the car around in a trice, and was off. Before us lay a long street,
                        overhung with branches through which the sunlight was falling in lovely
                        mottled effects. Overhead was the blue sky. Outward, to right and left, were
                        open fields—the great, enduring, open fields.
                    "It was a bit too much, wasn't it?" said
                        Franklin.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    BUFFALO OLD AND NEW
                    WE had traveled now between six and seven hundred miles,
                        and but for a short half mile between Nicholsen and New Milford,
                        Pennsylvania, we could scarcely say that we had seen any bad roads—seriously
                        impeding ones. To be sure, we had sought only the best ones in most cases,
                        not always, and there were those patches of state road, cut up by heavy
                        hauling, which we had to skirt; but all things considered, the roads so far
                        had been wonderful. From East Aurora into Buffalo there was a solid, smooth,
                        red brick boulevard, thirty feet wide and twelve miles long, over which we
                        raced as though it were a bowling alley. The bricks were all vitrified and
                        entirely new. I know nothing about the durability of such a road, and this
                        one gave no evidence of its wearing qualities, but if many such roads are to
                        be built, and they stand the wear, America will have a road system
                        unrivaled.
                    As we were spinning along, the factories and high buildings and chimneys of
                        Buffalo, coming into view across a flat space of land, somehow reminded me
                        of those older hill cities of Europe which one sees across a space of land
                        from a train, but which are dead, dead. "Here is life," I
                        said to myself, "only here nothing has happened as yet,
                        historically; whereas there, men have fought to and fro over every inch of
                        the ground." How would it be if one could say of Buffalo that in
                        2316 A. D.—four hundred years after the writing of this—there was a great
                        labor leader who having endured many injuries was tired of the exactions of
                        the money barons and securing a large following of the working people seized
                        the city and administered it cooperatively, until he had  been routed by some capitalistic force and
                        hanged from the highest building, his followers also being put to death? Or
                        suppose a great rebellion had originated in New Mexico, and it had reached
                        Buffalo and Pittsburg in its onsweep, and that here an enormous battle had
                        been fought—an Austerlitz or a Waterloo? How we should stare at the towers as
                        we came across this plain! How great names would rise up and flash across
                        the sky! We would hear old war songs in our ears and dream old war dreams.
                        Or suppose there were a great cathedral or a great museum crowded with the
                        almost forgotten art of the twentieth, twentyfirst and twentysecond
                        centuries!
                    I dream. Yet such are the things which somehow make a great city. But lacking
                        in historic charm as Buffalo might be, the city had a peculiar interest for
                        me, a very special one indeed, egoist that I am. For here, one springtime,
                        twenty years before this, I entered Buffalo looking for work. Fear not, I am
                        not going to begin a romantic and sentimental account of my youth and early
                        struggles. It was still late March and very chilly. There was snow on the
                        ground, but a touch of Spring in the air. I had come on from Cleveland,
                        where I had failed to find anything to do, and was destined to go on to
                        Pittsburg from here, for I could not make a permanent connection with any
                        Buffalo paper. I was a lonely, lank, impossible newspaper type as I see
                        myself now, and so sentimental and wistful that I must have seemed a fool to
                        practical men. They never troubled to pay me a decent salary, I know that.
                        But instead of looking briskly and earnestly for work, as you might think a
                        boy with only a few dollars in his pocket and no friends anywhere within
                        hundreds of miles would do, I spent my time mooning over what seemed then
                        great streets and over the harbor waters near at hand, with their great
                        grain elevators and ships and coal pockets. Ah, those small rivers with
                        their boats and tugs and their romantic suggestion of the sea,—how I yearned
                        over them!
                    At that time I traveled by trolley to Niagara, nearly forty miles away, and
                        looked at that tumbling flood,  which was then
                        not chained or drained by turbine water power sluices. I was impressed, but
                        somehow not quite so much as I thought I would be. Standing out on a rock
                        near the greatest volume of water, under a grey sky, I got dizzy and felt as though I were being carried along, whether I
                        wanted to or not. Farther up stream I stared at the water as it gathered
                        force and speed, and wondered how I should feel if I were in a small canoe
                        and were fighting it for my life. Below the falls I gazed up at the splendid
                        spray and wanted to shout, so vigorously did the water fall and smash the
                        rocks below. When I returned to Buffalo and my room, I congratulated myself
                        that if I had got nothing else, so far, out of Buffalo, at least I had
                        gained this.
                    Beyond having traveled from Warsaw to Chicago and thence to St. Louis and
                        from St. Louis to this same city, via Toledo, and Cleveland, I had never
                        really been anywhere, and life was all wonderful. No songs of Shelley, nor
                        those strange wild lines of Euripides could outsing my mood at this time. I
                        dreamed and dreamed here in this crude manufacturing town, roaming about
                        these chilly streets, and now as I look back upon it, knowing that never
                        again can I feel as I then felt, I seem to know that actually it was as
                        wonderful as I had thought it was.
                    The spirit of America at that time was so remarkable. It was just entering on
                        that vast, splendid, most lawless and most savage period in which the great
                        financiers, now nearly all dead, were plotting and conniving the enslavement
                        of the people and belaboring each other for power. Those crude and parvenu
                        dynasties which now sit enthroned in our democracy, threatening its very
                        life with their pretensions and assumptions, were just in the beginning.
                        John D. Rockefeller was still in Cleveland. Flagler, William Rockefeller, H.
                        H. Rogers, were still comparatively young and secret agents. Carnegie was
                        still in Pittsburg—an iron master—and of all his brood of powerful children
                        only Frick had appeared. William H. Vanderbilt and Jay Gould had only
                        recently died.  Cleveland was president and
                        Mark Hanna was an unknown business man in Clevelan. The great struggles of
                        the railroads, the coal companies, the gas companies, the oil companies,
                        were still in abeyance, or just beginning. The multimillionaire had arrived,
                        it is true, but not the billionaire. Giants were plotting, fighting,
                        dreaming on every hand, and in this city, as in every other American city I
                        then visited, there was a singing, illusioned spirit. Actually, the average
                        American then believed that the possession of money would certainly solve
                        all his earthly ills. You could see it in the faces of the people, in their
                        step and manner. Power, power, power,—everyone was seeking power in the land
                        of the free and the home of the brave. There was almost an angry
                        dissatisfaction with inefficiency, or slowness, or age, or anything which
                        did not tend directly to the accumulation of riches. The American world of
                        that day wanted you to eat, sleep and dream money and power.
                    And I, to whom my future was still a mystery (would that it were so still!),
                        was dreaming of love and power, too, but with no theory of realizing them
                        and with no understanding, indeed, of any way in which I could achieve the
                        happiness and pleasures which I desired. Knowing this, I was unhappy. All
                        day, after a fifteen cent breakfast in some cheap restaurant, or some
                        twenty-five cent dinner in another, I would wander about, staring at these
                        streets and their crowds, the high buildings, the great hotels, uncertain
                        whether to go on to Pittsburg or to hang on here a little while longer in
                        the hope of getting a suitable position as a reporter. Ah, I thought, if I
                        could just be a great newspaper man, like McCullagh of St. Louis, or Dana of
                        New York! In my pocket was a letter from the proprietor of the St. Louis Republic, telling all and sundry what a remarkable youth
                        he had found me to be, but somehow I never felt courageous enough to present
                        it. It seemed so vainglorious! Instead, I hung over the rails of bridges and
                        the walls of water fronts, watching the gulls, or stopped before the windows
                        of shops and stores, and outside  great
                        factories, and stared. At night I would return to my gloomy room and sit and
                        read, or having eaten somewhere, walk the streets. I haunted the newspaper
                        offices at the proper hours, but finding nothing, finally departed. Buffalo
                        seemed a great but hard and cold city. Spinning into it this day, over long
                        viaducts and through regions of seemingly endless factories and cars, it
                        still seemed quite as vigorous, only not so hard, because my circumstances
                        were different. Alas, I said to myself, I am no longer young, no longer
                        really poor in the sense of being uncertain and inefficient, no longer so
                        dreamy or moony over a future the details of which I may not know. Then all
                        was uncertain, gay with hope or dark with fear. It might bring me anything
                        or nothing. But now, now—what can it bring as wonderful as what I thought it
                        might bring? What youth, I said to myself, is now walking about lonely,
                        wistful, dreaming great dreams, and wishing, wishing, wishing? I would be
                        that one if I could. Yes, I would go back for the dreams' sake,—the
                        illusion of life. I would take hold of life as it was, and sigh and yearn
                        and dream.
                    Or would I go back if I could?
                    We did not stay so long in Buffalo this day, but longer than we would have if
                        we could have discovered at once that Canada had placed a heavy license tax
                        on all cars entering Canada, and that, because of the European War, I
                        presume, we would have to submit to a more thorough and tedious examination
                        of our luggage than ordinarily. The war! The war! They were chasing
                        German-American professors out of Canadian colleges, and making other
                        demonstrations of hostility towards all others having pro-German leanings.
                        I, with my German ancestry on one side and my German name and my German
                        sympathies—what might they not have done to me! We didn't go. In
                        spite of our plans to cross into Canada here and come out at Detroit at the
                        west end of Lake Erie, we listened to words of wisdom and refrained. The
                        automobile expert of the Statler assured us that  we would have a great deal of trouble. There would be an extra
                        tax, delays, explanations, and examination of our luggage. A very handsome
                        cigar clerk in this same hotel—what an expensive youth he was, in a very high
                        collar, a braided suit, and most roseate necktie!—told us with an air of
                        condescension that made me feel like a mere beginner in this automobiling
                        world: "It's nothing to do now. What car have
                        you?"
                    We told him.
                    "Ah, no, you need a big racer like the—(naming a car which neither
                        Franklin nor I had ever heard of). Then you can make it in a day.
                        There's nothing to see. You don't wanta
                        stop."
                    He patronized us so thoroughly from the vantage point of his youth (say
                        eighteen years), and his knowledge of all the makes of machines and the
                        roads about Buffalo, that I began to feel that perhaps as a boy I had not
                        lived at all. Such shoes, such a tie, such rings and pins! Everything about
                        him seemed to speak of girls and barbers and florists and garages and
                        tailors. The Buffalo white light district rose up before me, and all the
                        giddy-gaudy whirl of local rathskellers and the like.
                    "What a rowdy-dow boy it is, to be sure," I observed to
                        Franklin.
                    "Yes, there you have it," he replied. "Youth and
                        inexperience triumphing over any possible weight of knowledge.
                        What's the Encyclopedia Britannica compared to that?"
                    Our lunch at one of the big (I use the word advisedly) restaurants, was
                        another experience in the same way. Speed had gone off somewhere with the
                        car to some smaller place and Franklin and I ambled into the large place. It
                        was as bad as the Roycroft Inn from the point of view of pretentiousness and
                        assumed perfection, but from another it was even worse. When we try to be
                        luxurious in America, how luxurious we can really be! The heaviness of our
                        panelings and decorations! the thickness of our carpets! the air of solidity
                        and vigor and  cost without very much taste!
                        It is Teutonic without that bizarre individuality which so often accompanies
                        Teutonic architecture and decoration. We are so fine, and yet we are not—a
                        sort of raw uncouthness showing like shabby woodwork from behind curtains of
                        velvet and cloth of gold.
                    Sometimes, you know, I remember that we are a mongrel race and think we may
                        never achieve anything of great import, so great is my dissatisfaction with
                        the shows and vulgar gaucheries to be seen on all sides. At other times,
                        viewing the upstanding middle class American with his vivid suit, yellow
                        shoes, flaring tie and conspicuous money roll, I want to compose an ode in
                        praise of the final enfranchisement of the common soul. How much better
                        these millions, I ask you, with their derby and fedora hats, their ready
                        made suits, their flaring jewelry, automobiles and a general sense of well
                        being, and even perfection, if you will, than a race of slaves or serfs,
                        dominated by grand dukes, barons, beperfumed and beribboned counts, daimios
                        and lords and ladies, however cultivated and artistic these may appear!
                        True, the latter would eat more gracefully, but would they be any the more
                        desirable for that, actually? I hear a thousand patrician minded souls
                        exclaiming, "Yes, of course," and I hear a million lovers
                        of democracy insisting "No." Personally, I would take a
                        few giants in every field, well curbed, and then a great and comfortable
                        mass such as I see about me in these restaurants, for instance, well curbed
                        also. Then I would let them mix and mingle.
                    But, oh, these restaurants!
                    And how long will it be before we will have just a few good ones in our
                        cities?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    ALONG THE ERIE SHORE
                    IF anyone doubts that this is fast becoming one of the
                        most interesting lands in the world, let him, motor from Buffalo to Detroit
                        along the shore of Lake Erie, mile after mile, over a solid, vitrified brick
                        road fifteen feet wide at the least, and approximately three hundred miles
                        long. As a matter of fact, the vitrified brick road of this description
                        appears to be seizing the imagination of the middle west, and the onslaught
                        of the motor and its owner is making every town and hamlet desirous of
                        sharing the wonders of a new life. Truly, I have never seen a finer road
                        than this, parts of which we traversed between Buffalo and Cleveland and
                        between Cleveland and Sandusky. There were great gaps in it everywhere,
                        where the newest portions were in process of completion, and the horrific
                        "detour" sign was constantly in evidence, but traveling
                        over the finished sections of it was something like riding in paradise.
                        Think of a long, smooth red brick road stretching out before you mile after
                        mile, the blue waters of Lake Erie to your right, with its waves, ships and
                        gulls; a flat, Holland-like farming land to your left, with occasional small
                        white towns, factory centers, and then field upon field of hay, corn,
                        cabbages, wheat, potatoes—mile after mile and mile after mile.
                    Ohio is too flat. It hasn't the rural innocence and
                        un-sophistication which Indiana seems still to retain, nor yet the
                        characteristics of a thoroughgoing manufacturing world. There are too many
                        factories and too many trolley lines, and a somewhat unsettled and uncertain
                        feeling in the air, as if the state were undecided whether it would be all
                        city and manufacturing or not. I hate that mid-state, uncertain feeling,
                        which comes with a changing condition 
                        anywhere. It is something like that restless simmering into which water
                        bursts before it boils. One wishes that it would either boil or stop
                        simmering. This, as nearly as I can suggest it, is the way the northern
                        portion of Ohio that we saw impressed me.
                    And, unlike my feeling of fifteen or twenty years ago, I think I am just a
                        little weary of manufacturing and manufacturing towns, however well I
                        recognize and applaud their necessity. Some show a sense of harmony and joy
                        in labor and enthusiasm for getting on and being happy; but others, such as
                        Buffalo and Cleveland, seem to have fallen into that secondary or tertiary
                        state in which all the enthusiasm of the original workers and seekers has
                        passed, money and power and privileges having fallen into the hands of the
                        few. There is nothing for the many save a kind of spiritless drudgery which
                        no one appreciates and which gives a city a hard, unlovely and workaday air.
                        I felt this to be so, keenly, in the cases of Buffalo and Cleveland, as of
                        Manchester, Leeds and Liverpool.
                    Years ago these American cities were increasing at the rate of from ten to
                        fifty thousand a year. Then there was more of hope and enthusiasm about them
                        than there is now, more of happy anticipation. It is true that they are
                        still growing and that there is enthusiasm, but neither the growth nor the
                        enthusiasm is of the same quality. As a nation, although we are only
                        twentyfive to thirty years older in point of time, we are centuries older in
                        viewpoint. We have experienced so much in these past few years. We have
                        endured so much. That brood of giants that rose and wrought and fell between
                        1870 and 1910—children of the dragon's teeth, all of them—wrought
                        shackles in the night and bound us hand and foot. They have seized nearly
                        all our national privileges, they have bedeviled the law and the courts and
                        the national and state seats of legislation, they have laid a heavy hand
                        upon our highways and all our means of communication, poisoned our food and
                        suborned our colleges and newspapers; yet in spite of them, so young and
                        strong are  we, we have been going on, limping
                        a little, but still advancing. Giants who spring from dragon's
                        teeth are our expensive luxury. In the high councils of nature there must be
                        some need for them, else they never would have appeared. But I am convinced
                        that these western cities have no longer that younger, singing mood they
                        once had. We are soberer as a nation. Not every man can hope to be
                        president, as we once fancied,—nor a millionaire. We are nearer the European
                        standard of quiet, disillusioned effort, without so many great dreams to
                        stir us.
                    Departing from Buffalo, not stopping to revisit the Falls or those immense
                        turbine generators or indeed any other thing thereabout, we encountered some
                        men who knew Speed and who were starting a new automobile factory. They
                        wanted him to come and work for them, so well known was he as a test man and
                        expert driver. Then we came to a grimy section of factories on a canal or
                        pond, so black and rancidly stale that it interested us. Factory sections
                        have this in common with other purely individual and utilitarian things,—they
                        can be interesting beyond any intention of those who, plan them. This canal
                        or pond was so slimy or oily, or both, that it constantly emitted bubbles of
                        gas which gave the neighborhood an acrid odor. The chimneys and roofs of
                        these warehouses rose in such an unusual way and composed so well that
                        Franklin decided he should like to sketch them. So here we sat, he on the
                        walking beam of a great shovel derrick lowered to near the ground, behind
                        two tug boats anchored on the shore, while I made myself comfortable on a
                        pile of white gravel, some of which I threw into the water. I spent my time
                        speculating as to what sort of people occupied the small drab houses which
                        faced this picturesque prospect. I imagined a poet as great as Walt Whitman
                        being able to live and take an interest in this grimy beauty, with thieves
                        and pick-pockets and prostitutes of a low order for neighbors.
                    A few blocks farther on there came into view an enormous grain elevator,
                        standing up like a huge Egyptian temple in a flat plain. This elevator was
                        composed 
                        
                            EGYPT AT BUFFALO A Grain Elevator
                        
                         of a bundle of concrete tubes or stand pipes,
                        capable of being separately filled or emptied, thus facilitating the loading
                        and unloading of cars and allowing the separate storage of different lots of
                        grain. Before it, as before the great bridge at Nicholsen, we paused,
                        awestruck by its size and design, something colossal and ancient suggested
                        by its lines.
                    Then we sped out among small yellow or drab workingmen's cottages,
                        their yards treeless for the most part, their walls smoky.
                    Lone women were hanging over gates and workingmen plodding heavily about with
                        pipes in their mouths, and squeaky shoes and clothes too loose covering
                        their bodies. Every now and then a church appeared—one of those noble
                        institutions which represent to these poor clowns heaven, pearly gates and
                        jasper streets. Great iron bridges came into view, or some small river or
                        inlet crowded with great ships. Then came the lake shore, lit by a sinking
                        and glorious afternoon sun, and a long stretch of that wonderful brick road,
                        with enormous steel plants on either hand, thousands of automobiles, and
                        lines of foreign looking workingmen going in and out of cottages straggling
                        in conventional order across distant fields. Out over the water was an
                        occasional white sail or a gull, or many gulls. Oh, gulls, gulls, I thought,
                        take me into your free, wild world when I die!
                    Just outside Buffalo, on a spit of land between this wonderful brick road and
                        the lake, we came to the Tackawanna Steel Company, its scores of tall, black
                        stacks belching clouds of smoke and its immense steel pillar supported sheds
                        showing the fires of the forges below. The great war had evidently brought
                        prosperity to this concern, as to others. Thousands of men were evidently
                        working here, Sunday though it was, for the several gates were crowded by
                        foreign types of women carrying baskets and buckets, and the road and the
                        one trolley line which ran along here for a distance were crowded with grimy
                        workers, mostly of fine physical build. In naturally  thought of all the shells and machine guns and cannon they
                        might be making, and somehow it brought the great war a little nearer.
                        Personally, I felt at the time that the war was likely to eventuate in favor
                        of the Germans, in spite of all the odds against them, for anyone who had
                        recently traveled through Germany, England, France and Italy could come to
                        but one conclusion. One German was worth about fifty Italians in force and
                        capacity,—and as for England, if left to contest with Germany alone, she
                        would have been beaten to her knees in three months or less.
                    Be that as it may, my mood was not belligerent and not pro-moral or
                        pro-anything. I am too doubtful of life and its tendencies to enthuse over
                        theories. With nations, as with individuals, the strongest or most desired
                        win, and in the crisis which was then the Germans seemed to me the
                        strongest. I merely hoped that America might keep out of it, in order that
                        she might attain sufficient strength and judgment to battle for her own
                        ideals in the future. For battle she must, never doubt it, and that from
                        city to city and state to state. If she survives the ultimate maelstrom,
                        with her romantic ideals of faith and love and truth, it will be a
                        miracle.
                    This matter of manufacture and enormous industries is always a fascinating
                        thing to me, and careening along this lake shore at breakneck speed, I could
                        not help marveling at it. It seems to point so clearly to a lordship in
                        life, a hierarchy of powers, against which the common man is always
                        struggling, but which he never quite overcomes, anywhere. The world is
                        always palavering about the brotherhood of man and the freedom and
                        independence of the individual; yet when you go through a city like Buffalo
                        or Cleveland and see all its energy practically devoted to great factories
                        and corporations and their interests, and when you see the common man, of
                        whom there is so much talk as to his interests and superiority, living in
                        cottages or long streets, of flats without a vestige of charm or beauty, his
                        labor fixed in price and his ideas circumscribed in part (else he would
                        never be content  with so meager and grimy a
                        world), you can scarcely believe in the equality or even the brotherhood of
                        man, however much you may believe in the sympathy or good intentions of some
                        people.
                    These regions around Buffalo were most suggestive of the great division that
                        has arisen between the common man and the man of executive ability and ideas
                        here in America,—a division as old and as deep as life itself. I have no
                        least complaint against the common man toiling for anybody with ideas and
                        superior brains—who could have?—if it were not for the fact that the superior
                        man inevitably seeks to arrange a dynasty of his blood, that his children
                        and his children's children need never to turn a hand, whereas it
                        is he only who is deserving, and not his children. Wealth tends to
                        aristocracy, and your strong man comes almost inevitably to the conclusion
                        that not only he but all that relates to him is of superior fiber. This may
                        be and sometimes is true, no doubt, but not always, and it is the exception
                        which causes all the trouble. The ordinary mortal should not be compelled to
                        moil and delve for a fool. I refuse to think that it is either necessary or
                        inevitable that I, or any other man, should work for a few dollars a day,
                        skimping and longing, while another, a dunce, who never did anything but
                        come into the world as the heir of a strong man, should take the heavy
                        profits of my work and stuff them into his pockets. It has always been so,
                        I'll admit, and it seems that there is an actual tendency in nature
                        to continue it; but I would just as lief contend with nature on this
                        subject, if possible, as any other. We are not sure that nature inevitably
                        wills it at that. Kings have been slain and parasitic dynasties trampled
                        into the earth.
                    Why not here and now?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE APPROACH TO ERIE
                    BEYOND the Tackawanna Steel Works there was a lake beach
                        with thousands of people bathing and sausage and lemonade venders hawking
                        their wares (I couldn't resist buying one "hot
                        dog"); and after that a long line, miles it seemed to me, of
                        sumptuous country places facing the lake, their roofs and gables showing
                        through the trees; then the lake proper with not much interruption of view
                        for a while; and then a detour, and then a flat, open country road, oiled
                        until it was black, and then a white macadam road. Now that we were out of
                        the hill and mountain country, I was missing those splendid rises and falls
                        of earth which had so diverted me for days; but one cannot have hill country
                        everywhere, and so as we sped along we endeavored to make the best of what
                        was to be seen. These small white and grey wooden towns, with their white
                        wooden churches and Sabbath ambling citizens, began to interest me. What a
                        life, I said to myself, and what beliefs these people entertain! One could
                        discern their creeds by the number of wooden and brick churches and the
                        sense of a Sabbath stillness and propriety investing everything. At dusk,
                        tiny church bells began to ring, church doors, revealing lighted interiors,
                        stood open, and the people began to come forth from their homes and enter. I
                        have no deadly opposition to religion. The weak and troubled mind must have
                        something on which to rest. It is only when in the form of priestcraft and
                        ministerial conniving it becomes puffed up and arrogant and decides that all
                        the world must think as it thinks, and do as it does, and that if one does
                        not one is a heretic and an outcast, that I resent it.
                    The effrontery of these theorists anyhow, with their  sacraments and their catechisms! Think of that mad dog
                        Torquemada bestriding Spain like a Colossus, driving out eight hundred
                        thousand innocent Jews, burning at the stake two thousand innocent doubters,
                        stirring up all the ignorant animal prejudice of the masses, and leaving
                        Spain the bleak and hungry land it is today! Think of it!—a priest, a
                        theorist, a damned speculator in monastic abstrusities, being able to do
                        anything like that! And then the Inquisition as a whole, the burning of poor
                        John Huss, the sale of indulgences and the driving out of Luther. Beware of
                        the enthusiastic religionist and his priestly servitors and leaders! Let not
                        the theorist become too secure! Think of those who, in the name of a mystic
                        unproven God, would seize on all your liberties and privileges, and put them
                        in leash to a wild-eyed exorcist romancer of the type of Peter the Hermit,
                        for instance. Do not Asia and Africa show almost daily the insane uprising
                        of some crack-brained Messiah? Beware! Look with suspicion upon all Billy
                        Sundays and their ilk generally. Let not the uplifter and the reformer
                        become too bold. They inflame the ignorant passions of the mob, who never
                        think and never will. Already America is being too freely tramped over by
                        liquor reformers, magazine and book and picture censors, dreamers and cranks
                        and lunatics who think that mob judgment is better than individual judgment,
                        that the welfare of the ignorant mass should guide and regulate the
                        spiritual inspiration of the individual. Think of one million, or one
                        billion, factory hands, led by priests and preachers, able to dictate to a
                        Spencer whether or not he should compile a synthetic philosophy—or to a
                        Synge, whether he should write a "Play Boy of the Western
                        World," or to a Voltaire, whether he should publish a
                        "Candide."
                    Out on them for a swinish mass! Shut up the churches, knock down the
                        steeples! Harry them until they know the true place of religion,—a weak
                        man's shield! Let us have no more balderdash concerning the duty of
                        man to respect any theory. He can if he chooses. That is  his business. But when he seeks to dictate to
                        his neighbor what he shall think, then it is a different matter.
                    As I rode through this region this evening, I could not help feeling and
                        seeing still operating here all the conditions which years ago I put safely
                        behind me. Here were the people who still believed that God gave the Ten
                        Commandments to Moses on Sinai and that Joshua made the sun to stand still
                        in Avalon. They would hound you out of their midst for lack of faith in
                        beliefs which otherwhere are silly children's tales,—or their
                        leaders would.
                    About seven o'clock, or a little later, we reached the town of
                        Fredonia, still in New York State but near its extreme western boundary. We
                        came very near attending church here, Franklin and I, because a church door
                        on the square stood open and the congregation were singing. Instead, after
                        strolling about for a time, we compromised on a washup in a charming
                        oldfashioned white, square, colonnaded hotel facing the park. We went to the
                        only restaurant, the hotel diningroom being closed, and after that, while
                        Speed took on a supply of gas and oil, we jested with an old Scotchman who
                        had struck up a friendship with Speed and was telling him the history of his
                        youth in Edinburgh, and how and why he wanted America to keep out of the
                        war. He, too, had a mechanical laugh, like that odd creature in the square
                        at Bath, a kind of wild jackalesque grimace, which was kindly and cheerfully
                        meant, however. Finally he grew so gay, having someone to talk to, that he
                        executed a Jack-knife-ish automaton dance which amused me greatly. When
                        Speed was ready we were off again, passing hamlet after hamlet and town
                        after town, and entering Pennsylvania again a few miles west (that small bit
                        which cuts northward between Ohio and New York at Erie and interferes with
                        the natural continuation of New York).
                    The night was so fine and the wind so refreshing that I went off into
                        dreamland again, not into actual sleeping dreams, but into something that
                        was neither sleeping nor waking. These states that I achieved in this way
                        were  so peculiar that I found myself dwelling
                        on them afterward. They were like the effects of a drug. In the trees that
                        we passed I could see strange forms, all the more weird for the moonlight,
                        which was very weak as yet,—grotesque hags and demons whose hair and beards
                        were leaves and whose bony structures were branches. They quite moved me, as
                        in childhood. And on the road we saw strolling lovers occasionally, arm in
                        arm, sometimes clasped in each other's arms, kissing, couples whom
                        the flare of our headlights illumined with a cruel realism.
                    A town called Brocton was passed, a fire arch over its principal street
                        corner bidding all and sundry to stop and consider the joys of Brocton. A
                        town called Pomfret, sweet as trees and snug little houses could make it,
                        had an hotel facing a principal corner, which caused us to pause and debate
                        whether we would go on, it was so homelike. But having set our hearts, or
                        our duty, on Erie, we felt it to be a weakness thus to pause and debate.
                    On and on, through Westfield, Ripley, Northeast, Harbor Creek. It was growing
                        late. At one of these towns we saw a most charming small hotel, snuggled in
                        trees, with rocking chairs on a veranda in front and a light in the office
                        which suggested a kind of expectancy of the stranger. It was after midnight
                        now and I was so sleepy that the thought of a bed was like that of heaven to
                        a good Christian. The most colorful, the most soothing sensations were
                        playing over my body and in my brain. I was in that halcyon state where
                        these things were either real or not, just as you chose—so intoxicating or
                        soothing is fresh air. Sometimes I was here, sometimes in Warsaw or Sullivan
                        or Evansville, Indiana, thirty years before, sometimes back in New York.
                        Occasionally a jolt had brought me to, but I was soon back again in this
                        twilight land where all was so lovely and where I wanted to remain.
                    "Why should we go on into Erie?" I sighed, once we were
                        aroused. "It'll be hot and stuffy."
                    Franklin got down and rang a bell, but no one answered. It was nearing one
                        o'clock. Finally he came  back and
                        said, "Well, I can't seem to rout anybody out over there.
                        Do you want to try?"
                    Warm and sleepy, I climbed down.
                    On the porch outside were a number of comfortable chairs. In the small, clean
                        office was a light and more chairs. It looked like an ideal abiding
                        place.
                    I rang and rang and rang. The fact that I had been so drowsy made me
                        irritable, and the fact that I could hear the bell tinkling and sputtering,
                        but no voice replying and no step, irritated me all the more. Then I kicked
                        for a while and then I tried beating.
                    Not a sound in response.
                    "This is one swell hotel," I groaned irritably, and Speed,
                        lighting a cigarette, added.
                    "Well, I'd like to have a picture of that hotel keeper. He
                        must be a sight, his nose up, his mouth open."
                    Still no answer. Finally, in despair, I went out in the middle of the road
                        and surveyed the hotel. It was most attractive in the moonlight, but
                        absolutely dead to the world.
                    "The blank, blank, blank, blank, blank, blank, blank," I
                        called, resuscitating all my best and fiercest oaths. "To think
                        that a blank, blank, blank, blank, blank could sleep that way anyhow. Here
                        we are, trying to bring him a little business, and off he goes to bed, or
                        she. Blank, blank, blank, the blank, blank, blanked old place
                        anyhow," and back I went and got into the car.
                    "Say," called Speed, derisively, "ain't
                        he a bird? Whaddy y'know. He's a great hotel
                        keeper."
                    "Oh, well," I said hopelessly, and Franklin added,
                        "We're sure to get a good bed in Erie."
                    So on we went, tearing along the road, eager to get anywhere, it was so
                        late.
                    But if we had known what was in store for us we would have returned to that
                        small hotel, I think, and broken in its door, for a few miles farther on, an
                        arrow, pointing northward, read, "Erie Main Road Closed."
                        Then we recalled that there had been a great storm a few days or weeks
                        before and that houses had been 
                        
                            PLEASURE BEFORE BUSINESS The Tackawanna Steel
                                Works
                        
                         washed out by a freshet and a number of
                        people had been killed. The road grew very bad. It was a dirt road, a kind
                        of marshy, oily, mucky looking thing, cut into deep ruts. After a short
                        distance under darksome trees, it turned into a wide, marshy looking area,
                        with a number of railroad tracks crossing it from east to west and numerous
                        freight trains and switch engines jangling to and fro in the dark. A
                        considerable distance off to the north, over a seeming waste of marshy land,
                        was an immense fire sign which read, "Edison General Electric
                        Company, Erie." Overhead, in a fine midnight translucence, hung the
                        stars, innumerable and clear, and I was content to lie back for a while,
                        jolting as we were, and look at them.
                    "Well, there's Erie, anyhow," I commented.
                        "We can't lose that fire sign."
                    "Yes, but look what's ahead of us," sighed
                        Speed.
                    As it developed, that fire sign had nothing to do with Erie proper but was
                        stuck off on some windy beach or marsh, no doubt, miles from the city. To
                        the west of it, a considerable distance, was a faint glow in the sky, a
                        light that looked like anything save the reflection of a city, but so it
                        was. And this road grew worse and worse. The car lurched so at times that I
                        thought we might be thrown out. Speed was constantly stopping it and
                        examining the nature of certain ruts and pools farther on. He would stop and
                        climb down and walk say four or five hundred feet and then come back, and
                        bump on a little further. Finally, having gone a considerable distance on
                        this course, we seemed to be mired. We would dash into a muddy slough and
                        there the wheels would just spin without making any progress. The way out of
                        this was to trample earth behind the wheels and then back up. I began to
                        think we were good for a night in the open. Franklin and I walked back
                        blocks and blocks to see whether by chance we hadn't gotten on the
                        wrong road. Having decided that we were doing as well as could be expected
                        under the circumstances, we returned and sat in the car. After much time
                        wasted we struck a better  portion of the
                        road, coming to where it turned at right angles over the maze of unguarded
                        tracks which we had been paralleling all this while. It was a treacherous
                        place, with neither gates nor watchmen, but just a great welter of dark
                        tracks with freight cars standing here and there, signal lights glimmering
                        in the distance, and engines and trains switching up and down.
                    "Shall we risk it?" asked Speed cautiously.
                    "Sure, we'll have to," replied Franklin.
                        "It's dangerous but it's the only
                        way."
                    We raced over it at breakneck speed and into more unfriendly marshy country
                        beyond. We reached a street, a far-out one, but nevertheless a street,
                        without a house on it and only a few gas lamps flickering in the warm night
                        air. In a region of small wooden cottages, so small as to be pathetic, we
                        suddenly encountered one of those mounted police for which Pennsylvania is
                        famous, sitting by the curbing of a street corner, his gun in his hand and a
                        saddle horse standing near.
                    "Which way into Erie?" we called.
                    "Straight on."
                    "Is this where the storm was?" we asked.
                    "Where the washout was," he replied.
                    We could see where houses had been torn down or broken into or flung askew by
                        some turbulent element much superior to these little shells in which people
                        dwelt.
                    Through brightly lighted but apparently deserted streets we sped on, and
                        finally found a public square with which Speed was familiar. He had been
                        here before. We hurried up to an hotel, which was largely darkened for the
                        night. Out of the door, just as we arrived, were coming two girls in frills
                        and flounces, so conspicuously arrayed that they looked as though they must
                        have been attending an affair of some kind. An hotel attendant was showing
                        them to a taxi. Franklin went in to arrange for three adjoining rooms if
                        possible, and as I followed I heard one attendant say to another,—they had
                        both been showing the girls out—"Can you beat it? Say, they make
                        theirs easy."
                    
                    I wondered. The hotel was quite dark inside.
                    In a few minutes we had adjusted our accommodations and were in our rooms, I
                        in one with a tall window looking out into a spacious court. The bed was
                        large and soft. I fairly fell out of my clothes and sank into it, just
                        having sense enough to turn out the light. In a minute I fancy I was sound
                        asleep, for the next thing I was conscious of was three maids gossiping
                        outside my door.
                    "Blank, blank, blank," I began. "Am I not going to
                        be allowed to get any sleep tonight?"
                    To my astonishment, I discovered the window behind the curtains was blazing
                        with light.
                    I looked at my watch. It was nine o'clock. And we had turned in at
                        three thirty.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    THE WRECKAGE OF A STORM
                    THE next day was another of travel in a hot sun over a
                        country that in part lacked charm, in other parts was idyllically beautiful.
                        We should have reached Sandusky and even the Indiana line by night, if we
                        had been traveling as we expected. But to begin with, we made a late start,
                        did not get out of Erie until noon, and that for various reasons,—a late
                        rising, a very good breakfast and therefore a long one, a shave, a search
                        for picture cards and what not. Our examination of the wreck made by the
                        great storm and flood was extended, and having been up late the night before
                        we were in a lazy mood anyhow.
                    Erie proved exceedingly interesting to me because of two things. One of these
                        was this: that the effects of the reported storm or flood were much more
                        startling than I had supposed. The night before we had entered by some
                        streets which apparently skirted the afflicted district, but today we saw it
                        in all its casual naturalness, and it struck me as something well worth
                        seeing. Blocks upon blocks of houses washed away, upset, piled in heaps, the
                        debris including machinery, lumber, household goods, wagons and carts.
                        Through one wall front torn away I saw a mass of sewing machines dumped in a
                        heap. It had been an agency. In another there was a mass of wool in bags
                        stacked up, all muddied by the water but otherwise intact. Grocery stores,
                        butcher shops, a candy store, a drug store, factories and homes of all kinds
                        had been broken into by the water or knocked down by the cataclysmic
                        onslaught of water and nearly shaken to pieces. Ceilings were down, plaster
                        stripped from the walls, bricks stacked in great heaps,—a sorry sight. We
                        learned that thirtyfive people had been killed and many others injured.
                    
                    Another was that, aside from this Greek-like tragedy, it looked like the
                        native town of Jennie Gerhardt, my pet heroine, though I wrote that she was
                        born in Columbus, a place I have never visited in my life.
                    [That reminds me that a Columbus book reviewer once remarked that it was easy
                        to identify the various places mentioned in Columbus, that the study was so
                        accurate!] But never having seen Columbus, and having another small city in
                        mind, it chanced now that Erie answered the description exactly. These long,
                        narrow, small housed, tree-shaded streets (in many instances saplings)
                        dominated at intervals by large churches or factories,—this indubitably was
                        the world in which Jennie originally moved, breathed, and had her being. I
                        was fascinated when I arose in the morning, to find that this hotel was one
                        such as the pretentious Senator Brander might have chosen to live in, and
                        the polished brasses of whose handrails and stairsteps a woman of Mrs.
                        Gerhardt's limited capabilities would have been employed to polish
                        or scrub. Even the great plate-glass windows lined within and without by
                        comfortable chairs commanding, as they did, the principal public square or
                        park and all the fascinating forces of so vigorous and young a town, were
                        such as would naturally be occupied by the bloods and sports of the village,
                        the traveling salesmen, and the idling bigwigs of political and other
                        realms. It was an excellent hotel, none better; as clean, comfortable and
                        tasteful as one would wish in this workaday world; and past its windows when
                        I first came down looking for a morning paper, were tripping a few shop
                        girls and belated workers carrying lunch boxes.
                    "Jennie's world to the life," I thought.
                        "Poor little girl."
                    But the seventyfive thousand people here—how did they manage to pass their
                        lives without the manifold opportunities and diversions which fill, or can,
                        at least, the minds of the citizens of Paris, Rome, London, Chicago, New
                        York? Here were all these thousands, working and dreaming perhaps, but how
                        did they fill their  lives? I pictured them as
                        dressing at breakfast time, going to work each morning, and then after a day
                        at machines or in stores, with lunches on counter or workbench, returning at
                        night, a fair proportion of them at any rate, to the very little houses we
                        had seen coming in; and after reading those impossible, helter-skelter,
                        higgledy-piggledy, hodge-podges of rumor, false witness, romance, malice,
                        evil glamour and what not—the evening newspapers—retiring to their virtuous
                        couches, socalled, to rise again the next day.
                    I am under no illusions as to these towns, and I hold no highflown notions as
                        to our splendid citizenry, and yet I am intensely sympathetic with them. I
                        have had too much evidence in my time of how they do and feel. I always
                        wonder how it is that people who entertain such highflown ideas of how
                        people are and what they think and say—in writing, theorizing,
                        editorializing—manage to hold such practical and even fierce relations with
                        life itself. Every one of those simple American towns through which we had
                        been passing had its red light district. Every one had its quota of saloons
                        and dives, as well as churches and honorable homes. Who keeps the vulgar,
                        shabby, gross, immoral, inartistic end of things going, if we are all so
                        splendid and worthy as so many current, top-lofty theorizers would have us
                        believe? Here in this little city of Erie, as in every other peaceful
                        American hamlet, you would find the more animal and vigorous among them
                        turning to those same red streets and dives we have been speaking of, while
                        the paler, more storm-beaten, less animal or vigorous, more life-harried,
                        take to the darksome doors of the church. Necessity drives the vast majority
                        of them along paths which they fain would not travel, and the factories and
                        stores in which they work eat up a vitality which otherwise might show
                        itself in wild and unpleasant ways.
                    Here, as I have said, in these plain, uninteresting streets was more evidence
                        of that stern destiny and in-considerateness of the gods which the Greeks so
                        well understood and with such majesty noted, and which always  causes me to wonder how religion manages to
                        survive in any form. For here, several weeks before, was this simple,
                        virtuous town (if we are to believe the moralistic tosh which runs through
                        all our American papers), sitting down after its dinner and a hard
                        day's work to read the evening paper. It was deserving not only of
                        the encomiums of men, but of gods, presumably. And then, the gods presiding
                        over and regulating all things in the interest of man, a rainstorm comes up
                        and swells a small creek or rivulet running through the heart of the town
                        and under small bridges, culverts and even houses—so small is it—into a kind
                        of foaming torrent. All is going well so far. The culverts and bridges and
                        stream beds are large enough to permit the water to be carried away. Only a
                        few roofs are blown off, a few churches struck by lightning, one or two
                        people killed in an ordinary, electric storm way.
                    Enters then the element of human error. This is always the great point with
                        all moralists. Once the crimes or mistakes or indifferences of the ruling
                        powers could be frankly and squarely placed on the shoulders of the devil.
                        No one could explain how a devil who could commit so much error came to live
                        and reign in the same universe with an omnipotent God, but even so. The
                        devil, however, having become a mythical and threadbare scapegoat, it
                        finally became necessary to invent some new palliative of omnipotent action,
                        and so human error came into being as a whipping dummy—man's
                        troubles are due to his own mistaken tendencies, though there is a God who
                        creates and can guide him and who does punish him for doing the things which
                        he ought to know better than to do.
                    Selah! So be it. But here in Erie is this honest or reprehensible community,
                        as you will, and here is the extra severe thunder and rain storm,—a
                        cloudburst, no less. The small brook or rivulet swells and swells. People
                        notice it, perhaps, looking out of their doors and windows, but it seems to
                        be doing well enough. Then, unknown to the great majority of them, a barn a
                        number  of blocks out, a poor, humanly
                        erroneous barn, is washed away against a fair-sized culvert, blocking it
                        completely.
                    The gully beyond the culvert, upstream, is very large and it fills and fills
                        with water. Because of its somewhat widening character a small lake forms,—a
                        heavy body of water pressing every moment more and more heavily against the
                        culvert. When the former has swollen to a great size this latter gives way.
                        There is a downward rush of water—a small mountain of water, no less.
                        Bridges, culverts, houses built over the brook, houses for two blocks on
                        either hand, are suddenly pressed against or even partially filled by water.
                        Citizens reading their evening newspapers, or playing the accordeon or the
                        victrola or cards or checkers or what you will, feel their houses begin to
                        move. Chimneys and plaster fall. Houses collapse completely. In one house
                        eight are instantly killed,—a judgment of God, no doubt, on their particular
                        kind of wickedness. In another house three, in another house four; death
                        being apportioned, no doubt, according to the quality of their crimes.
                        Altogether, thirtyfive die, many are injured, and scores upon scores of
                        houses, covering an area of twentysix blocks in length, are moved, upset,
                        floated blocks from their normal position, or shaken to pieces or consumed
                        by fire.
                    The fire department is called out and the Pennsylvania mounted police. The
                        moving picture camera men come and turn an honest penny. Picture postcard
                        dealers who make money out of cards at a cent apiece photograph all the
                        horrors. The newspapers get out extras, thereby profiting a few dollars, and
                        all Erie, and even all America is interested, entertained, emotionalized.
                        Even we, coming several weeks later and seeing only carpenters, masons, and
                        plumbers at work, where houses are lying about in ruins, are intensely
                        concerned. We ride about examining all the debris and getting a fine wonder
                        out of it, until we are ordered back, at one place, by a thick-witted
                        mounted policeman whose horse has taken fright at our  machine; a thing which a mounted policeman's horse
                        should never do, and which makes a sort of fool of him and so irritates him
                        greatly.
                    "Get out of here!" he shouted angrily at one street corner,
                        glaring at us, "sticking your damn noses into
                        everything!"
                    "What the hell ails you anyhow?" I replied, equally
                        irritable, for we had just been directed by another mounted policeman whose
                        horse had not been frightened by us, to come down in here and see some real
                        tragedy—"The policeman at the last corner told us to come in
                        here."
                    "Well, you can't come in. Get out!" and he flicked
                        his boot with his hand in a contemptuous way.
                    "Ah, go to hell," I replied angrily, but we had to move
                        just the same. The law in boots and a wide rimmed hat, à la Silver City, was
                        before us.
                    We got out, cursing the mounted policeman, for who wants to argue with a
                        long, lean, thin-faced, sallow Pennsylvanian armed with a great sixteen shot
                        revolver? God has never been just to me. He has never made me a mounted
                        policeman. As we cruised about in Franklin's car, looking at all
                        the debris and ruin, I speculated on this problem in ethics and morals or
                        theism or what you will: Why didn't God stop this flood if he loved
                        these people? Or is there no God or force or intelligence to think about
                        them at all? Why are we here, anyhow? Were there any unjust, or only just among them? Why select Erie
                        when He might have assailed Pittsburgh or Broadway and Fortysecond Street,
                        New York, or Philadelphia? Think of what a splendid evidence of judgment
                        that last would have been, or Brooklyn! Oh, God, why not Brooklyn? Why eight
                        people in one house and only one in another and none in many others? Do I
                        seem much too ribald, dear reader? Were the people themselves responsible
                        for not building good barns or culverts or anticipating freshets? Will it
                        come about after a while that every single man will think of the welfare of
                        all other men before he does anything, and so build and so do that no other
                        man will be injured by any action of  his? And
                        will every man have the brains (given by God) so to do—or will God prevent
                        freshets and washouts and barns being swept against weak culverts?
                    I am an honest inquirer. I was asking myself these very questions, wondering
                        over the justice or injustice of life. Do you think there is any such thing
                        as justice, or will you agree with Euripides, as I invariably feel that I
                        must?
                    
                        "Great treasure halls hath Zeus in heaven,
                        From whence to man strange dooms are given
                        Past hope or fear.
                        And the end looked for cometh not,
                        And a path is there where no man thought.
                        So hath it fallen here."
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    CONNEAUT
                    MORE splendid lake road beyond Erie, though we were
                        constantly running into detours which took us through sections dreadful to
                        contemplate. The next place of any importance was the city of Conneaut,
                        Ohio, which revealed one form of mechanical advance I had never dreamed
                        existed. Conneaut being "contagious," as Philosopher
                        Dooley used to say, to the coal fields of Pennsylvania—hard and soft—and
                        incidentally (by water) to the iron and copper mines "up Superior
                        way" in northern Michigan, a kind of transshipping business has
                        sprung up, the coal from these mines being brought here and loaded onto
                        boats for all points on the Great Lakes. Similarly copper and iron coming
                        down from upper Michigan and Wisconsin on boats are here taken out and
                        loaded into cars. I never knew before that iron ore was powdered for
                        shipment—it looks just like a dull red earth—or that they stored it in great
                        hills pending a day of use,—hills which looked to me as though a thousand
                        ships might not lower them in a year. John D. Rockefeller, I am told, was
                        the guiding spirit in all this development here, having first seen the
                        profit and convenience of bringing ore from the mines in northern Michigan
                        south by water to the mills of Pennsylvania and incidentally returning in
                        the same carriers coal to all parts of the Great Lakes and elsewhere. A
                        canny man, that. Won't some American Homer kindly sing of him as
                        one of the great wonders of the world?
                    Optically and for a material thrill, the machinery for transshipping these
                        enormous supplies was most interesting to me.
                    Suppose you were able to take an iron car weighing  say thirty or forty thousand pounds, load it with coal
                        weighing thirty or forty thousand pounds more, and turn it up, quite as you
                        would a coal scuttle, and empty the contents into a waiting ship. . . . Then
                        suppose you looked in the car and saw three or four pieces of coal still
                        lying in it and said to yourself, "Oh, well, I might as well dump
                        these in, too," and then you lifted up the car and dumped the
                        remaining two or three pieces out—wouldn't you feel rather
                        strong?
                    Well, that is what is being done at Conneaut, Ohio, morning, noon and night,
                        and often all night, as all day. The boats bringing these immense loads of
                        iron ore are waiting to take back coal, and so this enormous process of
                        loading and unloading goes on continually. Franklin and I were standing on a
                        high bank commanding all this and a wonderful view of Lake Erie, never
                        dreaming that the little box-like things we saw in the distance being
                        elevated and turned over were steel coal cars, when he suddenly exclaimed,
                        "I do believe those things over there are cars, Dreiser,—steel coal
                        cars."
                    "Get out!" I replied incredulously.
                    "That's what they are," he insisted.
                        "We'll have Speed run the machine over onto that other
                        hill, and then we can be sure."
                    From this second vantage point it was all very clear—great cars being run upon
                        a platform, elevated quickly to a given position over a runway or coal chute
                        leading down into the hold of a waiting steamer, and then quickly and
                        completely upset; the last few coals being shaken out as though each grain
                        were precious.
                    "How long do you think it takes them to fill a ship like
                        that?" I queried.
                    "Oh, I don't know," replied Franklin
                        meditatively.
                    "Let's see how long it takes to empty a car."
                    We timed them—one car every three minutes.
                    "That means twenty cars an hour," I figured, "or
                        one hundred cars in five hours. That ought to fill any
                        steamer."
                    A little farther along this same shore, reaching out  toward the lake, where eventually was a small, white
                        lighthouse, were those same hills of red powdered iron I have been telling
                        you about—great long hills that it must have taken ships and ships and ships
                        of iron to build. I thought of the ownership of all those things, the iron
                        and copper mines in northern Michigan, the vast coal beds in Pennsylvania
                        and elsewhere, and how they were acquired. Did you ever read a true history
                        of them? I'll wager you haven't. Well, there is one, not
                        so detached as it might be, a little propagandistic in tone in spots, but
                        for all that a true and effective work. It is entitled "A History
                        of the Great American Fortunes," by one Gustavus Myers, a curious
                        soul, and ill repaid, as I have reason to know, for his untiring energy. It
                        is really a most important work, and can be had in three compact volumes for
                        about six dollars. It is almost too good to be true, a thorough going,
                        forthright statement of the whole process. Some of his expositions make
                        clear the almost hopeless nature of democracy,—and that is a very important
                        thing to discover.
                    As I have said, this northern portion of Ohio is a mixture of half city and
                        half country, and this little city of Conneaut was an interesting
                        illustration of the rural American grappling with the metropolitan idea. In
                        one imposing drug or candy store (the two are almost synonymous these days)
                        to which Franklin and I went for a drink of soda, we met a striking example
                        of the rural fixity of idea, or perhaps better, religiosity of mind or
                        prejudice, in regard to certain normal human appetites or vices. In most of
                        these small towns and cities in Ohio these days, total abstinence from all
                        intoxicating liquors is enforced by local option. In Conneaut local option
                        had decided that no intoxicating liquor of any kind should be sold there.
                        But since human nature is as it is and must have some small outlet for its
                        human naturalness, apparently they now get what are sometimes called
                        near-drinks, which are sold under such enticing names as
                        "Sparkade" (which is nothing more than a carbonated cider
                        or apple juice), "Gayola," "Cheercoala,"
                        and a  score of other,—all dosed, no doubt,
                        with a trace of some temporarily bracing drug, like caffeine or kolanut. The
                        one which I tried on this occasion was "Sparkade," a
                        feeble, watery thing, which was advertised to have all the invigorating
                        qualities of champagne and to taste the same.
                    "Has this any real champagne in it?" I asked the
                        conventional but rosy cheeked girl who waited on me, jestingly.
                    "No, sir. I don't think so, sir. I've never tried
                        it, though."
                    "What?" I said, "Never tried this wonderful drink?
                        Have you ever tasted champagne?"
                    "Indeed, not!" she replied, with a concerned and
                        self-preservative air.
                    "What, never? Well, then, there's your chance. I'm
                        going to drink a bottle of Sparkade and you can taste mine."
                    I poured out the bubbling stuff and offered it to her.
                    "No, thank you," she replied haughtily, and as I still held
                        it toward her, "No, thank you! I never touch
                        anything of that kind."
                    "But you say it is a nonintoxicant?"
                    "Well, I think it is, but I'm not sure. And anyhow, I
                        don't think I'd care for it."
                    "Don't you belong to some society that is opposed to
                        intoxicants of all kinds?" I queried teasingly.
                    "Yes, sir. Our church is opposed to liquor in any
                        form."
                    "Even Sparkade?" I persisted.
                    She made a contemptuous mouth.
                    "There you have it, Franklin," I said to him. "You
                        see—the Church rules here—a moral opinion. That's the way to bring up
                        the rising generation—above corruption."
                    But outside Conneaut was so delightful. There was such a downpour of sunlight
                        upon great, wide armed trees and mottling the sidewalks and roadways. In the
                        local garage where we stopped for oil and some tools all was 
                        
                            CONNEAUT, OHIO Trading Coal for Iron
                        
                         so orderly and clean—a veritable cosmos of
                        mechanical intricacies which set me to meditating on the vast array of
                        specialties into which the human mind may delve and make a living. Citizens
                        were drifting about in an easy, summery way it seemed to me,—not with that
                        hard pressure which seems to afflict the members of many larger cities. I
                        felt so comfortable here, so much like idling. And Franklin and Speed seemed
                        in the same mood.
                    Query. Was it the noon hour? or the gay, delicious sunlight seen through
                        trees? or some inherent, spiritual quality in Conneaut itself? Query.
                    Beyond Conneaut we scuttled over more of that wonderful road, always in sight
                        of the lake and so fine that when completed it will be the peer of any
                        scenic route in the world, I fancy. Though as yet but earth, it was fast
                        being made into brick. And positively I may assure you that you need never
                        believe people you meet on the road and of whom you seek information as to
                        shortest routes, places to eat, condition of road or the best roads. No
                        traveling motorist seems to know, and no local resident or wiseacre anywhere
                        is to be trusted. People tell you all sorts of things and without the
                        slightest positive information. Franklin told me that out in his home town,
                        Carmel, he had discovered that the wise loafers who hang about the post
                        office and public stores, and had lived in Hamilton County all their lives,
                        had been for years uniformly misdirecting passing automobilists as to the
                        best or shortest route between Carmel and Nobels-ville, Indiana. In some
                        cases it might be done, he thought, in a spirit of deviltry, in others
                        prejudice as to routes was responsible, in still others nothing more than
                        blank ignorance as to what constitutes good roads!
                    Here in Conneaut, as we were entering the city by "the largest
                        viaduct in the world," we asked an old toll keeper, who collected
                        thirty cents from us as a token of his esteem, which was the shortest and
                        best road to Ashtabula and whether there wasn't a good shore
                        road.
                    "Well, now, I'll tell you," he began, striking a
                        position  and beginning to smooth his abundant
                        whiskers. "There is a shore road that runs along the lake, but it
                        hain't no good. If you're a-goin' fer business
                        you'll take the Ridge Road, but if you're just out joy
                        ridin' and don't care where you go, you can go by the
                        lake. The Ridge Road's the business man's road. There
                        hain't no good road along the lake at this time o' year,
                        with all the rain we've been havin.'"
                    Franklin, I am sure, was inclined to heed his advice at first, whereas I,
                        having listened to similar bits of misinformation all the way out from New
                        York, was inclined to be skeptical and even angry, and besides the car
                        wasn't mine. These wretched old fixtures, I said to myself, who had
                        never been in an automobile more than a half dozen times in their lives,
                        were the most convinced, apparently, as to the soundness of their
                        information. They infuriated me at times, particularly when their advice
                        tended to drive us out of the course I was interested in, and the shore road
                        was the road I wanted to follow. I persuaded Franklin to pay no attention to
                        this old fussbutton.
                    "What does he know?" I inquired. "There he sits at
                        that bridge day in and day out and takes toll. Farmers with heavy loads may
                        report all sorts of things, but we've seen how fine the dirt roads
                        have been everywhere we've followed them."
                    Speed agreed with me.
                    So we struck out along the shore road and nothing could have been better. It
                        was not exactly smooth, but it was soft with a light dust and so close to
                        the lake that you could see the tumbling waves and throw a stone into them
                        if you chose; and at certain points where a cove gave a wider view, there
                        were people bathing and tents tacked down along the shore against the wind.
                        It was wonderful. Every now and then we would encounter young men and women
                        bathers ambling along the road in their water costumes, and in one instance
                        the girl was so very shapely and so young and attractive that we exclaimed
                        with pleasure. When she saw us looking at her 
                        she merely laughed and waved her hands. At another point two young girls
                        standing beside a fence called, "Don't you wish you could
                        take us along?" They were attractive enough to make. anybody wish
                        it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    THE GAY LIFE OF THE LAKE SHORE
                    THEN came Ashtabula with another such scene as that at
                        Conneaut, only somewhat more picturesque, since the road lay on high ground
                        and we had a most striking view of the lake, with a world of coal cars
                        waiting to be unloaded into ships, and ships and cranes and great moving
                        derricks which formed a kind of filigree of iron in the distance with all
                        the delicacy of an etching.
                    These coal and iron towns of Ohio were as like in their way as the larger
                        manufacturing centers of the East in theirs. Coming into this place we
                        passed through a small slum section at the end of the bridge by which we
                        were entering, and because there was a water scene here which suggested the
                        Chicago River in its palmiest days before it was renovated and practically
                        deserted, I suggested that we stop and look at it. Three bums of the
                        "Chimmie" Fadden-"Chuck" Connors type
                        were standing in a doorway adjoining a saloon. No sooner did they see us
                        pause than they nudged each other and whispered. Franklin and I passed them
                        to look at the scene. Coming back we climbed in the car, and as we did so
                        the huskiest of the three stepped up and, with a look of humility assumed
                        for the occasion, whimpered: "Say, boss, could you help a poor
                        down-and-out to a mouthful of food?"
                    I looked at him wearily, because the bluff was too much.
                    Franklin, however, reached in his pocket and gave him fifteen cents.
                    "Why fifteen cents, Franklin?" I enquired.
                    "Oh, well," he replied, "it's an easy way
                        to get rid of them. I don't like the looks of this
                        place."
                    
                    I turned to look at the recipient back among his friends. His mouth was
                        pulled down at one corner as he related, with a leer of contempt, how easy
                        it was to bleed these suckers. He even smiled at me as much as to say,
                        "You mark!" I leered back with the greatest contempt I
                        could assemble on such short notice—a great deal—but it did not cheer me any.
                        He had the fifteen cents. He was of the same order of brain that today can
                        be hired to kill a man for fifty dollars, or will undertake to rob or burn a
                        house.
                    And after Ashtabula, which was as charming as any of these little cities to
                        look at, with wide shady streets of homes and children playing gaily on
                        lawns and in open lots everywhere, came Geneva-on-the-Lake, or Geneva Beach,
                        as it seemed to be called—one of those new-sprung summer resorts of the
                        middle west, which always amuse me by their endless gaucheries and the
                        things they have not and never seem to miss. One thing they do have is the
                        charm of newness and hope and possibility, which excels almost anything of
                        the kind you can find elsewhere.
                    America can be the rawest, most awkward and inept land at times. You look at
                        some of its scenes and people on occasions, and you wonder why the calves
                        don't eat them. They are so verdant. And yet right in the midst of
                        a thought like this you will be touched by a sense of youth and beauty and
                        freedom and strength and happiness in a vigorous, garish way which will
                        disarm you completely and make you want to become a part of it all, for a
                        time anyhow.
                    Here lay this particular beach, high up above the lake, for all along this
                        northern portion of Ohio the land comes close to the water, retaining an
                        altitude of sixty or seventy feet and then suddenly dropping, giving room
                        for a sandy beach say sixty or seventy feet wide, where a few tents may
                        sometimes be found. And on this higher land, facing the water, are strung
                        out all the cottages and small hotels or summer boarding places, with
                        occasionally some stores and merry-go-rounds and restaurants,  though not as a rule the gaudy rumble-jumble
                        of a beach like Coney Island.
                    And the costumes! Heaven bless and preserve us! The patrons of this beach, as
                        I learned by inquiry, come mostly from Pittsburg and points south in
                        Ohio—Columbus, Dayton, Youngstown. They bring their rattan bags and small
                        trunks stuffed to bursting with all the contraptions of assumed high life,
                        and here for a period of anywhere from two days to three months, according
                        to their means, associations, social position, they may be seen disporting
                        themselves in the most colorful and bizarre ways. There was a gay welter of
                        yellow coats with sky-blue, or white, or black-and-white skirts—and of blue,
                        green, red or brown coats, mostly knit of silk or near-silk—with dresses or
                        skirts of as sharply contrasting shades. Hats were a minus quantity, and
                        ribbons for the hair ranged all the way from thin blue or red threads to
                        great flaring bands of ribbon done into enormous bows and fastened over one
                        ear or the other. Green, blue, red and white striped stick candy is nothing
                        by comparison.
                    There were youths in tan, blue and white suits, but mostly white with sailor
                        shirts open at the neck, white tennis shoes and little round white navy
                        caps, which gave the majority of them a jocular, inconsequential air.
                    And the lawns of these places! In England, and most other countries abroad, I
                        noticed the inhabitants seek a kind of privacy even in their summer
                        gaieties—an air of reserve and exclusiveness even at Monte Carlo—but here!!
                        The lawns, doors and windows of the cottages and boarding houses were open
                        to the eyes of all the world. There were no fences. Croquet, tennis,
                        basketball were being played at intervals by the most vivid groups. There
                        were swings, hammocks, rockers and camp chairs scattered about on lawns and
                        porches. All the immediate vicinity seemed to be a-summering, and it wanted
                        everyone to know it.
                    As we sped into this region and stopped in front of a restaurant with a
                        general store attachment at one side,  two
                        youths of that summering texture I have indicated, and both in white, drew
                        near. They were of a shallow, vacant character. The sight of a dusty car,
                        carrying a license tag not of their own state, and with bags and other
                        paraphernalia strapped onto it, seemed to interest them.
                    "From New York, eh?" inquired the taller, a cool, somewhat
                        shrewd and calculating type, but with that shallowness of soul which I have
                        indicated—quite vacant indeed. "Did you come all the way from New
                        York City?"
                    "Yes," said Franklin. "Is there a good restaurant
                        anywhere hereabout?"
                    "Well, this is about the best, outside the boarding houses and inns
                        around here. You might find it nicer if you stayed at one of the inns,
                        though."
                    "Why?" asked Franklin. "Is the food
                        better?"
                    "Well, not so much better—no. But you'd meet nicer people.
                        They're more sociable."
                    "Yes, now our inn," put in the smaller one of the two, a
                        veritable quip in his ultra-summer appearance. "Why don't
                        you come over to our place? It's very nice there—lots of nice
                        people."
                    I began to look at them curiously. This sudden burst of friendship or genial
                        companionship—taking up with the stranger so swiftly—interested me. Why should
                        they be so quick to invite one to that intimacy which in most places is
                        attained only after a period—and yet, when you come to think of it, I
                        suddenly asked myself why not. Is chemistry such a slow thing that it can
                        only detect its affinities through long, slow formal movements? I knew this
                        was not true, but also I knew that there was no affinity here, of any
                        kind—merely a shallow, butterfly contact. These two seemed so very
                        lightminded that I had to smile.
                    "They're nice genial people, are they?" I put in.
                        "Do you suppose we could introduce ourselves and be
                        friendly?"
                    
                    "Oh, we'd introduce you—that's all right,"
                        put in this latest Sancho. "We can say you're friends of
                        ours."
                    "Shades of the Hall Room Boys!" I exclaimed to myself.
                        "What kind of world is this anyway—what sort of people? Here we ride
                        up to a casino door in the heart of a summering community, and two soufflé
                        youths in white offer to introduce us to their friends as friends of theirs.
                        Is it my looks, or Franklin's, or the car, or what?"
                    A spirit of adventure began to well up in me. I thought of a few days spent
                        here and what they might be made to mean. Thus introduced, we might soon
                        find interesting companionship.
                    But I looked at Franklin and my enthusiasm cooled slightly. For an adventure
                        of any kind one needs an absolutely unified enthusiasm for the same thing,
                        and I was by no means sure that it existed here. Franklin is so solemn at
                        times—such a moral and social mainstay. I argued that it was best, perhaps,
                        not to say all that was in my mind, but I looked about me hopefully. Here
                        were all those costumes I have indicated.
                    "This seems to be quite a place," I said to this camp
                        follower. "Where do they all come from?"
                    "Oh, Pittsburg principally, and Cleveland. Most of the people right
                        around here are from Pittsburg."
                    "Is there very good bathing here?"
                    "Wonderful. As good as anywhere."
                    I wondered what he knew about bathing anywhere but here.
                    "And what else is there?"
                    "Oh, tennis, golf, riding, boating." He fairly bristled
                        with the social importance of the things he was suggesting.
                    "They seem to have bright colors here," I went on.
                    "You bet they do," he continued. "There are a lot
                        of swell dressers here, aren't there, Ed?"
                    "That's right," replied his summery friend.
                        "Some beauts here. George! You ought to see 'em some
                        days."
                    
                    "They're very glorious, are they?"
                    "That's what."
                    The conversation now turned back to us. Where were we going? What were we
                        going for? Were we enjoying the trip? Were the roads good?
                    We told them of Indiana, and rose immediately in their estimation. We finally
                        declined the invitation to be introduced into their circle. Instead we went
                        into this restaurant, where the reception room was also a salesroom of
                        sorts, and here we idled, while awaiting dinner.
                    I was still examining picture postcards when a young man, quite young, with a
                        pink face and yellowish hair—a Scandinavian, I took it—came up beside me and
                        stood looking at the pictures—almost over my shoulder I thought, though there
                        was plenty of room in either direction. After a few moments I turned,
                        somewhat irritated by his familiarity, and glanced at his shoes and suit,
                        which were not of the best by any means, and at his hands, which were strong
                        and well formed but rough.
                    "Nice pictures of things about here," he observed, in a
                        voice which seemed to have a trace of the Scandinavian in it.
                    "Yes, very," I replied, wondering a little, uncertain
                        whether it was merely another genial American seeking anyone to talk to or
                        someone desirous of aid. You never can tell.
                    "Yes," he went on a little nervously, with a touch of
                        strain in his voice, "it is nice to come to these places if you
                        have the money. We all like to come to them when we can. Now I would like to
                        come to a place like this, but I haven't any money. I just walked
                        in and I thought maybe I might get something to do here. It's a
                        nice brisk place with lots of people working."
                    "Now, what's his game?" I asked myself, turning
                        toward him and then away, for his manner smacked a little of that unctuous
                        type of religious and charitable emotion which one encounters in side-street
                        missions—a  most despicable type of
                        sanctimonious religiosity and duty worship.
                    "Yes, it seems to be quite brisk," I replied, a little
                        coldly.
                    "But I have to get something yet tonight, that is sure, if I am to
                        have a place to sleep and something to eat."
                    He paused, and I looked at him, quite annoyed I am sure. "A
                        beggar," I thought. "Beggars, tramps, and
                        ne'er-do-wells and beginners are always selecting me. Well,
                        I'll not give him anything. I'm tired of it. I did not
                        come in here to be annoyed, and I won't be. Why should I always be
                        annoyed? Why didn't he pick on Franklin?" I felt myself
                        dreadfully aggrieved, I know.
                    "You'll find the manager back there somewhere, I
                        presume," I said, aloud. "I'm only a stranger
                        here myself." Then I turned away, but only to turn back as he
                        started off. Something about him touched me—his youth, his strength, his
                        ambitions, the interesting way he had addressed me. My rage wilted. I began
                        to think of times when I was seeking work. "Wait a
                        minute," I said; "here's the price of a meal, at
                        least," and I handed him a bit of change. His face, which had
                        remained rather tense and expressionless up to this time—the face that one
                        always puts on in the presence of menacing degradation—softened.
                    "Thank you, thank you," he said feverishly. "I
                        haven't eaten today yet. Really I haven't. But I may get
                        something to do here." He smiled gratefully.
                    I turned away and he approached the small dark American who was running this
                        place, but I'm not sure that he got anything. The latter was a very
                        irritable, waspish person, with no doubt many troubles of his own. Franklin
                        approached and I turned to him, and when I looked again my beggar was
                        gone.
                    I often wish that I had more means and a kindlier demeanor wherewith to serve
                        difficult, struggling youth.
                    I could not help noticing that the whole region, as well as this restaurant,
                        seemed new and crudely assembled.  The very
                        management of this restaurant, the best in the place, was in all likelihood
                        not the same which had obtained in the previous year. A thing like that is
                        so characteristic of these mid-western resort atmospheres. The help (you
                        could by no means call them waiters, for they were untrained in that branch
                        of service) were girls, and mostly healthy, attractive ones—here, no doubt,
                        in order to catch a beau or to be in a summer resort atmosphere. As I have
                        previously indicated, anybody, according to the lay mind west of the
                        Atlantic, can run a restaurant. If you have been a cook on a farm for some
                        hay workers or reapers, so much the better. You are thereby entitled to cook
                        and to be hailed as a restaurateur. Any domestic can "wait on
                        table." All you have to do is to bring in the dishes and take them
                        out again. All you need to do to steak or fish or fowl is to fry it. The art
                        of selection, arrangement, combination are still mysteries of the decadent
                        East. The West is above these things—the new West—God bless it! And if you ask
                        for black coffee in a small cup, or potatoes prepared in any other way than
                        fried, or should you desire a fish that carried with it its own peculiar
                        sauce, they would stare at you as peculiar, or, better
                        yet, with uncomprehending eyes.
                    But these girls, outside and in—what a contrast in American social
                        relationships they presented! During our dinner the two youths had departed
                        and got two maids from somewhere—maids of the mildest, most summery aspect—and
                        were now hanging about, pending our return, in order to have more words and
                        to indicate to us the true extent of their skill as beaux and summer
                        gentlemen in waiting. As I looked through the windows at those outside and
                        contrasted them with those within and now waiting on us, I was struck with
                        the difference, class for class, between the girl who chooses to work and
                        the girl of the same station practically who would rather do something else.
                        The girls outside were of the gum-chewing, typewriter brand of summer siren,
                        decked in white and blue dresses of the most feathery, flouncy  character, and sport coats or jackets in
                        broad, heavy stripes, one black and white, another orange and blue, and the
                        usual ribbon in their hair. They seemed to me to be obsessed by the idea of
                        being summery and nonchalant and sporty and preternaturally gay—indeed, all
                        the things which the Sunday newspaper summer girl should be—a most amazing
                        concoction at best, and purely a reflection or imitation of the vagrant
                        thoughts of others—copies, marsh fire. Incidentally it struck me that in the
                        very value of things they were destined to be nothing more than the toys and
                        playthings of men—such men as they might be able to attract—not very
                        important, perhaps, but as vigorous and inconsequential as themselves. On
                        the other hand, those on the inside were so much more attractive because
                        they lacked the cunning or silly sophistication of these others and because,
                        by the very chemistry of their being, apparently, they were drawn to routine
                        motherhood, legitimate or otherwise.
                    Personally I am by no means a conventionalist. I have never been able to
                        decide which earthly state is best. All life is good, all life, to the
                        individual who is enjoying himself and to the Creator of all things. The
                        sting of existence is the great thing—the sensory sting, not its vocal
                        theories—but that shuts out the religionist and the moralist and they will
                        damn me forever. But still I so believe. Those girls outside, and for all
                        their fineness and fripperies, were dull; whereas, those inside (some of
                        them anyhow) had a dreamy, placid attractiveness which needed no particular
                        smartness of speech or clothing to set them off. One of them, the one who
                        waited on us, was a veritable Tess, large, placid, sensuous, unconsciously
                        seductive. Many of the others seemed of a life they could not master but
                        only gaze after. Where are the sensible males to see them,
                        I thought. How is it that they escape while those others flaunt their dizzy
                        gauds? But I soon consoled myself with the thought that they would not
                        escape—for long. The strong male knows the real woman. Over and above
                        ornament is the chemic  attraction which
                        laughs at ornament. I could see how the waitresses might fare better in love
                        than the others.
                    But outside were the two youths and their maids waiting for us and we were
                        intensely interested and as genial and companionable as might be. One of
                        these girls was dark, svelte, languorous, rouged—a veritable siren of the
                        modern moving picture school—or rather a copy of a siren. The other was
                        younger, blonde, less made-up-ish, but so shallow. Dear, kind heaven, how
                        shallow some people really are! And their clothes!
                    The conversation going on between them, for our benefit largely, was a thing
                        to rejoice in or weep over, as you will. It was a hodge-podge of shallow
                        humor and innuendo, the innuendo that conceals references to sex and brings
                        smiles of understanding to the lips of the initiated.
                    "Lelah here is some girl, I'd have you know." This
                        from the taller of the two summer men, who was feeling of her arm
                        familiarly.
                    "How do you know?" This from Lelah, with
                        a quizzical, evasive smile.
                    "Don't I?"
                    "Do you?"
                    "Well, you ought to know."
                    "I notice that you have to ask."
                    Or this other gem from the two men:
                    "Ella has nice shoes on today."
                    "That isn't all Ella has on, is it?"
                    "Well, not quite. She has a pretty smile."
                    I gathered from the many things thus said, and the way the girls were
                        parading up and down in all directions in their very pronounced costumes,
                        that if sex were not freely indulged in here, the beholding of it with the
                        eyes and the formulation of it in thought and appearance were great factors
                        in the daily life and charm of the place. There are ways and ways for the
                        natural tendency of the world to show itself. The flaunting of desire, in
                        its various aspects, is an old process. It was so being flaunted here.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    A SUMMER STORM AND SOME COMMENTS ON THE PICTURE
                        POSTCARD
                    SHORTLY after leaving Ashtabula we ran into a storm—one of
                        those fine, windy, dusty, tree-groaning rains that come up simply and
                        magnificently and make you feel that you are going to be blown into kingdom
                        come and struck by lightning en route. As we sped through great aisles of
                        trees and through little towns all bare to our view through their open
                        doors, as though they had not a thing to conceal or a marauder to fear, the
                        wind began to rise and the trees to swish and whistle, and by the glare of
                        our own powerful headlight we saw clouds of dust rolling toward us. A few
                        heavy drops of water hit my head and face and someone, I suppose Franklin
                        (let me put all the blame I can on him in this story—what else are hosts
                        for?), suggested that we put up the top.
                    Now I, for one, vote automobile tops a nuisance. They are a crime, really.
                        Here was a fine electric storm, with the heavens torn with great poles of
                        light and the woods and the fields and distant little cottages revealed
                        every few seconds with startling definiteness—and we had to put up the top.
                        Why? Well, there were bags and coats and a camera and I know not what else,
                        and these things had to be protected. My own glasses began to drip and my
                        chin and my hair were very wet. So up went the top.
                    But, worse than that, the sides had to go up, for now the wind was driving
                        the rain sidewise and we were all getting soaked anyhow—so up went the sides.
                        Then, thus protected and with all the real beauty of the night shut out, we
                        rattled along, I pressing my nose to the isinglass windows and wishing that
                        I might see it all. I  cursed God and man and
                        close, stuffy automobiles. I snuggled down in my corner and began to dream
                        again when presently, say one hour later, or two or three (it must have been
                        two or three, now that I think of it), another enormous bridge such as that
                        we had seen at Nicholsen, Pennsylvania, hove into view, down a curve which
                        our lamps illuminated with amazing clearness.
                    "Whoa!" I called to Speed, as though he were a horse.
                    "You're right," commented Franklin, without
                        further observation on my part. "That is interesting,
                        isn't it?" Though it was still raining, we opened those
                        storm curtains and clambered out, walking on ahead of the car to stand and
                        look at it. As we did a train came from somewhere—a long, brightly lighted
                        passenger train—and sped over it as noiselessly as if it had been on solid
                        ground. A large arch rose before us, an enormous thing, with another
                        following in the distance and bridging a stream.
                    "Think I'd better sketch that?" queried
                        Franklin.
                    "Indeed I do," I replied, "if it interests you.
                        It's wonderful to me."
                    We wandered on down the curve and under it, through a great arch. A second
                        bridge came into view—this time of iron—the one over which our road ran, and
                        beyond that a third, of iron or steel also, much higher than either of the
                        others. This last was a trolley bridge, and as we stood here a trolley car
                        approached and sped over it. At the same time another train glided over the
                        great stone arch.
                    "What is this—Bridge Centre?" I inquired.
                    "Transportationsburg," replied Franklin.
                        "Can't you see?"
                    We fell to discussing lights and shadows and the best angle at which to make
                        the drawing.
                    But there was no umbrella between us—useless things, umbrellas—and so I had to
                        lay my mackintosh on Franklin's head and hold it out in front of
                        him like an awning, while he peered under it and sketched and I played porch
                        posts. Sketching so, we talked of the great walls  of Europe—Spain and Italy—old Roman walls—and how these new
                        things being built here in this fashion must endure—long after we were
                        gone—and leave traces of what a wonderful nation we were, we Americans
                        (German-Americans, Austro-Americans, Greek-Americans, Italian-Americans,
                        French-Americans, English-Americans, Hindu-Americans).
                    "Just think, Franklin," I chortled, "you and I may
                        be remembered for thousands and thousands of years as having stood here
                        tonight and sketched this very bridge."
                    "Uh, huh," he commented.
                    "It may be written that 'In A. D. 1915, Thcodore Dreiser,
                        accompanied by one Franklin Booth, an artist, visited the site of this
                        bridge, which was then in perfect condition, and made a sketch of it,
                        preserved now in that famous volume entitled "A Hoosier
                        Holiday," by Theodore Dreiser.'"
                    "You know how to advertise your own wares, don't
                        you?" he said. "Who made the sketch?"
                    "Why, Franklin Booth, of course."
                    "But you didn't say so."
                    "Why didn't I?"
                    "Because you didn't."
                    "Oh, well. We'll correct all little errors like that in the
                        proof. You'll be safe enough."
                    "Will I?"
                    "Surely you will."
                    "Well, in that case I'll finish the sketch. For a moment I
                        thought I wouldn't. But now that I'm sure to be preserved
                        for posterity—"
                    He went scratching on.
                    The lights we saw ahead of us were those of Paines-ville, Ohio, another
                        manufacturing and trans-shipping city like Conneaut and Ashtabula, and this
                        was the Grand River we were crossing, a rather modest stream, it seemed to
                        me, for so large a name. (I learned its title from a picture postcard later
                        in the city.)
                    One should be impressed with the development of this  picture postcard business in American towns. What is there to
                        photograph, you might ask, of any of these places, large or small? Well,
                        waterworks and soldiers' monuments and the residences of principal
                        citizens, and so on and so forth. When I was a boy in Warsaw and earlier in
                        Evansville and Sullivan, there wasn't a single picture postcard of
                        this kind—only those highly colored "panoramas" or group
                        views of the principal cities, like New York and Chicago, which sold for a
                        quarter or at least fifteen cents. Of the smaller towns there was nothing,
                        literally nothing. No small American town of that date would have presumed
                        to suppose that it had anything of interest to photograph, yet on this trip
                        there was scarcely a village that did not contain a rack somewhere of local
                        views, if no more than of clouds and rills and cattle standing in water near
                        an old bridge. By hunting out the leading drug store first, we could almost
                        invariably discover all there was to know about a town in a scenic way, or
                        nearly all. It was most gratifying.
                    This change in the number and character of our national facilities as they
                        affect the very small towns had been impressing me all the way. When I was
                        from eight to sixteen years of age, there was not a telephone or a trolley
                        car or an ice cream soda fountain (in the modern sense of that treasure) or
                        a roller-skating rink or a roller skate or a bicycle, or an automobile or
                        phonograph, or a moving picture theatre, or indeed anything like the number
                        of interesting and new things we have now—flying machines and submarines, for
                        instance. It is true that just about that time—1880-1886—when I left Warsaw
                        for the world outside, I was beginning to encounter the first or some
                        solitary examples of these things. Thus the first picture postcards I ever
                        found were in Chicago in 1896 or thereabouts, several years after I had
                        visited the principal eastern cities, and I would have seen them if there
                        had been any. The first electric light I ever saw was in Evansville,
                        Indiana, in 1882, where to my youthful delight and amazement they were
                        erecting tall, thin skeleton towers of steel, not less  than one hundred and twentyfive feet high, and only about four
                        feet in diameter—(you may still see them in Fort Wayne, Indiana)—and carrying
                        four arc lights each at the top. Fifty such towers were supposed to light
                        the whole city of Evansville, a place of between forty and fifty thousand,
                        and they did, in a dim, mooney way. I remember as a boy of twelve standing
                        in wonder, watching them being put up. Evansville seemed such a great city
                        to me then. These towers were more interesting as a spectacle than useful as
                        a lighting system, however, and were subsequently taken down.
                    The first telephone I ever saw was one being installed in the Central Fire
                        Station at Vincennes, Indiana, in 1880 or thereabouts. At the time my mother
                        was paying the enforced visit, later to be mentioned, to the wife of the
                        captain of this particular institution, a girl who had worked for her as a
                        seamstress years before. I was no more than eight at the time, and full of a
                        natural curiosity, and I remember distinctly staring at the peculiar
                        instrument which was being hung on a post in the centre of the fire station,
                        and how the various firemen and citizens stood about and gaped. There was
                        much excitement among the men because of the peculiar powers of the strange
                        novelty. I think, from the way they stared at it, while Frank Bellett, the
                        Captain, first talked through it to some other office in the little city,
                        they felt there must be something spooky about it—some legerdemain by which
                        the person talking at the other end made himself small and came along the
                        wire, or that there was some sprite with a voice inside the box which as an
                        intermediary did all the talking for both parties. I know I felt that there
                        must be some such supernatural arrangement about it, and for this reason I
                        too looked with awe and wonder. As days passed, however, and considerable
                        talking was done through it, and my own mother, putting the receiver to her
                        ear, listened while her friend, the wife, called from somewhere outside, my
                        awe, if not the wonder, wore off. For years, though, perhaps because I never
                        used one until nearly 
                        
                            THE BRIDGE THAT IS TO MAKE FRANKLIN FAMOUS
                        
                         ten years later, the mystic character of the
                        thing stuck in my mind.
                    It was much the same thing with the trolley car and the roller skate and the
                        bicycle. I never saw a trolley car until I was seventeen or eighteen years
                        of age, and then only an experimental one conducted on a mile of track laid
                        on North Avenue, Chicago, by the late Charles T. Yerkes, at that time the
                        principal traction magnate of Chicago. He was endeavoring to find out
                        whether the underground trolley was a feasible thing for use in Chicago or
                        not and had laid a short experimental section, or had had it laid for him. I
                        was greatly astonished, when I first saw it, to think it would go without
                        any visible means of propulsion—and that in spite of the fact that I had
                        already seen the second cable road built in America running in State Street,
                        Chicago, as early as 1884. At that time, our family having come to Chicago
                        for the summer, I ran an errand for a West Madison Street confectioner which
                        took me to a candy manufacturer's basement in State Street. There,
                        through a window in the front of the store, underground, I saw great engines
                        going, and a cable on wheels spinning by. Every now and then the grip of a
                        car would appear and disappear past an opening under the track, which was
                        here. It was most astonishing, and gave me a sense of vast inexplicable
                        mystery which is just as lively today as it ever was, and as warranted.
                    In regard to the bicycle, the first one I ever saw was in Warsaw in 1884—a
                        high-wheeled one, not a safety!—and the first pair of roller skates I ever
                        saw was in the same place in 1885, when some adventurous amusement provider
                        came there and opened a roller-skating parlor. It was a great craze for a
                        while, and my brother Ed became an expert, though I never learned. There
                        were various storms in our family over the fact that he was so eager for it,
                        staying out late and running away, and because my mother, sympathetic soul,
                        aided and abetted him, so keen was her sympathy with childhood and play,
                        whereas my father, stern disciplinarian that he was, objected.  Often have I seen Ed hanging about my
                        mother's skirts, and she, distressed and puzzled, finally giving
                        him a quarter out of her hard earned store to enjoy himself. He ought
                        certainly to have the most tender memories of her.
                    The first ice cream soda fountain I ever saw, or the first ice cream soda I
                        ever tasted, was served to me in Warsaw, Indiana, at the corner book store,
                        opposite the courthouse, subsequently destroyed. That was in 1885. It was
                        called to my attention by a boy named Judson Morris, whose father owned the
                        store, and it served as an introduction and a basis for future friendship,
                        our family having newly moved to Warsaw. It had just succeeded a drink known
                        as the milk shake, which had attained great popularity everywhere the
                        preceding year. But ice cream soda! By my troth, how pale and watery milk
                        shake seemed in comparison! I fell, a giddy victim, and have never since
                        recovered myself or become as enthusiastic over any other beverage.
                    And so I could continue—leaving Franklin and Speed waiting patiently in
                        Painesville, Ohio, in the rain, but I won't. We hastened in after
                        Franklin made his sketch, and, owing to some extraordinary rush of business
                        which had filled the principal hotel, were compelled to take refuge in a
                        rickety barn of a house known as "The Annex"—an annex to
                        this other and much better one.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    IN CLEVELAND
                    THE next morning we set off under grey, lowery clouds,
                        over the shore road to Cleveland, which proved better than that between Erie
                        and Painesville, having no breaks and being as smooth as a table. At one
                        place we had to stop in an oatfield where the grain had been newly cut and
                        shocked, to see if we could still jump over the shocks as in days of yore,
                        this being a true test, according to Speed, as to whether one was in a fit
                        condition to live eighty years, and also whether one had ever been a true
                        farmer. Franklin and Speed leaped over the shocks with ease,
                        Franklin's coat skirts flying out behind in a most bird-like
                        manner, and Speed's legs and arms taking most peculiar angles. When
                        it came my turn to do it, I funked miserably. Actually, I failed so badly
                        that I felt very much distressed, being haunted for miles by the thought of
                        increasing age and impending death, for once I was fairly athletic and could
                        run three miles at a steady jog and not feel it. But now—well now, whenever I
                        reached the jumping point I couldn't make it. My feet refused to
                        leave the ground. I felt heavy.
                    Alas! Alas!
                    And then we had to pause and look at the lake, which because of the storm the
                        night before and the stiff northwest wind blowing this morning, offered a
                        fine tumbling spectacle. As to dignity and impressiveness I could see no
                        difference between this lake shore and most of the best sea beaches which I
                        have seen elsewhere. The waves were long and dark and foamy, rolling in,
                        from a long distance out, with a thump and a roar which was as fierce as
                        that of any sea. The beach was of smooth, grey sand, with occasional piles
                        of driftwood scattered along  its length, and
                        twisted and tortured trees hanging over the banks of the highland above. In
                        the distance we could see the faint outlines of the city of Cleveland, a
                        penciled blur, and over it a cloud of dark smoke, the customary banner of
                        our manufacturing world. I decided that here would be a delightful place to
                        set up a writing shack or a studio, transferring all my effects from my
                        various other dream homes, and spending my latter days. I should have been a
                        carpenter and builder, I think. It would save me money constructing houses
                        for myself.
                    In the suburbs of Cleveland were being built the many comfortable homes of
                        those who could afford this handsome land facing the lake. Hundreds of
                        cottages we passed were done in the newer moods of our American architects,
                        and some of them were quite free of the horrible banalities to which the
                        American country architect seems addicted. There were homes of real taste,
                        with gardens arranged with a sense of their architectural value and trees
                        and shrubs which enhanced their beauty. Here, as I could tell by my nerves,
                        all the ethical and social conventions of the middle class American and the
                        middle West were being practised, or at least preached. Right was as plain
                        as the nose on your face; truth as definite a thing as the box hedges and
                        macadam roads which surrounded them; virtue a chill and even frozen maid. If
                        I had had the implements I would have tacked up a sign reading
                        "Non-conformists beware! Detour south through factory
                        regions."
                    As we drew nearer Cleveland, this same atmosphere continued, only becoming
                        more dense. Houses, instead of being five hundred feet apart and set in
                        impressive and exclusive spaces, were one hundred feet apart or less. They
                        were smartly suburban and ultra-respectable and refined. The most imposing
                        of churches began to appear—I never saw finer—and schools and heavily
                        tree-shaded streets. Presently we ran into Euclid Avenue, an amazingly long
                        and wide street, once Cleveland's pride and the centre of all her
                        wealthy and fashionable life, 
                        
                            WHERE I LEARN THAT I AM NOT TO LIVE EIGHTY YEARS
                        
                         but now threaded by a new double tracked
                        trolley line and fallen on lesser, if not absolutely evil, days. This street
                        was once the home, and still maybe for all I know (his immortal residence
                        was pointed out to us by a policeman), of the sacrosanct John D.
                        Rockefeller. Yes, in his earlier and poorer years, when he was worth only
                        from seventy to eighty millions, he lived here, and the house seemed to me,
                        as I looked at it this morning, actually to reflect all the stodgy
                        conservatism with which he is credited. It was not smart—what rich
                        American's house of forty or fifty years ago ever is?—but it was
                        solid and impressive and cold. Yes, cold is the word,—a large, roomy, silent
                        thing of grey stone, with a wide smooth lawn at least a hundred feet wide
                        spreading before it, and houses of its same character flanking it on either
                        hand. Here lived John D. and plotted, no doubt, and from here he issued to
                        those local religious meetings and church socials for which he is so famous.
                        And no doubt some one or more of the heavy chambers of this house consumed
                        in their spaciousness the soft, smooth words which meant wealth or poverty
                        to many an oil man or competitor or railroad manipulator whose rates were
                        subsequently undermined. For John D. knew how to outplot the best of them.
                        As an American I forgive him for out-plotting the rest of the world. As an
                        individual, well, if he weren't intellectually and artistically so
                        dull I could forgive him everything.
                    "What is this?" I queried of Franklin. "Surely
                        Euclid Avenue isn't being given over to trade, is it? See that drug
                        store there, built in front of an old home—and that garage tacked on to that
                        mansion—impossible!"
                    But so it was. These great old mansions set back in their tremendous spaces
                        of lawn were seeing the very last of their former glory. The business heart
                        of the city was apparently overtaking them, and these car tracks were so new
                        I was uncertain whether they were being put down or taken up.
                    I hailed a policeman.
                    "Are these tracks being removed or put in?"
                    
                    "Put in," he replied. "They've just
                        finished a long fight here. The rich people didn't want it, but the
                        people won. Tom Johnson began fighting for this years ago."
                    Tom Johnson! What an odd sense of the passing of all things the name gave me.
                        Between 1895 and 1910 his name was on nearly everyone's tongue. How
                        he was hated by the growing rich! In the face of the upspringing horde of
                        financial buccaneers of that time—Hanna, Rockefeller, Morgan, Harriman,
                        Ryan—he stood out as a kind of tribune of the people. He had made money in
                        business, and by much the same methods as every other man, taking and
                        keeping, but now he declared himself desirous of seeing something done for
                        the people—of doing something—and so he fought for three cent fares in
                        Cleveland, to be extended, afterwards, everywhere, I suppose.
                    Don't smile, dear reader. I know it sounds like a joke. In the face
                        of the steady settling of all powers and privileges in America in the hands
                        of a powerful oligarchy, the richest and most glittering the world has ever
                        seen, the feeble dreamings of an idealist, and a but slightly equipped one
                        at that, are foolish; but then, there is something poetic about it, just the
                        same, quite as there is about all the other poets and dreamers the world has
                        ever known. We always want to help the mass, we idealists, at
                            first. We look about and see human beings like ourselves,
                        struggling, complaining, dying, pinching along with little or nothing, and
                        our first thought is that some one human being or some group of beings is
                        responsible, that nature has designed all to have plenty, and that all we
                        have to do is to clear away the greed of a few individuals who stand between
                        man and nature, and presto, all is well again. I used to feel that way and
                        do yet, at times. I should hate to think it was all over with America and
                        its lovely morning dreams.
                    And it's fine poetry, whether it will work or not. It fits in with
                        the ideas of all prophets and reformers since the world began. Think of
                        Henry George, that lovely soul, dying in New York in a cheap hotel, fighting
                        the  battle of a labor party—he, the dreamer of
                        "Progress and Poverty." And Doctor (The Reverend Father)
                        McGlynn, declaring that some day we would have an American Pope strolling
                        down Broadway under a silk hat and being thoroughly social and helpful and
                        democratic; and then being excommunicated from the church for it or
                        silenced—which was it? And W. J. Bryan, with his long hair and his perfect
                        voice (that moving, bell-like voice), wishing to solve all the ills of man
                        by sixteen to one—the double standard of gold and silver; and John P.
                        Altgeld, high, clear, dreamy soul, with his blue eyes and his sympathy for
                        the betrayed anarchists and the poor; and "Potato"
                        Pingree, as they used to call him, once governor of Michigan, who wanted all
                        idle land in Detroit and elsewhere turned over to the deserving poor in
                        order that they might grow potatoes or something else on it. And Henry Ford
                        with his "peace ship" and his minimum of five dollars a
                        day for every man, and Hart, Schaffner and Marx with their minimum of two
                        dollars for every little seamstress and poorest floor washer, What does it
                        all mean?
                    I'll tell you.
                    It means a sense of equilibrium, or the disturbance of it. Contrasts remain
                        forever,—vast differences in brain, in heart, in opportunity, in everything;
                        but now and then when the contrasts become too sharp or are too closely
                        juxtaposed, up rises some tender spirit—Isaiah, or Jeremiah, or Christ, or
                        St. Francis, or John Huss, or Savan-arola, or Robert Owen, or John Brown, or
                        Abraham Lincoln, or William Lloyd Garrison, or Walt Whitman, or Lloyd
                        George, or Henry Ford, or John P. Altgeld, or W. J. Bryan—and begins to cry
                        "Ho! Assyrian" or its equivalent. It is wonderful. It is
                        positively beautiful and thrilling, this love of balance and "fair
                        play" in nature. These men are not always thinking of themselves,
                        you may depend on it. It is inherent in the scheme of things, just as are
                        high mountains and deep valleys, but oh, those who have the sense of it—those
                        dreamers and poets and seekers after the ideal!
                    
                    "They can kill my body but not what I stand for."—John Brown.
                    "Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy."—Christ.
                    "Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not
                        charity, I am become as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal."—St. Paul.
                    "Oh, poorest Jesus, the grace I beg of Thee is to bestow on me the
                        grace of the highest poverty."—St. Francis.
                    "I with my barbaric yawp, yawping over the roofs of the
                            world."—Walt Whitman.
                    Are things to be made right by law? I will admit that some wide and sweeping
                        differences can be eliminated. Tyrants can occasionally be pulled down and
                        humanitarians elevated for the time being. Yes, yes. A rough equation can be
                        struck always, and it is something of that of which these men were dreaming.
                        But even so, in the face of all the physical, temperamental, spiritual,
                        intellectual, to say nothing of climatic and planetary differences, what
                        matter? Will law save an idiot or undo a Shelley or a Caesar? Will law pull
                        down the sun and set the moon in its place? My masters, we can only
                        sympathize at times where we cannot possibly act,and we can act and aid
                        where we cannot cure. But of a universal panacea there is only a dream—or so
                        I feel. Yet it is because we can and do dream—and must, at times—and because
                        of our dreams and the fact that they must so often be shattered, that we
                        have art and the joy of this thing called Life. Without contrast there is no
                        life. And without dreams there might not be any alteration in these too
                        sharp contrasts. But where would our dreams be, I ask you—or the need of
                        them—if all of that of which we are compelled to dream and seek in an agony
                        of sweat and despair were present and we did not need to dream? Then
                        what?
                    But let us away with abstrusities. Let us sing over Life as it is. These
                        tall, poetic souls—are they not beautiful? And would you not have it so that
                        they may appear?
                    In riding up this same street I was on familiar ground,  for here, twentytwo years before, in that same raw spring
                        which took me to Buffalo, I stopped, looking for work—and found some, of
                        sorts. I connected myself for a very little while (a week or two) with the
                        Sunday issue of the Plain Dealer and did a few specials,
                        trying to prove to the incumbent of the high office of Sunday editor that I
                        was a remarkable man. He did not see it—or me. He commented once that my work
                        was too lofty in tone, that I loved to rhapsodize too much. I know he was
                        right. Nevertheless, the second city afterwards (Pittsburg), like the others
                        from which I had just come (Toledo, St. Louis, and Chicago), liked me
                        passing well. But my ambition did not run to a permanent position in
                        Cleveland anyhow.
                    Just the same, and what was of interest to me this morning as I rode into
                        Cleveland, was that here, after a most wonderful ramble east from St. Louis,
                        I had arrived, quite as in Buffalo, spiritually very hungry and lorn. As I
                        look back on it now I know that I must have been a very peculiar youth, for
                        nothing I could find or do contented me for so much as an hour. I had
                        achieved a considerable newspaper success in St. Louis, but had dropped it
                        as being meaningless; and because of a silly dream about running a country
                        newspaper (which I shall narrate later) in a town called Grand Rapids, Ohio,
                        I had a chance to take over said country paper, but when I looked it over
                        and pictured to myself what the local life would be, I fled in horror. In
                        Toledo I encountered a poet and an enthusiast, a youth destined to prove one
                        of the most helpful influences in my whole career, with whom I enjoyed a
                        period of intense mental cerebration, yet him I left also, partly because I
                        lacked money and an interesting future there, but more because I felt
                        restless and wanted to see more of the world.
                    One of my principal trials at this time was that I was in love and had left
                        the object of my adoration behind me, and was not sure that I would ever
                        earn enough money to go and fetch her,—so uncertain were my talents and my
                        opportunities in my own eyes.
                    
                    And like Buffalo, which came after Cleveland in my experience, this city
                        seemed dirty and raw and black, but forceful. America was in the furnace
                        stage of its existence. Everything was in the making,fortunes, art, its
                        social and commercial life, everything. The most astonishing thing in it was
                        its rich men, their houses, factories, institutions of commerce and
                        pleasure. Nothing else had occurred. There was nothing to see but business
                        and a few hotels,—one, really—and theatres. I remember looking at a great
                        soldiers' monument (it is still here in the principal square) and
                        wondering why so large a monument. I do not recall that any man of Cleveland
                        particularly distinguished himself in the Civil War.
                    But the one thing that struck me as of greatest import in those days was
                        Euclid Avenue with its large houses and lawns which are now so close to the
                        business heart, and its rich men, John Dr Rockefeller and Mark Hanna and
                        Henry M. Flagler and Tom Johnson. Rockefeller had just given millions and
                        millions to revivify the almost defunct University of Chicago, then a small
                        Baptist College, to say nothing of being hailed (newly then) as the richest
                        man in America. All of these people were living here in Euclid Avenue, and I
                        looked up their houses and all the other places of interest, envying the
                        rich and wishing that I was famous or a member of a wealthy family, and that
                        I might meet some one of the beautiful girls I imagined I saw here and have
                        her fall in love with me.
                    Tra, la! Tra, la! There's nothing like being a passionate, romantic
                        dunce if you want to taste this wine of wizardry which is life. I was and I
                        did. . .
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    THE FLAT LANDS OF OHIO
                    BUT now Cleveland by no means moved me as it once had. Not
                        that there was anything wrong with Cleveland. The change was in me, no
                        doubt—a septicæmia which makes things look different in middle life. We
                        breakfasted at a rather attractive looking restaurant which graced a very
                        lively outlying corner, where a most stately and perfect featured young
                        woman cashier claimed our almost undivided attention. (Hail, Eros!) And then
                        we sped on to the Hollenden, an hotel which I recalled as being the best in
                        my day, to consult the Cleveland Automobile Club as to the condition of the
                        roads west.
                    Sitting before this hotel in our car, under a grey sky and with the wind
                        whipping about rather chilly for an August morning, I was reminded of other
                        days spent in this same hotel, not as a guest but as a youthful chair warmer
                        between such hours as I was not working on the Cleveland Plain
                            Dealer or walking the streets of the city, or sleeping in the very
                        dull room I had engaged in a very dingy and smoky looking old house. Why
                        didn't I get a better place? Well, my uncertainty as to whether I
                        should long remain in Cleveland was very great. This house was convenient to
                        the business heart, the rooms were clean, and from the several windows on
                        the second floor I could see a wide sweep of the lake, with its white caps
                        and gulls and ships, and closer at hand the imposing buildings of the city.
                        It was a great spectacle, and I was somewhat of a recluse and fonder of
                        spectacles than I was of people.
                    But the Hollenden, which was then the principal hotel of the city and centre
                        of all the extravagant transient life of the time, appealed to me as a
                        convenient method  of obtaining comfort of
                        sorts without any expense. Newspaper men have a habit of making themselves
                        at home almost anywhere. Their kaleidoscopic contact with the rough facts of
                        life, and their commercial compulsion to go, do, see, under all
                        circumstances and at all hours, soon robs them of that nervous fear or awe
                        which possesses less sophisticated souls. When you are sent in the morning
                        to attend a wedding or a fire,, at noon to interview a celebrity or describe
                        a trial, and at night to report an explosion, a political meeting or a
                        murder, you soon lose all that sense of unwelcomed intrusion which restrains
                        the average citizen. Celebrities become mere people. Gorgeous functions melt
                        into commonplace affairs, no better than any other function that has been or
                        will be again; an hotel like this is little more than a mere lounging place
                        to the itinerant scribe, to the comforts of which as a representative of the
                        press he is entitled.
                    If not awe or mystery, then certainly nervous anticipation attaches to the
                        movements and personality of nearly all reporters. At least it does in my
                        case. To this day, though I have been one in my time, I stand in fear of
                        them. I never know what to expect, what scarifying question they are going
                        to hurtle at me, or what cold, examining eyes are going to strip me to the
                        bone—eyes that represent brains so shrewd and merciless that one wonders why
                        they do not startle the world long before they usually do.
                    In those days this hotel was the most luxurious in Cleveland, and here,
                        between hours, because it was cold and I was lonely, I came to sit and stare
                        out at all the passing throng, vigorous and active enough to entertain
                        anyone. It was a brisk life that Cleveland presented, and young. The great
                        question with me always was, how did people come to be, in the first place?
                        What were the underlying laws of our being? How did it come that human
                        beings could separate themselves from cosmic solidarity and navigate alone?
                        Why did we all have much the same tastes, appetites, desires? Why should two
                        billion people on earth have two feet, two eyes, two hands? The fact  that Darwin had already set forward his facts
                        as to evolution did not clear things up for me at all. I wanted to know who
                        started the thing evolving, and why. And so I loved to sit about in places
                        like this where I could see people and think about it.
                    Incidentally I wanted to think about government and the growth of cities and
                        the value and charm of different professions, and whether my own somewhat
                        enforced profession (since I had no cunning, apparently, for anything else)
                        was to be of any value to me. I was just at the age when the enjoyment of my
                        life and strength seemed the most important thing in the world. I wanted to
                        live, to have money, to be somebody, to meet and enjoy the companionship of
                        interesting and well placed people, to seem to be better than I was. While I
                        by no means condemned those above or beneath, nor ignored the claims of any
                        individual or element to fair and courteous treatment, still, materialist
                        that I was, I wanted to share on equal terms with the best, in all the more
                        and most exclusive doings and beings. The fact that the world (in part) was
                        busy about feasts and pleasures, that there were drawingrooms lighted for
                        receptions, dining-rooms for dinner, ballrooms for dancing, and that I was
                        nowhere included, was an aching thorn. I used to stroll about where theatres
                        were just receiving their influx of evening patrons or where some function
                        of note was being held, and stare with avid eyes at the preparations. I felt
                        lone and lorn. A rather weak and profitless tendency, say you? Quite so; I
                        admit it. It interests me now quite as much as it possibly could you. I am
                        now writing of myself not as I am, but as I was.
                    We gained the information that the best road to Fort Wayne was not via the
                        lake shore, as we wished, but through a town called Elyria and Vermilion,
                        and so on through various Ohio towns to the Indiana line. I did not favor
                        that at all. I argued that we should go by the lake anyhow, but somehow we
                        started for Elyria—or "Delirious," as we called it.
                    
                    In leaving Cleveland I urged Franklin to visit the region where originally
                        stood the house in which I had stopped, and to my surprise I found the place
                        entirely done over—cleared of all the old tracks, houses and docks which,
                        from the formal point of view, once marred the waterfront. In their stead
                        were several stately municipal buildings facing the wide bosom of the lake
                        and surrounded by great spaces of smooth grass. It was very imposing. So the
                        spot I had chosen as most interesting to me had become the civic centre of
                        the city! This flattered me not a little.
                    But Elyria and Vermilion—what about them?
                    Nothing. Just Ohio towns.
                    At Elyria we found a stream which had been diverted and made to run a turbine
                        engine in order that the town might have light; but it was discovered
                        afterward that there wasn't enough water power after all to supply
                        the town, and so extra light had to be bought and paid for. The works were
                        very picturesque—a deep, craggy cave, at the bottom of which was the turbine
                        engine room, cut out of the solid rock apparently, the water pouring down
                        through it. I thought what a delightful place it was for the town boys to
                        play!
                    But this inland country was really too dreary. All the uncomfortable
                        experiences of my early youth began to come back as I viewed these small
                        cottages set in endless spaces of flat land, with nothing but scrubby trees,
                        wire fences and occasionally desolately small and bare white churches to
                        vary the landscape. "What a life!" I kept saying to
                        myself. "What a life!" And I still say it, "What
                        a life!" It would require endless friends to make such a landscape
                        endurable.
                    Before reaching the lake again, we traversed about twenty miles of a region
                        that seemed to me must be devoted to the chicken raising business, we saw so
                        many of them. In one place we encountered a huge natural amphitheatre or
                        depression which could easily have been turned into a large lake—the same
                        hollowed out by a stream known as the Vermilion River. In another we came to
                             a fine threshing scene with all the
                        implements for the work in full motion—a scene so attractive that we stopped
                        and loafed a while, inquiring as to the rewards of farming in this region.
                        In still another place we passed a small river pleasure ground, a boating
                        and bathing place which was probably patronized by the villagers hereabout.
                        It suggested all sorts of sweet, simple summer romances.
                    Then Vermilion came into view with a Chautauqua meeting announced as
                        "coming soon," and a cove with a lighthouse and pretty
                        launches and sailboats at anchor. Speed announced that if we were going to
                        idle here, as usual, he would stop at the first garage and get oil and
                        effect certain repairs, and there we left him, happy at his task, his body
                        under the machine, while we walked on into the heart of the village. It
                        being noontime, the hope of finding a restaurant lured us, as well as that
                        possibility of seeing something different and interesting which the sight of
                        every new town held out, at least to me. Here we had lunch then, and quite a
                        good one too, with a piece of cherry pie thrown in for good measure, if you
                        please, and then because the restaurant was conducted by a Japanese by the
                        name of B. Kagi, and because the girl who waited on us looked like an
                        Americanized product of the Flowery Kingdom, I asked her if she was
                        Japanese.
                    I never got a blacker look in my life. For a moment her dark eyes seemed to
                        shoot sparks. Her whole demeanor, which hitherto had been pleasant and
                        helpful, changed to one of deadly opposition. "Certainly
                        not," she replied with a sting in her voice, and I saw clearly that
                        I had made a most painful faux pas. I felt called upon to
                        explain or apologize to Franklin, who heard and saw it all. He was most
                        helpful.
                    "I suppose," he commented, "in these small middle
                        West towns it is declassé to be Japanese. They
                        don't discriminate much between Japanese and Chinese. To suggest
                        anything like that probably hurts her feelings dreadfully.  If people here discover it, it lowers her in
                        their eyes, or that is what she thinks."
                    "But she looks Japanese to you, doesn't she?" I
                        queried, humbly.
                    "Not very, no."
                    I looked again and it semed very obvious. Back in the kitchen was
                        occasionally visible B. Kagi, and it seemed to me even then that the girl
                        looked like him. However, the air was so frigid from then on that I scarcely
                        enjoyed my meal. And to confound me, as it were, several townspeople came in
                        and my supposedly purely Japanese maid talked in the normal middle West
                        fashion, even to a kind of a nasal intonation which we all have. Obviously
                        she was American born and raised in this region. "But why the
                        likeness?" I kept saying to myself in my worst and most suspicious
                        manner. And then I began to build up a kind of fictional background for her,
                        with this B. Kagi as her real, but for reasons of policy, concealed father,
                        and so on and so forth, until I had quite a short story in mind. But I
                        don't suppose I'll ever come to the pleasure of writing
                        it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    OSTEND PURGED OF SIN
                    AT Vermilion the sun suddenly burst forth once more, clear
                        and warm from a blanket of grey, and the whole world looked different and
                        much more alluring. Speed arrived with the car just when we had finished
                        luncheon, and we had the pleasure of sitting outside and feeling thoroughly
                        warm and gay while he ate. Betimes Franklin commented on the probable
                        character of the life in a community like this. He was of the conviction
                        that it never rose above a certain dead level of mediocrity—however charming
                        and grateful the same might be as life—and that all the ideas of all
                        concerned ran to simple duties and in grooves of amusing, if not deadly
                        prejudice; which was entirely satisfactory, so long as they did not
                        interfere with or destroy your life. He was convinced that
                        there was this narrow, solemn prejudice which made all life a sham, or a
                        kind of rural show piece, in which all played a prescribed part, some
                        thinking one thing, perhaps, and secretly conforming to it as much as
                        possible, while publicly professing another and conforming to that,
                        publicly, or, as is the case with the majority, actually believing in and
                        conforming to life as they found it here. I know there were many such in the
                        home communities in which I was brought up. Franklin was not one to charge
                        general and widespread hypocrisy, as do some, but rather to sympathize with
                        and appreciate the simple beliefs, tastes, and appetites of all
                        concerned.
                    "Now take those four town loafers sitting over there on that bin in
                        front of that store," he commented, apropos of four old cronies who
                        had come out to sun themselves. "They haven't a single
                        thing in their minds above petty  little
                        humors which do not seriously affect anyone but themselves. They sit and
                        comment and jest and talk about people in the town who are doing things,
                        quite as four ducks might quack. They haven't a single thing to do,
                        not an important ambition. Crime of any kind is nearly beyond
                        then."
                    Just then a boy came by crying a Cleveland afternoon paper. He was calling,
                        "All about the lynching of Leo Frank." This was a young
                        Jew who had been arrested in Atlanta, Georgia, some months before, charged
                        with the very disturbing crime of attempted rape and subsequent murder, the
                        victim being a pretty working girl in a factory of which the murderer,
                        socalled, was foreman or superintendent. The trick by which the crime was
                        supposed to have been accomplished, as it was charged, was that of causing
                        the girl to stay after work and then, when alone, attempting to seduce or
                        force her. In this instance a struggle seems to have ensued. The girl may
                        have fallen and crushed her head against a table, or she may have been
                        struck on the head. The man arrested denied vigorously that he had anything
                        to do with it. He attempted, I believe, to throw the blame on a negro
                        janitor, or, if not that, he did nothing to aid in clearing him of
                        suspicion. And there is the bare possibility that the negro did commit the
                        crime, though personally I doubted it. When, upon trial, Frank's
                        conviction of murder in the first degree followed, a great uproar ensued,
                        Jews and other citizens in all parts of the country protested and
                        contributed money for a new trial. The case was appealed to the supreme
                        court, but without result. Local or state sentiment was too strong. It was
                        charged by the friends of the condemned man that the trial had been grossly
                        unfair, and that Southern opposition to all manner of sex offenses was so
                        abnormal and peculiar, having a curious relationship to the inversion of the
                        psychoanalyst, that no fair trial could be expected in that section.
                        Personally, I had felt that the man should have been tried elsewhere because
                        of this very sectional characteristic, which I had noticed myself.
                    
                    It had been charged that a southern mob overawed the jury in the very court
                        room in which the case had been conducted, that the act of rape had never
                        really been proved, that the death had really been accidental as described,
                        that the very suspicious circumstance of the body being found in the cellar
                        was due to fear on the part of the murderer, whoever he was, of being found
                        out, and that the girl had not been brutally slain at all. Nevertheless,
                        when the reigning governor, whose term was about to expire, commuted the
                        sentence from death to life imprisonment, he had to leave the state under
                        armed protection, and a few weeks later the criminal, if he was one, was set
                        upon by a fellow convict in the penitentiary at Atlanta and his throat cut.
                        It was assumed that the convict was employed by the element inimical to
                        Frank at the trial. A little later, while he was still in the hospital,
                        practically dying from this wound, Frank was taken out by a lynching party,
                        taken to the small home town of the girl, Marietta, Georgia, and there
                        lynched. It was this latest development which was being hawked about by the
                        small newsboy at Vermilion.
                    Personally, as I say, I had the feeling that Frank had been unjustly dealt
                        with. This seemed another exhibition of that blood lust of the South which
                        produces feuds, duels, lynchings and burning at the stake even to this day
                        and which I invariably relate to the enforced suppression of very natural
                        desires in another direction. Southerners are usually so avid of women and
                        so loud in their assertions that they are not. I have no opposition to
                        Southerners as such. In many respects they are an interesting and charming
                        people, courteous, hospitable, a little inclined to over-emphasis of
                        gallantry and chivalry and their alleged moral purity, but otherwise
                        interesting. But this sort of thing always strikes me as a definite
                        indictment of the real native sense of the people. Have they brains, poise,
                        judgment? Why, then, indulge in the antics and furies of children and
                        savages?
                    I raged at the South for its narrowness and inefficiency and ignorance.
                        Franklin, stung by the crime, no doubt, 
                        agreed with me. He told me of being in a quick lunch room in New York one
                        day when a young Southerner entered and found a negro in the place, eating.
                        Now as everyone knows, this is a commonplace. I, often, have sat next to a
                        negro and eaten in peace and comfort. But according to Franklin, the first
                        impulse of this Southerner was to make a scene and stir up as much prejudice
                        as possible, beginning, as usual, with "What the hell is a damned
                        negro doing in here, anyhow?"
                    "He looked about for sympathy," said Franklin,
                        "but no one paid the slightest attention to him. Then he began
                        pushing his chair about irritably and swaggering, but still no one heeded
                        him. Finally, reducing his voice to a grumble, he went quietly and secured
                        his sandwich, his coffee and his pie, like any other downtrodden
                        American."
                    "But what a blow it must have been to him to find himself swamped by
                        a sea of indifference!" I said—"not a soul to share his
                        views!"
                    "It is that sort of thing that makes the South a jest to
                        me," continued Franklin. "I can't stand
                        it."
                    His face was quite sour, much more so than I had seen it on any other
                        occasion on this tour.
                    "Oh, well," I said, "those things adjust
                        themselves in the long run. Frank is dead, but who knows, lynching may be
                        killed by this act. The whole North and West is grieved by this. They will
                        take it out of the South in contempt and money. Brutality must pay for
                        itself like a stone flung in the water, if no more than by rings of water.
                        The South cannot go on forever doing this sort of thing."
                    After we had raged sufficiently we rode on, for by now Speed had finished his
                        lunch. Here, following that lake road I have mentioned, we were in an ideal
                        realm for a time again, free of all the dreary monotony of the land farther
                        south. The sun shone, the wind blew, and we forgot all about Frank and
                        careened along the shore looking at the tumbling waves. Once we climbed down
                        a steep bank and stood on the shore, expatiating on how 
                        
                            CEDAR POINT LAKE ERIE A Norse Sky
                        
                         fine it all was. Another time we got off to
                        pick a few apples ready to our hand. There were many detours and we passed a
                        fair sized town called Huron, basking in a blaze of afternoon light, but for
                        once not stopping because it lay a little to the right of our road to
                        Sandusky. In another hour we were entering the latter place, a clean, smooth
                        paved city of brick and frame cottages, with women reading or sewing on
                        doorsteps and porches, and a sense of American solidarity and belief in all
                        the virtues hovering over it all.
                    I never knew until I reached there and beheld it with my own eyes that
                        Sandusky has near it one of the finest fresh water beaches in the world—and I
                        have seen beaches and beaches and beaches, from those at Monte Carlo, Nice
                        and Mentone to those that lie between Portland, Maine, and New Brunswick,
                        Georgia. It is called Cedar Point, and is not much more than twenty minutes
                        from the pier at the foot of Columbus Avenue, in the heart of the city—if you
                        go by boat. They have not been enterprising enough as yet to provide a ferry
                        for automobiles. Once you get there by a very roundabout trip of twelve
                        miles, you can ride for seven miles along a cement road which parallels
                        exactly the white sand of the beach and allows you to enjoy the cool lake
                        winds and even the spray of the waves when the wind is high. It is backed by
                        marsh land, some of which has been drained and is now offered as an ideal
                        and exclusive residence park.
                    But the trip was worth the long twelve miles—splendidly worth it—once we had
                        made up our minds to return there,—for coming we had passed it without
                        knowing it. What induced us to go was a number of picture cards we saw in
                        the principal department store here, showing Cedar Point Beach in a storm,
                        Cedar Point Beach crowded with thousands of bathers, Cedar Point Beach Pier
                        accommodating three or four steamers at once, and so forth, all very gay and
                        summery and all seeming to indicate a world of Monte Carloesque
                        proportions.
                    
                    As a matter of fact, it was nothing like Monte Carlo or any other beach,
                        except for its physical beauty as a sea beach, for how could a watering
                        place on a lake in Ohio have any of the features of a cosmopolitan ocean
                        resort? In spite of the fact that it boasted two very large hotels, a
                        literally enormous casino and bathing pavilion, and various forms of
                        amusement pavilions, it was without the privilege of selling a drop of
                        intoxicants, and its patrons, to the number of thousands, were anything but
                        smart—just plain, Middle West family people.
                    What'll we do with the Middle West and the South? Are they gradually
                        and unconsciously sinking into the demnition doldrums? Suppose our largest
                        soap factories, our largest reaper works, and our largest chewing gum
                        emporiums are out there—what of it? It doesn't help much to amass
                        large fortunes making routine things that merely increase the multitude who
                        then sit back and do dull, routine things. Life was intended for the
                        spectacular, I take it. It was intended to sting and hurt so that songs and
                        dreams might come forth. When it becomes mere plethora and fixity, it is
                        nothing—a stultifying world. When a great crisis comes—as come it surely will
                        at some time or other—if people have just eaten and played and not dreamed
                        vastly and beautifully, they are as chaff blown by the wind or burned in the
                        oven. They do not even make a good spectacle. They are just pushed aside,
                        destroyed, forgotten.
                    But this resort was so splendid in its natural aspects I could not help
                        contrasting its material use by these middle westerners with what would have
                        been the case if it were situate say in the South of France, or on the
                        shores of Holland or Belgium. Anyone who has visited Scheveningen or Ostend,
                        or Nice or Cannes, need scarcely be told there is a certain smartness not
                        even suggested by the best of our American resorts. Contrasted even with
                        these latter, this island place was lower in the scale. (I presume the
                        Christian Middle West would say it was higher.) We motored out there
                        positively thrilled by a halcyon evening in which a blood red sun, aided by
                        tattered,  wind whipped clouds, combined to
                        give the day's close a fabled, almost Norse aspect. The long beach
                        was so beautiful that it evoked exclamations of surprise and delight. Think
                        of being able to tear along for seven miles and more, the open water to your
                        right, a weird, grass grown marsh world dotted with tall, gaunt trees to
                        your left, this splendid cloud world above, turgid with red and pink, and a
                        perfect road to ride on! We tore. But when we reached the extreme point of
                        land known as Cedar Point, and devoted, as I have said, to the more definite
                        entertainment of the stranger, things were very different. The exterior of
                        all that I saw was quite charming, but imagine an immense casino devoted to
                        tables for people who bring their own lunch or dinner and merely want to buy
                        coffee or milk or soda!!—No beer sold here, if you please. A perfectly
                        legitimate and laudable atmosphere, say you? Quite so, only—
                    And then the large hotels! We looked at them. The prices of the best one
                        ranged from two to four dollars a day; the other from one to two! ! ! Shades
                        of Atlantic City and Long Beach!—And remember that these were well built,
                        well equipped hotels. The beach pavilions were attractive, but the crowd was
                        of a simple, inexperienced character. I am not sniffing. Did I not praise
                        Geneva Beach? I did. And before I left here I was fond of this place and
                        would not have changed it in any least detail. I would not have even these
                        mid-westerners different, in spite of anything I may have said. They seem to
                        know that Sunday School meetings are important and that one must succeed in
                        business in some very small way; but even so, they are a vivacious, hopeful
                        crew, and as such deserving of all praise.
                    Franklin and I walked about talking about them and contrasting them with the
                        East. Our conclusion was that the East is more schooled in vice and
                        sensuality, and show and luxury, perhaps, and that these people were sweet
                        and amusing and all right—here. We found a girl tending a cigar counter in
                        the principal casino—a very angular, not too attractive creature, but not
                        homely either, and  decidedly vivacious. I
                        could not help contrasting her with the maidens who wait on you at telephone
                        booths and stands generally in New York, and who fix you with an icy stare
                        and, at telephone booths, inquire, "Numbah, please?" She
                        was quite set up, in a pleasantly human way, by the fact that she was in
                        charge of a cigar stand in so vivacious a world, and communicated her
                        thoughts to us with the greatest pleasure and fluency.
                    "Do you have many people here every day?" I asked, thinking
                        that because I had seen three excursion steamers lying at anchor at the foot
                        of the principal street in Sandusky it might merely be overrun by holiday
                        crowds occasionally.
                    "Indeed, yes," she replied briskly. "The two big
                        hotels here are always full, and on the coldest days we have four or five
                        hundred in bathing. Haven't you been here in the day time yet?
                        Well, ya just ought to be here when it's very hot and the sun is
                        bright. Crowds! Course, I haven't been to Atlantic City or any of
                        them swell eastern places, but people that have tell me that this is one of
                        the finest beaches anywhere. Style! You just oughta see. And the crowds! The
                        bathing pavilions are packed, and the board walk. There are thousands of
                        people here."
                    "I suppose, then, this casino fills up completely?" I said,
                        looking round and seeing a few empty tables here and there.
                    It had evidently been raining the day before, and even early this morning,
                        for it was pleasantly cool tonight and this seemed to have kept away some
                        people.
                    "Well, you just oughta see it on a real hot night, if you
                        don't think we have crowds here. Full! Why people stand around and
                        wait. It's wonderful!"
                    "Indeed? And is there much money spent here?"
                    "Well, I suppose as much as anywhere. I don't know about
                        them big resorts in the East, but there's enough money spent here.
                        Goodness! People come and take whole soots of rooms at these big hotels. You
                        see some mighty rich people here."
                    
                    Franklin and I availed ourselves of the cafeteria system of this place to
                        serve ourselves and be in the life. We walked along the beach looking at the
                        lights come out on the hotel verandas and in the pavilions and under the
                        trees. We walked under these same trees and watched the lovers courting, and
                        noted the old urge of youth and blood on every hand. There was dancing in
                        one place, and at a long pier reaching out into the bay on the landward
                        side, a large ferry steamer was unloading hundreds more. Finally at ten
                        o'clock we returned Sanduskyward, listening to the splash of the
                        waves on the shore, and observing the curious cloud formations which hung
                        overhead, interspersed with stars. In them once I saw a Russian moujik's head with the fur cap pulled low over the
                        ears—that immemorial cap worn by the Assyrians and Chaldeans. Again I saw an
                        old hag pursuing a wisp of cloud that looked like a fleeing hare, and then
                        two horsemen riding side by side in the sky. Again I saw a whale and a stag,
                        and finally a great hand, its fingers outspread—a hand that seemed to be
                        reaching up helplessly and as if for aid.
                    The night was so fine that I would have counseled riding onward toward Fort
                        Wayne, but when we reached Sandusky again and saw its pleasant streets and a
                        clean-looking hotel, we concluded that we would stay by the ills we knew
                        rather than to fly toward others that we knew not of.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    WHEN HOPE HOPPED HIGH
                    IT is Anatole France, I think, who says somewhere that
                        "robbery is to be condoned; the result of robbery
                        respected." Even so, listen to this story. We came into this hotel
                        at eleven P. M. or thereabouts. Franklin, who is good at bargaining, or
                        thinks he is, sallied up to the desk and asked for two rooms with bath, and
                        an arrangement whereby our chauffeur could be entertained for lessthe
                        custom. There was a convention of some kind in town—traveling salesmen in
                        certain lines, I believe—and all but one room in this hotel, according to the
                        clerk, was taken. However, it was a large room—very, he said, with three beds
                        and a good bath. Would we take that? If so, we could have it, without
                        breakfast, of course, for three dollars.
                    "Done," said Franklin, putting all three names on the
                        registry.
                    It was a good room large and clean, with porcelain bath of good size. We
                        arose fairly early and breakfasted on the usual hotel breakfast. I made the
                        painful mistake of being betrayed by the legend "pan fish and fried
                        mush" from taking ham and eggs.
                    After our breakfast we came downstairs prepared to pay and depart, when, in a
                        polite voice—oh, very suave—the day clerk, a different one from him of the
                        night—announced to Franklin, who was at the window, "Seven-fifty,
                        please."
                    "How do you make that out?" inquired Franklin, taken
                        aback.
                    "Three people in one room at three dollars a day each (two dollars
                        each for the night)—six dollars. Breakfast, fifty cents each, extra—one-fifty.
                        Total, seven-fifty."
                    
                    "But I thought you said this room was three for the night for
                        three?"
                    "Oh, no—three dollars each per day. Two dollars each for the night.
                        We always let it that way."
                    "Oh, I see," said Franklin, curiously. "You know
                        what the night clerk said to me, do you?"
                    "I know the regular rate we charge for this room."
                    For the fraction of a moment Franklin hesitated, then laid down a ten dollar
                        bill.
                    "Why do you do that, Franklin?" I protested. "It
                        isn't fair. I wouldn't. Let's see the
                        manager."
                    "Oh, well," he half whispered in weariness. "What
                        can you do about it? They have you at their mercy."
                    In the meantime, the clerk had slipped the bill in the drawer and handed back
                        two-fifty in change.
                    "But, Franklin," I exclaimed, "this is an outrage.
                        This man doesn't know anything about it, or if he does,
                        he's swindling. Why doesn't he get the manager here if
                        he's on the level?"
                    This gentle clerk merely smiled at me. He had a comfortable, even cynical,
                        grin on his face, which enraged me all the more.
                    "You know what you are?" I asked him asudden.
                    "You're a damned, third rate fakir and swindler! You know
                        you're lying when you say that room rents for three per person when
                        three occupy it. That's nine dollars a day for a room in an hotel
                        that gets two or three dollars at the outside."
                    He smiled, unperturbed, and then turned to wait on other people.
                    I raged and swore. I called him a few more names, but it never disturbed him
                        the least. I demanded to see the mythical manager—but he remained mythical.
                        Franklin, shocked, went off to get a cigar, and then helped Speed carry out
                        the bags, porters being scarce. Meanwhile, I hung around hoping that glaring
                        and offering to fight would produce some result. Not at all. Do you think I
                        got back our three dollars, or that I ever saw the manager? Never. The car
                        was ready. Franklin was waiting.  He looked at
                        me as much as to say, "Well, you do love to
                        fight, don't you?" Finally I submitted to the inevitable,
                        and, considerably crestfallen, clambered into the car, while Franklin
                        uttered various soothing comments about the futility of attempting to cope
                        with scoundrels en route. What was a dollar or two, more or less? But as we
                        rode out of Sandusky I saw myself (1) beating the hotel clerk to death, (2)
                        tearing the hotel down and throwing it into the lake, (3) killing the
                        manager and all the clerks and help, (4) marching a triumphant army against
                        the city at some future time, and razing it to the last stone.
                    "I would show them, by George! I would fix them!"
                    "Aren't the clouds fine this morning?" observed
                        Franklin, looking up at the sky, as we rolled out of the city. "See
                        that fine patch of woods over there. Now that we're getting near
                        the Indiana line the scenery is beginning to improve a little,
                        don't you think?"
                    We were in a more fertile land, I thought—smoother, more prosperous. The
                        houses looked a little better, more rural and homey.
                    "Yes, I think so," I grumbled.
                    "And that's the lake off there. Isn't the wind
                        fresh and fine?"
                    It was.
                    In a little while he was telling me of some Quakers who inhabited a Quaker
                        community just north of his home town, and how one of them said to another
                        once, in a fit of anger:
                    "Wilbur, thee knows I can lick thee, the best day thee ever
                        lived."
                    The idea of two Quakers fighting cheered me. I felt much better.
                    But now tell me—don't you think I ought to destroy Sandusky anyhow,
                        as a warning?
                    After we left Sandusky I began to feel at home again, for somehow this
                        territory southwest was more like Indiana than any we had seen—smooth and
                        placid and  fertile—it was a homelike land. We
                        scudded through a place called Clyde, hung madly with hundreds of little
                        blue and white triangular banners announcing that a Chautauqua was to be
                        held here within a few days—one of those simple, country life Chautauquas
                        which do so much, apparently, to enliven this mid-western world. And then we
                        came to a place called Fremont, which had once had the honor of being the
                        home and death place (if not birthplace) of the Hon. Rutherford B. Hayes,
                        once President of the United States by accident—the man who stole the office
                        from Samuel J. Tilden, who was elected. A queer honor—but dishonor is as good
                        as honor any day for ensuring one a place in the memory of posterity.
                    And after that we drove through places called Wood-side and Pemberton and
                        Portage—you know the size—only in these towns, by now, I was seeing exact
                        duplicates of men I had known in my earliest days. Thus at Woodside where we
                        asked our way to Pemberton and Bowling Green, Ohio, the man who leaned
                        against our car was an exact duplicate of a man I had known in Sullivan,
                        over thirty years before, who used to drive a delivery wagon, and the
                        gentleman he was driving (a local merchant of some import, I took it) was
                        exactly like old Leonard B. Welles, who used to run one of the four or five
                        successful grocery stores in Warsaw. He had a short, pointed, and yet full
                        beard, with steely blue eyes and a straight, thin-lipped mouth—but not an
                        unkindly expression about them. I began to think of the days when I used to
                        wait for old Mr. Welles to serve me.
                    Later we came to a river called Portage, yellow and placid and flowing
                        between winding banks that separated fields of hay from fields of grain; and
                        then we began to draw near to a territory with which I had been exceedingly
                        familiar twenty years before—so much so that it remains as fresh as though it
                        had been yesterday.
                    You must know, because I propose to tell you, that in the fair city of St.
                        Louis, at the age of twentytwo, I was fairly prosperous as a working
                        newspaper man's prosperity goes, and in a position to get or make
                        or even keep  a place not only for myself but
                        for various others—such friends, for instance, as I chose to aid. I do not
                        record this boastfully. I was a harum scarm youth, who was fairly well liked
                        by his elders, but with no least faculty, apparently, of taking care of his
                        own interests. From Chicago one of those fine days blew a young newspaper
                        man whom I had known and liked up there. He was not a very good newspaper
                        man, humdrum and good natured, but a veritable satellite of mine. He wanted
                        me to get him a place and I did. Then be wanted counsel as to whether he
                        should get married, and I aided and abetted him in that. Then he lost his
                        job through his inability to imagine something properly one night, and I had
                        to get him another one. Then he began to dream of running a country paper
                        with me as a fellow aspirer to rural honors and emoluments, and if you will
                        believe me, so rackbrained was I, and so restless and uncertain as to my
                        proper future, that I listened to him with willing ears. Yes, I had some
                        vague, impossible idea of being first State Assemblyman Dreiser of some
                        rural region, and then, perchance, State Senator Dreiser, and then
                        Congressman Dreiser, or Governor Dreiser, if you please, and all at once,
                        owing to my amazing facility and savoir faire, and my
                        clear understanding of the rights, privileges, duties and emoluments of
                        private citizens, and of public officers, and because of my deep and abiding
                        interest in the welfare of the nation—President Dreiser—the distinguished son
                        of the state of Indiana, or Ohio, or Michigan, or wherever I happened to
                        bestow myself.
                    I had only one hundred and fifty dollars all told in the world at the time—but
                        somehow money didn't seem so very important. Perhaps that was why I
                        listened to him. Anyhow, he hailed from this northern section of Ohio. His
                        father lived just outside of the village of Grand Rapids (Ohio, not
                        Michigan), and between there and a town called Bowling Green, which we were
                        now approaching, lay the region which we were to improve with our efforts
                        and presence.
                    Looking at the country now, and remembering it as it  was then, I could see little, if any, change. Oh, yes—one. At
                        that time it was dotted on every hand with tall skeleton derricks for
                        driving oil wells. The farming world was crazy about oil wells, believing
                        them to be the open sesame to a world of luxury and every blessed thing
                        which they happened to desire. And every man who owned so much as a foot of
                        land was sinking an oil well on it. The spectacle which I beheld when I
                        first ventured into this region was one to stir the soul of avarice, if not
                        of oil. As far as the eye could see, the still wintry fields were dotted
                        with these gaunt structures standing up naked and cold—a more or less
                        unsatisfactory sight. I remember asking myself rather ruefully why it was
                        that I couldn't own an oil well and be happy. Now when I entered
                        this region again all these derricks had disappeared, giving place to small
                        dummy engines, or some automatic arrangement lying close to the ground, and
                        controlled from afar, by which the oil pumping was done. These engines were
                        very dirty, but fortunately inconspicuous. And apparently nearly all the
                        wells which I had seen being dug in 1893 had proved successful. In every
                        field was at least one of these pumping devices, and sometimes two and
                        three, all in active working order. They looked odd in fields of corn and
                        wheat. But where were the palaces of great beauty which the farmers of 1893
                        expected if they struck oil? I saw none; merely many fairly comfortable, and
                        I trust happy, homes.
                    But to return to my venture into this region. The most disturbing thing about
                        it, as I look back on it now, is that it shows me how nebulous and
                        impractical I was at that time. Clearly I had had a sharp desire to be rich
                        and famous, without any understanding of how to achieve these terms of
                        comfort. On the other hand, I had the true spirit of adventure, else I would
                        never have dropped so comfortable a berth as I had, where I was well liked,
                        to come up here where I knew nothing of what the future held in store. Great
                        dreams invariably shoot past the possibilities of life.
                    Those cold, snowy, silent streets, those small bleak  homes, shut in from the February or March cold, with all the
                        force of their country life centered around the parlor stove! H—, my fellow
                        adventurer, had preceded me, occupying with his wife a comfortable portion
                        of his father's home, and it was he who met me at the train. He
                        could live here comfortably and indefinitely, and think nothing of it. He
                        was home. After a single day's investigation, I now saw that there
                        was nothing to his proposition as far as I or Grand Rapids was concerned—not
                        a thing. The paper which he had outlined to me as having a working
                        circulation of sixteen hundred and advertising to the value of a thousand or
                        more had really nothing at all. The county, which had only perhaps 10,000
                        population, had already more papers than it could support. The last editor
                        had decamped, leaving a novice who worked for the leading druggist, owner of
                        the printing press and other materials of construction, to potter about,
                        endeavoring to explain what was useless to explain. And I had thrown up a
                        good position to pursue a chimera.
                    But in spite of this, H— wished to see all the leading citizens to discover
                        what encouragement they would offer to two aspiring souls like ourselves! I
                        can see them yet—one a tall, bony man of a ministerial cast of countenance.
                        He was the druggist, and by the same token one of several doctors living
                        here. There was a short, fat, fussy man, who ran the principal feed and
                        livery stable. He had advertised occasionally in other days. Then there were
                        the local banker and four or five others, all of them meager, unimportant
                        intellects.
                    They looked us over as if we were adventurers from Mars. They
                        weren't sure whether they needed a newspaper here or not. I agree
                        now that they did not. They talked about small advertisements which they
                        might or might not run, but which they were certain had never paid when they
                        did—advertisements which they had placed as a favor to the former editor or
                        editors. In addition, they wanted assurances as to how the paper would be
                        run and whether we were good, moral boys and 
                        whether we would work hard for the interests of the town and against certain
                        unsatisfactory elements. It was amazing. Oh, yes, the paper had to be
                        Republican in politics.
                    "No, no, no," I finally said to H—, in a spirit of
                        dissatisfaction and at the end of a long, cold, windy day. We had walked out
                        the country road toward his house and I had stopped to stare at an array of
                        crows occupying a bleak woodpatch, and at the red sun, smiling over a floor
                        of white. "There's nothing in this. It would set me crazy.
                        It's a wild goose chase. Is there anything else around here, or
                        shall I skip out tonight?"
                    He wanted me to stay and visit Bowling Green, a town near at hand. (This was
                        the one we were now approaching.) There was another newspaper there for sale
                        on easy terms. I agreed after some coaxing, and, having lingered three days
                        to secure suitable roads—the distance was twentyfive miles—we drove over. That
                        was the time I saw the gas wells. It was a better place than Grand Rapids,
                        but the price of the paper, when we reached there, was much more than we
                        could pay. I think we figured, between us, that we could put down two
                        hundred dollars and the owners wanted five hundred, with the balance on
                        mortgage and a total selling price of eight thousand. So that dream went
                        glimmering. In the meanwhile, I browsed about studying country life,
                        admiring the Maumee River at Grand Rapids (H—'s home faced it from a
                        beautiful rise). Then one fine spring day the sun rose on fields from which
                        the snow had suddenly melted, and I felt that I must be off. I went, as I
                        have said, to Toledo first. Here I encountered the youth to whom I have
                        frequently referred and with whom I was destined to lead a carious
                        career.
                    But now that I am upon the subject, perhaps I might as well include the story
                        of my journey into Toledo, where was a principal paper called the Blade with which I wished to connect myself, if possible.
                        The place only had a hundred thousand at the time, and I did not think it
                        worth the remaining years of my life, but I thought it might be good for a
                        little while—say six months. Although  I was
                        considered (I am merely quoting others) an exceptional newspaper man, I did
                        not know what I wanted to be. Already the newspaper profession was boring
                        me. It seemed a hopeless, unremunerative, more or less degrading form of
                        work, and yet I could think of nothing else to do. Apparently I had no other
                        talent.
                    I shall never forget the first morning I went into Toledo. The train followed
                        the bank of a canal and ran between that canal and the Maumee River. The
                        snow which had troubled us so much a day or two before had gone off, and it
                        was as bright and encouraging as one might wish. I was particularly elated
                        by the natural aspects of this region, for the Maumee River, beginning at
                        Fort Wayne, Indiana, and flowing northeastward, makes a peculiarly
                        attractive scenic diversion. It is a beautiful stream, with gently sloping
                        banks on either hand, and in places rapids and even slight falls. At Grand
                        Rapids and farther along it broadened out into something essentially
                        romantic to look upon, and Toledo itself, when I reached it, was so clean
                        and new and industrious—without all the depressing areas of factory and
                        tenement life which lowers the charm of some cities. It seemed to me as I
                        looked at it this Spring morning as if life must be better here than in
                        cities older, or at least greater—cities like St. Louis and Chicago, where so
                        much of the oppressive struggle for existence had already manifested itself.
                        And yet I knew I liked those cities better. Be that as it may, it was a
                        happy prospect which I contemplated, and I sought out the office of the Blade with the air of one who is certain of his powers and
                        not likely to be daunted by mere outward circumstances.
                    I have always felt of life that it is more fortuitous than anything else.
                        People strive so mightily to do things—to arrange life according to some
                        scheme of their own—but little, if anything, comes of it in most cases.
                        Children are taught by their parents that they must be this, that, or the
                        other to get along—economical, industrious, sober, truthful and the like—and
                        what comes of it? Unless they are peculiarly talented and able to use  life in a direct and forceful way—unless they
                        have qualities or charms which draw life to them, or compel life to come,
                        willy-nilly, they are used and then discarded. A profound schooling in
                        manners, morals and every other virtue and pleasantry will not make up for
                        lack of looks in a girl. Honesty, sobriety, industry, and even other solemn
                        virtues, will not raise a lad to a seat of dignity. Life is above these
                        petty rules, however essential they may be to the strong in ruling the weak,
                        or to a state or nation in the task of keeping itself in order. We succeed
                        or fail not by the socalled virtues or their absence, but by something more
                        or less than these things. All good things are gifts—beauty, strength, grace,
                        magnetism, swiftness and subtlety of mind, the urge or compulsion to do.
                        Taking thought will not bring them to anyone. Effort never avails save by
                        grace or luck or something else. The illusion of the self made is one of the
                        greatest of all.
                    Here in Toledo I came upon one of the happiest illustrations of this. In the
                        office of the Blade in the city editorial room, sat a
                        young man as city editor who was destined to take a definite and inspiriting
                        part in my life. He was small, very much smaller than myself, plump, rosy
                        cheeked, with a complexion of milk and cream, soft light brown hair, a
                        clear, observing blue eye. Without effort you could detect the speculative
                        thinker and dreamer. In the rôle of city editor of a western manufacturing
                        town paper, one must have the air, if not the substance, of commercial
                        understanding and ability (executive control and all that), and so in this
                        instance, my young city editor seemed to breathe a determination to be very
                        executive and forceful.
                    "You're a St. Louis newspaper man, eh?" he said,
                        estimating me casually and in a glance. "Never worked in a town of
                        this size though? Well, the conditions are very different. We pay much more
                        attention to small items—make a good deal out of nothing," he
                        smiled. "But there isn't a thing that I can see anyhow.
                        Nothing much beyond a three or four day job, which you wouldn't  want, I'm sure. As a matter of fact,
                        there's a street car strike on—you may have noticed it—and I could
                        use a man who would have nerve enough to ride round on the cars which the
                        company is attempting to run and report how things are. But I'll
                        tell you frankly, it's dangerous. You may be shot or hit with a
                        brick."
                    "Yes," I said, smiling and thinking of my need of
                        experience and cash. "Just how many days' work would you
                        guarantee me, if any?"
                    "Well, four. I could guarantee you that many."
                    He looked at me in a mock serious and yet approving way. I could see that he
                        was attracted to me—fate only knows why. Something about me (as he told me
                        later) affected him vigorously. He could not, he admitted, get me out of his
                        mind. He was slightly ashamed of offering me so wretched a task, and yet
                        urged by the necessity of making a showing in the face of crisis. He, too,
                        was comparatively new to his task.
                    I will not go into this story further than to say that it resulted in an
                        enduring and yet stormy and disillusioning friendship. If he had been a girl
                        he would have married me, of course. It would have been inevitable, even
                        though he was already married, as he was. That other marriage would have
                        been broken up. We were intellectual affinities, as it were. Our dreams were
                        practically identical, approaching them though we were, at different angles.
                        He was more the sentimentalist in thought, though the realist in action; I
                        the realist in thought, and sentimentalist in action. He kept looking at me
                        and that same morning, when having ridden about over all the short lines
                        unharmed and made up a dramatic story, and when, in addition, for a
                        "Romance Column" which the paper ran, I had written one or
                        two brief descriptions of farm life about Toledo, he came over to tell me
                        that he was impressed. My descriptions were beautiful, he said.
                    We went out to lunch, and stayed nearly three hours. He took me out to
                        dinner. Though he was newly married and his delightful young wife was
                        awaiting him in  their home a few miles out of
                        the city, duty compelled him to stay in town. Damon had met Pythias—Gawayne,
                        Ivaine. We talked and talked and talked. He had worked in Chicago; so had I.
                        He had known various newspaper geniuses there—so had I. He had dreams of
                        becoming a poet and novelist—I of becoming a playwright. Before the second
                        day had gone, a book of fairytales and some poems he had completed and was
                        publishing locally had been shown me. Under the action of our joint
                        chemistries I was magically impressed. I became enamoured of him—the victim
                        of a delightful illusion—one of the most perfect I have ever entertained.
                    Because he was so fond of me, so strikingly adoring, he wanted me to stay on.
                        There was no immediate place, and he could not make one for me at once, but
                        would I not wait until an opening might come? Or better yet—would I not
                        wander on toward Cleveland and Buffalo, working at what I chose, and then,
                        if a place opened, come back? He would telegraph me (as he subsequently did
                        at Pittsburg). Meanwhile we reveled in that wonderful possession—intellectual
                        affection—a passionate intellectual rapprochement, in youth. I thought he was
                        beautiful, great, perfect. He thought—well, I have heard him tell in after
                        years what he thought. Even now, at times, he fixes me with hungry,
                        welcoming eyes.
                    Alas, alas, for the dreams and the perfections which never stay!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    THE FRONTIER OF INDIANA
                    TO me, therefore, this region was holy Ganges—Mecca,
                        Medina—the blessed isles of the West. In approaching Bowling Green, Ohio, I
                        was saying to myself how strange it will be to see H— again, should he chance
                        to be there! What an interesting talk I will have with him! And after
                        Bowling Green how interesting to pass through Grand Rapids, even though
                        there was not a soul whom I would wish to greet again! Toledo was too far
                        north to bother about.
                    When we entered Bowling Green, however, by a smooth macadam road under a
                        blazing sun, it was really not interesting at all; indeed it was most
                        disappointing. The houses were small and low and everything was still, and
                        after one sees town after town for eight hundred or a thousand miles, all
                        more or less alike, one town must be different and possessed of some
                        intrinsic merit not previously encountered to attract attention.
                    I persuaded Franklin to stop at the office of the principal newspaper, in
                        order that I might make inquiry as to the present whereabouts of H—. He had
                        written me, about four years before, to say that he was connected with a
                        paper here. He wanted me to teach him how to write short stories! It was a
                        dull room or store, facing the principal street, like a bank. In it were a
                        young, reporterish looking boy, very trig and brisk and curious as to his
                        glance, and a middle aged man, bald, red faced, roundly constructed like a
                        pigeon, and about as active.
                    "Do you happen to recall a man by the name of H— who used to work
                        here in Bowling Green?" I inquired of the elder, not willing to
                        believe that he had controlled  a paper,
                        though I had understood from someone that he had.
                    "B— H—?" he replied, looking me over.
                    "Yes, that's the man."
                    "He did work here on the other paper for a while," he
                        replied with what seemed to me a faint look of contempt, though it may not
                        have been. "He hasn't been here for four or five years at
                        the least. He's up in Michigan now, I believe—Battle Creek, or
                        Sheboygan, or some such place as that. They might tell you over at the other
                        office." He waved his hand toward some outside institution—the other
                        paper.
                    "You didn't happen to know him personally, I
                        presume?"
                    "No, I saw him a few times. He was their general utility man, I
                        believe."
                    I went out, uncertain whether to bother any more or not. Twentythree years is
                        a long time. I had not seen him in all of that. I started to walk toward the
                        other newspaper office, but the sight of the bare street, with a buggy or
                        two and an automobile, and the low, quiet store buildings, deterred me.
                    "What's the use?" I asked myself. "This
                        is a stale, impossible atmosphere. There isn't an idea above hay
                        and feed in the whole place."
                    I climbed back in the car and we fled.
                    It was not much better for some distance beyond here until we began to draw
                        near Napoleon, Ohio. The country for at least twenty miles was dreadfully
                        flat and uninteresting—houses with low fences and prominent chicken coops,
                        orchards laden with apples of a still greenish yellow color, fields of
                        yellowing wheat or green corn—oh, so very flat. Not a spire of an interesting
                        church anywhere, not a respectable piece of architecture, nothing. Outside
                        of one town, where we stopped for a glass of water, we did encounter a brick
                        and plaster mausoleum—the adjunct, I believe, of a crematory—set down at the
                        junction of two macadam crossroads, and enclosed by a most offensive wooden
                        fence. Although there were  some wide fields
                        and some patches of woods, which might have been utilized to give an
                        institution of this kind a little grace—it had none, not the faintest trace.
                        The ground was grassless, or only patched in spots with it. The stained
                        glass windows which ornamented its four sides were botches—done by some
                        wholesale stained-glass window company, very likely of Peoria, Illinois.
                    "Kind heaven," I exclaimed, on sight of it, "what
                        is the matter with a country where such things can be? What's the
                        trouble with their minds anyhow? What a deadly yearning for the commonplace
                        and crude and offensive possesses them!"
                    "Yes, and they slave to do it," replied Franklin.
                        "You haven't any idea how people will toil for years under
                        a hot sun or in cold or snow to be able to build a thing like
                        that"—and he pointed to a new yellow house of the most repulsive
                        design.
                    "You're right! You're right!" I
                        replied.
                    "This country isn't so bad, perhaps, but the intellectual
                        or temperamental condition of the people spoils it—their point of view. I
                        feel a kind of chicken raising mind to be dominant here. If another kind of
                        creature lived on this soil it would be lovely, I'm sure of
                        it."
                    We sank into a deep silence. The car raced on. Once Franklin, seeing some
                        fine apples on a tree, stopped the car, climbed a fence, and helped himself
                        to a dozen. They were better to look at than to eat.
                    It was only when we reached the region of the Maumee that things began to
                        brighten up again. We were entering a much fairer land—a region extending
                        from the Maumee here at Grand Rapids, Ohio, to Fort Wayne, Warsaw and North
                        Manchester, Indiana, and indeed, nearly all the rest of our journey. We were
                        leaving the manufacturing section of Ohio and the East, and entering the
                        grain growing, rural life loving middle West. The Maumee, when we reached it
                        again, revivified all my earliest and best impressions of it. It was a
                        beautiful stream, dimpling smoothly between raised banks of dark earth and
                        fringed for the most of the way by lines of 
                        poplar, willow, and sycamore. Great patches of the parasite gold thread
                        flourished here—more gold thread than I ever saw in my life before—looking
                        like flames of light on a grey day, and covering whole small islands and
                        steep banks for distances of thirty or forty feet or more at a stretch. We
                        might have ridden into and through Grand Rapids, but I thought it scarcely
                        worth while. What would I see anyhow? Another town like Bowling Green, only
                        smaller, and the farm of H—'s parents, perhaps, if I could find it.
                        All this would take time, and would it be worth while? I decided not. The
                        Maumee, once we began to skirt its banks, was so poetic that I knew it could
                        not be better nor more reminiscent of those older days, even though I
                        followed it into Toledo.
                    But truly, this section, now that we were out of the cruder, coarser
                        manufacturing and farming region which lay to the east of it, appealed to me
                        mightily. I was beginning to feel as if I were in good company again—better
                        company than we had been in for some time. Perhaps the people were not so
                        pushing, so manufacturing,—for which heaven be praised. We encountered three
                        towns, Napoleon, Defiance and Hicksville, before nightfall, which revived
                        all the happiest days and ideals of my youth. Indeed, Napoleon was Warsaw
                        over again, with its stone and red brick courthouse,—surmounted by a statute
                        of Napoleon Bonaparte (gosh!)—and its O. N. G. Armory, and its pretty red
                        brick Methodist and brown stone Presbyterian Churches and its iron bridges
                        over the Maumee. The river here was as wide and shallow a thing as had been
                        the Tippecanoe at home, at its best, with a few small boat houses at one
                        place, and lawns or gardens which came down to the water's edge at
                        others. The principal street was crowded with ramshackle buggies and very
                        good automobiles (exceedingly fancy ones, in many instances) and farmers and
                        idlers in patched brown coats and baggy, shapeless trousers—delightful
                        pictures, every one of them. We eventually agreed to stop, and got out and
                        hung about, while Speed went back  to a garage
                        which we had seen and treated himself to oil and gas.
                    Truly, if I were a poet, I would now attempt a "Rubaiyat of a Middle
                        West Town," or I would compose "The Ballad of Napoleon,
                        Ohio," or "Verses on Hicksville," or
                        "Rondels of Warsaw." You have no idea what a charm these
                        places have—what a song they sing—to one who has ever been of them and then
                        gone out into the world and changed and cannot see life any more through the
                        medium—the stained glass medium, if you will—of the time and the mood which
                        we call our youth.
                    Here, as at Warsaw, the railroad station of an older day was hidden away in a
                        side street, where possibly six trains a day may have stopped. At Warsaw we
                        had the village bus, which took passengers to the one hotel. Here they had a
                        Ford, by heck!
                    "None o' your cheap busses for us any more!"
                    And in the plain red brick business street was this motley and yet charming
                        collection of people. I have indicated farmers and farmers' wives
                        in (the equivalent of) homespun and linen. Behold, now, your town dandy,
                        bustling into the bank or bookstore at two P. M. of this fine afternoon, a
                        veritable village Beau Brummell, very conscious of his charms. He is between
                        twentyone and twentythree, and very likely papar owns the book or the
                        clothing store and is proud of his son's appearance. In my day son
                        would have had a smart runabout, with red or yellow wheels, in which he
                        would have arrived, picking up a very pretty girl by the way. Now he has an
                        automobile—even if it is only a Buick—and he feels himself to be the most
                        perfect of youths.
                    And here come three girls, arm in arm, village belles, so pretty in their
                        bright, summery washdresses. Do you think New York can teach them anything—or
                        Paris? Tush! Not so fast. Look at our skirts, scarcely below the knees, with
                        pointed ruffles, and flaring flounces, and our bright grey kid slippers, and
                        the delicate frills about our necks, and the soft bloomy gaiety of our
                        "sport" hats. New York-teach us anything? We teach New  York, rather! We are down for mail, or
                        stationery, or an ice cream soda, and to see and be seen. Perhaps Beau
                        Brummell will drive us home in his car, or we may refuse and just laugh at
                        him.
                    And, if you please, here is one of the town's young scarlet women.
                        No companionship for her. She is dressed like the others, only more so, but
                        to emphasize the difference she is rouged as to cheeks and lips. Those
                        eager, seeking eyes! No woman will openly look at her, nor any girl. But the
                        men—these farmers and lawyers and town politicians! Which one of them will
                        seek her out first tonight, do you suppose—the lawyer, the doctor, or the
                        storekeeper?
                    How good it all tasted after New York! And what a spell it cast. I can
                        scarcely make you understand, I fear. Indiana is a world all unto itself and
                        this extreme western portion of Ohio is a part of it, not by official, but
                        rather by natural arrangement. The air felt different—the sky and trees and
                        streets here were sweeter. They really were. The intervening years frizzled
                        away and once more I saw myself quite clearly in this region, with the ideas
                        and moods of my youth still dominant. I was a "kid" again,
                        and these streets and stores were as familiar to me as though I had lived in
                        them all my life.
                    Franklin and I were looking in at the window of the one combined music and
                        piano store, to see what they sold. All the popular songs were
                        there—"I Didn't Raise My Boy To Be a Soldier,"
                        "It's a Long, Long Way to Tipperary,"
                        "He's a Devil in His Own Home Town," and others
                        such as "Goodbye, Goodbye" and "Though We Should
                        Never Meet Again." As I looked at these things, so redolent of
                        small town love affairs and of calling Wednesdays and Saturdays, my mind
                        went back to all the similar matters I had known (not my own—I never had any)
                        and the condition of the attractive girl and the average young men in a town
                        like this. How careful is their upbringing—supposedly. How earnestly is die
                        Sunday School and the precept and the maxim invoked, and how persistently so
                        many of them go their  own way. They do not
                        know what it is all about, all this talk about religion and morality and
                        duty. In their blood is a certain something which responds to the light of
                        the sun and the blue of the sky.
                    Did you ever read "The Ballad of the Nun," by John
                        Davidson? See if this doesn't suggest what I'm talking
                        about:
                    
                        "The adventurous sun took heaven by storm,
                        Clouds scattered largesses of rain,
                        The sounding cities, rich and warm,
                        Smouldered and glittered in the plain.
                        "Sometimes it was a wandering wind,
                        Sometimes the fragrance of the pine,
                        Sometimes the thought how others sinned,
                        That turned her sweet blood into wine.
                        "Sometimes she heard a serenade,
                        Complaining, sweetly, far away.
                        She said, 'A young man woos a maid';
                        And dreamt of love till break of day.
                        "For still night's starry scroll unfurled,
                        And still the day came like a flood:
                        It was the greatness of the world
                        That made her long to use her blood."
                    
                    Somehow this region suggested this poem.
                    But, oh, these youngsters, the object of so much attention and solicitation,
                        once they break away from these sheltering confines and precepts and enter
                        the great world outside—then what? Do they fulfil any or all of the ideals
                        here dreamed for them? I often think of them in the springtime going forth
                        to the towns and the cities, their eyes lit with the sheen of new life.
                        Ninetynine per cent. of them, as you and I know, end in the most humdrum
                        fashion—not desperately or dramatically—just humdrum and nothing at all.
                        Death, disease, the doldrums, small jobs, smaller ideas claim the majority
                        of them. They grow up thinking that to be a drug clerk or a dentist or a
                        shoe dealer is a great thing. Well, maybe it is—I don't know.
                        Spinoza was a watch repairer. But  in youth
                        all are so promising. They look so fine. And in a small town like this, they
                        buzz about so ecstatically, dreaming and planning.
                    Seeing young boys walking through the streets of Napoleon and greeting each
                        other and looking at the girls—sidewise or with a debonair security—brought
                        back all the boys of my youth—all those who had been so promising and of such
                        high hopes in my day. Where are they? Well, I do not need to guess. In most
                        cases I know. They would make gloomy or dull tales. Why bother? In spring
                        the sun-god breeds a new crop. Each autumn a new class enters school. Each
                        spring time, at school's end, a group break away to go to the
                        city.
                    Oh bright young hopes! Oh visions! visions!—mirages of success that hang so
                        alluringly in amethyst skies!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    ACROSS THE BORDER OF BOYLAND
                    AS we were looking in this same window, I saw a man who
                        looked exactly like a man who used to be a lawyer politician in Warsaw, a
                        small town lawyer politician, such as you find in every town of the kind,
                        pettifogging their lives away, but doing it unconsciously, you may well
                        believe. This one had that peculiar something about him which marks the
                        citizen who would like to be a tribune of the people but lacks the capacity.
                        His clothes, nondescript, durable garments, were worn with the air of one
                        who says "It is good to dress plainly. That is what my clients
                        expect. Besides, I am a poor man, a commoner, and proud of it. I know that
                        my constituents are proud of it too." He was standing at the foot
                        of a law office stairs from which quite plainly he had just descended. This
                        was not quite enough to confirm me in my idea that he was a country lawyerhe
                        might have been a client—but I went further and asked him, in a roundabout
                        way.
                    "What is the best road to Defiance?"
                    "Well," he replied, with quite an air, as who should say,
                        "now here is a pleasant opportunity and diversion"—
                        "There are two of them. One runs to the north of here, a hard,
                        macadam road, and the other follows the canal and the river most of the way.
                        Personally, I would choose the canal. It isn't quite as good a
                        road, but the scenery is so much better. You have the river nearly always in
                        view to your left. To the right the scenery is very attractive." He
                        raised his hand in a slightly oratorical way.
                    "By the way, if you will pardon me, you are a lawyer,
                        aren't you?"
                    
                    "Well, yes, I suppose I might lay claim to that
                        distinction," he replied, with a faintly dry smile. "I
                        practice law here."
                    His coat was as brown as old brass, nearly, his shoes thick and unpolished,
                        his trousers baggy. The soft hat he wore was pulled down indifferently over
                        his eyes.
                    "I ask," I said, "because years ago, in Warsaw,
                        Indiana, I knew a lawyer who looked very much like you."
                    "Indeed! I've never been in Warsaw, but I've heard
                        of it. We have people here that go to Winona Lake. That's right
                        near there, isn't it?"
                    "Practically the same place," I replied.
                    "Well, when there are so many people in the world, I suppose some of
                        us must look alike," He continued.
                    "Yes," I replied, "I've met my
                        counterpart more than once."
                    He began to expatiate on the charms of this region, but seeing that we were
                        plainly rather anxious to be off, finally concluded and let us go. I could
                        not help thinking, as he looked after us, that perhaps he would like very
                        much to be going himself.
                    From here on the scenery was so simple and yet so beautiful that it was like
                        a dream—such a land as Goldsmith and Gray had in mind when they wrote. This
                        little stream, the Maumee, was delightful. It was, as he said, paralleled by
                        a canal nearly all the way into Defiance and between canal and river were
                        many little summer cottages, quaint and idle looking.
                    It had become excessively hot, so much so that I felt that now, at last, I
                        was beginning to sunburn badly, but in spite of this we had no thought of
                        putting up the top or of seeking shelter by lingering in the shade. It was
                        so hot that I perspired sitting in the car, but even so it was too lovely,
                        just moving along with what breeze the motion provided. At Napoleon, Booth
                        had bought a light rubber ball, and with this, a few miles out, we stopped
                        to play. The automobile gave us this freedom to seek ideal nooks and
                        secluded places, and thus disport ourselves. The grass and trees were still
                        green, not  burned. Wheat fields newly shorn
                        or still standing had that radiant gold hue which so pleases the eye at this
                        season of the year. It was so hot and still that even all insects seemed to
                        have taken to cover. We tossed our ball in a green field opposite a grove
                        and looking up I could see a lonely buzzard soaring in the sky. Truly this
                        is my own, my native land, I said to myself. I have rejoiced in hundreds of
                        days just like this. All the middle West is like it—this dry heat, these
                        clear skies, this sleepy baking atmosphere. For hundreds of miles, in my
                        mind's eye, I could see people idling on their porches or under
                        their trees, making the best of it. The farmer's wain was creaking
                        along in the sun, the cattle were idling in the water, swishing their tails.
                        Girls and boys home from school for the summer were idling in hammocks,
                        reading or loafing. Few great thoughts or turmoils were breeding in this
                        region. It was a pleasant land of drowsy mind and idle eye—I could feel
                        it.
                    By winding ways, but always with a glimpse of this same Maumee or its
                        parallel canal, we arrived at Defiance, and a little while later, at dusk,
                        at Hicksville. Both of these towns, like Napoleon, were of the temperament
                        of which I am most fond—nebulous, speculative, dreamy. You could tell by
                        their very looks that that definite commercial sense which was so marked in
                        places farther East was not here abounding. They were still, as at Warsaw in
                        my day, outside the keen, shrill whip of things. Everyone was not strutting
                        around with the all-too-evident feeling that they must get on. (I hate
                        greedy, commercial people.) Things were drifting in a slow, romantic,
                        speculative way. Actually I said to Franklin, and he will bear witness to
                        it, that now we were in the exact atmosphere which was most grateful to me.
                        I looked on all the simple little streets, the one and a half story houses
                        with sloping roofs, the rows of good trees and unfenced lawns, and wished
                        and wished and wished. If one only could go back—supposing one could—unreel
                        like a film, and then represent one's life to oneself. What
                        elisions would we not make, and what extensions! Some  incidents I would make so much more perfect than they
                        were—others would not be in the film at all.
                    In Defiance we all indulged in shaves, shoe shines, drinks. As we were
                        nearing Hicksville we overtook two farmers—evidently brothers, on a load of
                        hay. It was so beautiful, the charm of the land so great, that we were all
                        in the best of spirits. To the south of us was a little town looking like
                        one of those villages in Holland which you see over a wide stretch of flat
                        land, a distant church spire or windmill being the most conspicuous object
                        anywhere. Here it was a slate church steeple and a red factory chimney that
                        stood up and broke the sky line. It was fairyland with a red sun, just
                        sinking below the horizon, the trees taking on a smoky harmony in the
                        distance. Spirals of gnats were in the air and we were on one of those
                        wonderful brick roads I have previously mentioned, running from Defiance to
                        Hicksville, as smooth and picturesque to view as an old Dutch tile oven.
                        Once we stopped the car to listen to the evening sounds, the calls of
                        farmers after pigs, the mooing of cows, the rasping of guinea hens, and the
                        last faint twitterings of birds and chickens. That evening hush, with a
                        tinge of cool in the air, and the fragrant emanation of the soil and trees,
                        was upon us. It needed only some voice singing somewhere, I thought, or the
                        sound of a bell, to make it complete. And even those were added.
                    As we were idling so, these two farmers came along seated on a load of hay,
                        making a truly Ruysdaelish picture in the amethyst light. We made sure to
                        greet them.
                    "What town is that one there?" Franklin inquired,
                        jovially.
                    "Squiresburg," the driver replied, grinning. His brother
                        was sitting far back on the hay.
                    "This is the road to Hicksville all right, isn't
                        it?" I put in.
                    "Yes, this is the road," he returned.
                    "How large a place is Squiresburg, anyhow?" I queried.
                    "Oh, seven or eight hundred."
                    
                    "And how big is Hicksville?"
                    "Oh, two or three thousand."
                    "But Squiresburg's a better place than
                        Hicksville," put in the brother, who sat behind, chewing a stalk of
                        hay and smiling broadly.
                    "How's that?" inquired Franklin.
                    The fellow's manner was contagious.
                    "Oh, they're not as hard on yuh over in Squiresburg as they
                        are in Hicksville." He munched his straw suggestively.
                        "Y' kin have a better time there."
                    He smiled again, most elusively.
                    "Oh, this," said Speed, quickly, forming his fingers into a
                        cup and upending it before his lips.
                    "That's it," said the man. "There
                        ain't no license in Hicksville."
                    "Alas!" I exclaimed. "And we're bound for
                        Hicksville."
                    "Well, tain't too late," said the man in front.
                        "There's Squiresburg right over there."
                    "I'm afraid, I'm afraid," I sighed, and
                        yet the thought came to me what a fine thing it would be to turn aside here
                        and loaf in Squiresburg in one of its loutish country saloons, say, until
                        midnight, seeing what might happen. The Dutch inns of Jan Steen were somehow
                        in my mind. But just the same we didn't. Those things must be taken
                        on the jump. An opportunity to be a success must provoke a spontaneous burst
                        of enthusiasm. This suggestion of theirs, if it appealed to the others,
                        provoked no vocal acquiescence. We smiled at them approvingly, and then rode
                        on, only to comment later on what an adventure it might have proved—how
                        rurally revealing.
                    As we entered Hicksville the lamps were being trimmed in a cottage or two,
                        and I got a sense once more of the epic that life is day after day, year
                        after year, century after century, cycle after cycle. Poets may come and
                        poets may go, a Gray, a Goldsmith, a Burns in every generation, but this
                        thing which they seek to interpret remains forever. A Daubigny, a Corot, a
                        Ruysdael, a Vermeer, all American born, might well interpret this 
                        
                            HICKSVILLE A Rembrandt effect
                        
                         from generation to generation. It would never
                        tire. Passing up this simple village street, with its small cottages on
                        every hand, I could not help thinking of what a Monticelli or an Inness
                        would make it. The shadows at this hour were somewhat flamboyant, like those
                        in "The Night Watch." A sprinkling of people in the two
                        blocks which comprised the heart of things was Rembrandtish in character.
                        Positively, it was a comfort now to know that Franklin was with me, and that
                        subsequently he would register this or something like it either in pen and
                        ink or charcoal. It was no delightful to me in all its rural naivet and
                        crudity, that I wanted to sing about it or sit down in some corner somewhere
                        and rhapsodize on paper. As it was, after exchanging a few words with a
                        farmer who wanted to hear the story of our tour, we went to look for some
                        picture postcards of Hicksville, and then to get something to eat.
                    It would seem at times as if life needed not so much action as
                        atmosphere—certainly not action of any vigorous character—to make it
                        transcendently pleasing. Insofar as I could see, there was no action in this
                        town worthy of the name. Indeed, the people seemed to me to be of a
                        lackadaisical turn, rurals of a very simple and unpretentious character,
                        and, for the most part, as to the men, of an uncouth and workaday aspect.
                        Many of them were of the stuff of which railroad hands are made, only here
                        with the farm lands and the isolation of country life to fall back on, they
                        were not so sophisticated.
                    The country lunch room which we encountered amused us all from one point of
                        view and another. It was so typically your male center of rural life,
                        swarming with all the wits and wags of the community and for miles around.
                        Here raw yokels and noisy pretenders were eating, playing cards, pool,
                        billiards, and indulging in rural wit, and we heard all the standard jests
                        of country life. I gained the impression that the place had once been a
                        barroom before the no-license limitation had descended upon it, and that
                        many of its former patrons were making the best of the new conditions.
                    
                    And here it was that for the first time in my life I tasted banana pie. Did
                        you ever eat banana pie? Well! The piece I had here, in lieu of apple for
                        which I inquired, a quarter section, with a larger layer of meringue on top,
                        filled a long felt want and a void. It made up for the fact that I had to
                        content myself with a ham sandwich and two fried eggs. It was thick—all of an
                        inch and a half—and very pastryish. I asked the clerk (I cannot
                        conscientiously call him a waiter) if he knew how to make it, but he did
                        not. And I have been seeking ever since for a recipe as good as that from
                        which this pie was made.
                    Next door to this restaurant was the Hotel Swilley—mark the name—and farther up
                        the street, "Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Holmes, Undertaker." In
                        the one drug and book and stationery store, where the only picture postcards
                        we could find were of the depot and the "residence of N. C.
                        Giffen," whoever he might be, several very young girls,
                        "downtown for a soda," were calling up some other girl at
                        home.
                    "Hello, Esther! Is this you, Esther? Well, don't you know
                        who this is, Esther? Can't you tell? Oh, listen, Esther! Listen to
                        my voice. Now can't you tell, Esther? I thought you could.
                        It's Etta, of course. Wait a minute, Esther, Mabel wants to speak
                        to you. Well, goodbye, Esther." (This last after Mabel had spoken
                        to much the same effect as Etta.)
                    After idling about in what seemed an almost Saturday night throng, so chipper
                        and brisk was it, we made our way to Fort Wayne. It was a brisk, cool ride.
                        The moon was on high, very clear, and a light wind blowing which made
                        overcoats comfortable. Just outside Hicksville we encountered another
                        detour, which shut us off from our fine road and enraged us so that we
                        decided to ignore the sign warning us to keep out under penalty of the law
                        and to go on anyhow. There seemed a good road ahead in spite of the sign,
                        and so we deliberately separated the boards on posts which barred the way
                        and sped on.
                    But the way of the transgressor—remember! Scarcely  a mile had gone before the road broke into fragments,
                        partially made passable by a filling of crushed stone, but after that it
                        swiftly degenerated into mud, rubble and ruts, and we began to think we had
                        made a dreadful mistake. Supposing we were stalled here and found? What
                        would become of my trip to Indiana! Fined and detained, Franklin might get
                        very much out of sorts and not care to go on. Oh, dear! Oh, dear!
                    We bumped along over rocks and stumps in the most uncomfortable fashion. The
                        car rocked like a boat on a helter-skelter at Coney Island. Finally we came
                        to a dead stop and looked into our condition, fore and aft. Things were
                        becoming serious. Perspiration began to flow and regrets for our sinful
                        tendencies to exude, when, in the distance, the fence at the other end
                        appeared.
                    Immediately we cheered up. Poof! What was a small adventure like this?—a jolly
                        lark, that was all. Who wouldn't risk a car being stuck in order to
                        achieve a cutoff like this and outwit the officers of the law? One had to
                        take a sporting chance always. Why certainly! Nevertheless, I secretly
                        thanked God or whatever gods there be, and Franklin and Speed looked
                        intensely relieved. We jogged along another eight hundred feet, tore down
                        the wire screen at the other end, and rushed on—a little fearfully, I think,
                        since there was a farm house near at hand with a lot of road-making
                        machinery in the yard. Perhaps it was the home of the road foreman! I hope
                        he doesn't ever read this book, and come and arrest us. Or if he
                        does I hope he only arrests Franklin and Speed. On reflection a month or so
                        in jail would not hurt them any, I think.
                    And then, after an hour or so, the city of Fort Wayne appeared in the
                        distance. It does not lie on high ground, or in a hollow, but the presence
                        of some twenty or thirty of those antiquated light towers which I mentioned
                        as having been installed at Evansville, Indiana, in 1882, and which were
                        still in evidence here, gave it that appearance. It seemed at first as
                        though this town must be on a rise and we looking up at it from a valley; as
                        we  drew nearer, as though it were in a valley
                        and we looking down from a height. We soon came to one of those pretentious
                        private streets, so common in the cities of the West in these days—a street
                        with a great gate at either end, open and unguarded and set with a
                        superfluity of lights; which arrangement, plus houses of a certain grade of
                        costliness, give that necessary exclusiveness the newly rich require,
                        apparently. It was quite impressive. And then we came to a place where,
                        quite in the heart of the city, two rivers, the St. Mary and the St. Joseph,
                        joined to make the Maumee; and here, most intelligently, I thought, a small
                        park had been made. It was indeed pleasing. And then we raced into the
                        unescapable Main Street of the city, in this instance a thoroughfare so
                        blazing with lights that I was much impressed. One would scarcely see more
                        light on the Great White Way in New York.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    A MIDDLE WESTERN CROWD
                    THOUGH a city of seventyfive thousand, or thereabouts,
                        Fort Wayne made scarcely any impression upon me. Now that I was back in
                        Indiana and a few miles from my native heath, as it were, I expected, or
                        perhaps I only half imagined, that I might gain impressions and sensations
                        commensurate with my anticipations. But I didn't. This was the
                        city, or town, as it was then, to which my parents had originally traveled
                        after their marriage in Dayton, Ohio, and where my father worked in a woolen
                        mill as foreman, perhaps, before subsequently becoming its manager. It had
                        always been a place of interest, if not happy memory, to my mother, who
                        seemed to feel that she had been very happy here.
                    When our family, such as it was (greatly depleted by the departure of most of
                        the children), came north to Warsaw, Fort Wayne, so much nearer than Chicago
                        and a city of forty thousand, was the Mecca for the sporting youth of our
                        town. To go to Fort Wayne! What a week end treat! For most of our youth who
                        had sufficient means to travel so far, it was a city of great adventure. The
                        fare was quite one dollar and seventyfive cents for the round trip, and only
                        the bloods and sports, as we knew them, attempted it. I never had money
                        enough to go, as much as I wanted to, nor yet the friends who were eager for
                        my companionship.
                    But what tales did I not hear of restaurants, saloons, theatres, and other
                        resorts of pleasure visited, and what veiled hints were not cast forth of
                        secret pleasures indulged in—flirtations, if not more vigorous escapades.
                        Life was such a phantasm of delight to me then. Nameless and formless
                        pleasures danced constantly before my  eyes.
                        Principally, not quite entirely, they were connected with the beauty of
                        girls, though money and privilege and future success were other forms. And
                        there were a few youths and some girls in Warsaw, who to my inexperienced
                        judgment, possessed nearly all that life had to offer!
                    At this late date, however, Fort Wayne, looking at it in the cold, practical
                        light of a middle-aged automobile tourist, offered but few titillations,
                        either reminiscent or otherwise. Here it was, to me, sacred ground, and here
                        had these various things occurred, yet as I viewed it now it seemed a rather
                        dull, middle West town, with scarcely anything save a brisk commerce to
                        commend it. Abroad one finds many cities of the same size of great interest,
                        historically and architecturally—but here! By night and day it seemed bright
                        enough, and decidedly clean. All that I could think of as Franklin and I
                        drifted about it on this first night was that it was a very humble copy of
                        every other larger American city in all that it attempted—streets, cabarets,
                        high buildings and so on. Every small city in America desires to be like
                        Chicago or New York or both, to reproduce what is built and done in these
                        places—the most obvious things, I mean.
                    After dining at a cabaret Hofbru House and sleeping in a very comfortable
                        room which admitted the clangor of endless street car bells, however, I
                        awoke next morning with a sick stomach and a jaded interest in all material
                        things, and I had neither eaten nor drunk much of anything the night
                        before—truly, truly! We had sought out the principal resort and sat in it as
                        a resource against greater boredom, nothing more. And now, being without
                        appetite, I wandered forth to the nearest drug store to have put up the best
                        remedy I know for a sick stomach—nux vomica and gentian, whatever that may
                        be.
                    It was in this drug store that the one interesting thing in Fort Wayne
                        occurred—at least to me. There were, as it was still early, a negro sweeping
                        the place, and one clerk, a lean apothecary with roached and pointed hair,
                        who was concealed in some rear room. He came forward  after a time, took my prescription, and told me I would have
                        to wait ten minutes. Later another man hobbled in, a creature who looked
                        like the "before" picture of a country newspaper patent
                        medicine advertisement. He was so gaunt and blue and sunken-seamed as to
                        face that he rather frightened me, as if a corpse should walk into your room
                        and begin to look around. His clothes were old and brown and looked as
                        though they had been worn heaven knows what length of time. The clerk came
                        out, and he asked for something the name of which I did not catch. Presently
                        the clerk came back with his prescription and mine, and going to him and
                        putting down a bottle and a box of pills, said of the former, holding it up,
                        "Now this is for your blood. You understand, do you? You take this
                        three times a day, every day until it is gone." The sick man nodded
                        like an automaton. "And these"—he now held up the
                        pills—"are for your bowels. You take two o' these every
                        night."
                    "This is for my blood and these are for my bowels," said
                        the man slowly.
                    The nostrums were wrapped up very neatly in grey paper, and tied with a pink
                        string. The corpse extracted out of a worn leather book sixtyfive cents in
                        small pieces, and put them down. Then he shuffled slowly out.
                    "What ails him, do you suppose?" I asked of the dapper,
                        beau-like clerk.
                    "Oh, chronic anæmia. He can't live long."
                    "Will that medicine do him any good, do you think?"
                    "Not a bit. He can't live. He'll all worn out. But
                        he goes to some doctor around here and gets a prescription and we have to
                        fill it. If we didn't, someone else would."
                    He smiled on me most genially.
                    What a shame to take his money, I thought. He looks as though food or decent
                        clothes would be better for him, but what might one say? I recalled how when
                        I was young and chronically ailing, how eagerly I clung to the thought of
                        life, and would I not now if I were in his place? Here was I with a
                        prescription of my own in my  hand which I
                        scarcely touched afterwards. But how near to his grave that man really was.
                        And how futile and silly that advice about his blood sounded!
                    Without any special interest in Fort Wayne to delay us, and without any
                        desire to see or do anything in particular, we made finally that memorable
                        start for Warsaw toward which I had been looking ever since I stepped into
                        the car in New York. Now in an hour or two or three, at the best, I would be
                        seeing our old home, or one of them, at least, and gazing at the things
                        which of all things identified with my youth appealed to me most. Here I had
                        had my first taste of the public school as opposed to the Catholic or
                        parochial school, and a delightful change it was. Warsaw was so beautiful,
                        or seemed to me so at the time, a love of a place, with a river or small
                        stream and several lakes and all the atmosphere of a prosperous and yet
                        homey and home-loving resort. My mother and father and sisters and brothers
                        were so interesting to me in those days. As in the poem of
                        Davidson's,
                    
                        "The sounding cities, rich and warm
                        Smouldered and glittered in the plain."
                    
                    I was thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen. The sun and the air and some
                        responsive chemistry which I do not understand were making my blood into
                        wine. Would I now be dreadfully disappointed?
                    Our way lay through a country more or less familiar as to its character,
                        though I had never actually been through it except on a train. All about
                        were small towns and lakes which I had heard of but never visited. Now it
                        was my privilege to see them if I chose, and I felt very much elated over it
                        all. I was interested, amused, curiosity stirred.
                    But it was not until we reached Columbia City, only twenty miles from Warsaw,
                        that my imagination was keenly aroused. Columbia City, small as it was, say
                        fifteen or eighteen hundred at that time, and not much larger now, was
                        another spot to which our small-town life-seeking 
                        
                            WITH THE OLD SETTLERS AT COLUMBIA CITY, INDIANA
                        
                         gadabouts were wont to run on a Saturday
                        night—for what purpose I scarcely know, since I never had sufficient means to
                        accompany them. At that time, in that vigorously imaginative period, I
                        conjured up all sorts of sybaritic delights, as being the end and aim of
                        these expeditions, since the youths who comprised them were so keen in
                        regard to all matters of sex. They seemed to be able to think of nothing
                        else, and talked girls, girls, girls from morning to night, or made sly
                        references to these jaunts which thereby became all the more exciting to me
                        Warsaw at that time was peculiarly favored with a bevy of attractive girls
                        who kept all our youths on the qui vive as to love and
                        their favor. With an imagination that probably far outran my years, I built
                        up a fancy as to Columbia City which far exceeded its import, of course. To
                        me it was a kind of Cairo of the Egyptians, with two horned Hathor in the
                        skies, and what breaths of palms and dulcet quavers of strings and drums I
                        know not.
                    These youths, who were quite smart and possessed of considerable pocket
                        money, much more than I ever had or could get, would not have me as a
                        companion. I was a betwixt and between soul at that time, not entirely
                        debarred from certain phases of association and companionship with youths
                        somewhat older than myself, and yet never included in these more private and
                        intimate adventures to which they were constantly referring. They kept me on
                        tenter hooks, as did the ravishing charms of so many girls about us, without
                        my ever being satisfied. Besides, from this very town had come a girl to our
                        Warsaw High School whom I used to contemplate with adoring eyes, she was so
                        rounded and pink and gay. But that was all it ever came to, just that—I
                        contemplated her from afar. I never had-the courage to go near her. In the
                        presence of most girls, especially the attractive ones, I was dumb, frozen
                        by a nameless fear.
                    So this place, now we reached it, had interest to this extent, that I wanted
                        to see what it was like although I really knew—courthouse, courthouse square,
                        surrounding stores, and then a few streets with simple homes and  churches. Exactly. It was like all the
                        others, only somewhat poorer—not so good as Napoleon, Ohio, or even
                        Hicksville.
                    But there was something that was much better than anything we had encountered
                        yet—an Old Settler's Day, no less—which had filled the streets with
                        people and wagons and the public square with tents, for resting rooms, had
                        spread table cloths out on the public lawn for eating, while a
                        merry-go-round whirled in the middle of one street, and various tents and
                        stands on several sides of the square were crowded with eatables and
                        drinkables of sorts. I believe they have dubbed these small aisles of tents
                        a "Broadway," in the middle West. Of course, there were
                        popcorn, candy, hot "weenies," as sausages are known
                        hereabouts, and lemonade. I never saw a more typically rural crowd, nor one
                        that seemed to get more satisfaction out of its modest pleasures.
                    But the very old farmers and their wives, the old settlers and settleresses
                        and their children and their grandchildren, and their great grandchildren!
                        Life takes on at once comic and yet poetic and pathetic phases the moment
                        you view a crowd of this kind in the detached way that we were doing it.
                        Here were men and women so old and worn and bent and crumpled by the ageing
                        processes of life that they looked like the yellow leaves of the autumn.
                        Compared with the fresh young people who were to be seen spinning about on
                        the merry-go-round, or walking the streets in twos and threes, they were
                        infinitely worn. Such coats and trousers, actually cut and sewn at home! And
                        such hats and whiskers and canes and shoes! I called Franklin's
                        attention to two stocky, pinky rustics wearing Charlie Chaplin hats and
                        carrying Charlie Chaplin canes, and then to group after group of men and
                        women so astonishing that they seemed figures out of some gnome or troll
                        world, figures so distorted as to seem only fit fancies for a dream. We sat
                        down by one so weird that he seemed the creation of a genius bent on
                        depicting age. I tried to strike up a conversation, but he would not. He did
                        not seem to hear. I began to  whisper to
                        Franklin concerning the difference between a figure like this and those
                        aspirations which we held in our youth concerning "getting
                        on." Life seems to mock itself with these walking commentaries on
                        ambition. Of what good are the fruits of earthly triumph anyhow?
                    Nearly all of the older ones, to add to their picturesqueness, wore bits of
                        gold lettered cloth which stated clearly that they were old settlers. They
                        stalked or hobbled or stood about talking in a mechanical manner. They
                        rasped and cackled—"grandthers,"
                        "gaffers," "Polichinelles,"
                        "Pantaloons." I had to smile, and yet if the least breath
                        of the blood mood of sixteen were to return, one would cry.
                    And then came the younger generations! I wish those who are so sure that
                        democracy is a great success and never to be upset by the cunning and
                        self-interestedness of wily and unscrupulous men, would make a face to face
                        study of these people. I am in favor of the dream of democracy, on whatever
                        basis it can be worked out. It is an ideal. But how, I should like to ask,
                        is a proletariat such as this, and poorer specimens yet, as we all know, to
                        hold its own against the keen, resourceful oligarchs at the top? Certainly
                        ever since I have been in the world, I have seen nothing but Americans who
                        were so sure that the people were fit to rule, and did rule, and that
                        nothing but the widest interests of all the people were ever really sought
                        by our statesmen and leaders in various fields. The people are all right and
                        to be trusted. They are capable of understanding their public and private
                        affairs in such a manner as to bring the greatest-happiness to the greatest
                        number—but are they? I was taught this in the adjacent schools of Warsaw,
                        quite as I was taught that the Christian ideal was right and true, and that
                        it really prevailed in life, and that those who did not agree with it were
                        thieves and scoundrels. Actually, I went into life from this very region
                        believing largely in all this, only to find by degrees that this theory had
                        no relationship to the facts. Life was persistently demonstrating to me that
                        self-interest and only self-interest 
                        ruled—that strength dominated weakness, that large ideas superseded and ruled
                        small ones, and so on and so forth, ad infinitum. It was
                        interesting and even astonishing to find that we were not only being
                        dominated mentally by a theory that had no relationship to life whatsoever,
                        but that large, forceful brains were even then plotting the downfall of the
                        republic. Big minds were ruling little ones, big thoughts superseding little
                        ones. The will to power was in all individuals above the grade of amba, and
                        even there. All of us were mouthing one set of ideas and acting according to
                        a set of instincts entirely opposed to our so called ideas. I, for one, was
                        always charging individuals with failing to live up to the Christian idea
                        and its derived moral code, whereas no detail of the latter affected my own
                        conduct in the least.
                    Looking at this crowd of people here in the streets of Columbia City, I was
                        more affected by their futility and pathos—life's futility and
                        pathos for the mass—than by anything else so far. What could these people do,
                        even by banding together, to control the giants at the top? Here they were,
                        entertained like babies by the most pathetic toys—a badge, a little
                        conversation, a little face-to-face contemplation of other futilitarians as
                        badly placed as themselves. The merry-go-round was spinning and grinding out
                        a wheezy tune. I saw young girls sitting sidewise of wooden horses, lions
                        and the like, their dresses (because of the short skirt craze) drawn to the
                        knee, or nearly so. Imagine the storm which would have ensued in my day had
                        any girl dared to display more than an ankle! (Custom! Custom!) About it
                        were small boys and big boys and big girls, for the most part too poor to
                        indulge in its circular madness very often, who were contenting themselves
                        with contemplating the ecstasy of others.
                    "Franklin," I said, "you were raised out in this
                        region about the time I was. How would such a spectacle as that have been
                        received in our day?" (I was referring to  the exhibition of legs, and I was very pleased with it as
                        such, not quarreling with it at all.)
                    "Oh, shocking," he replied, smiling reminiscently,
                        "it just wouldn't have occurred."
                    "And how do you explain its possibility now? These people are just
                        as religious, aren't they?"
                    "Nearly so—but fashion, fashion, the mass love of imitation. If the
                        mass want to do it and can find an excuse or permission in the eyes of
                        others, or even if they don't want to do it, but their superiors
                        do, they will suffer it. I haven't the slightest doubt but that
                        there is many a girl sitting on a wooden horse in there who would rather not
                        have her skirt pulled up to her knees, but since others do it she does it.
                        She wants to be 'in the swim.' And she'd rather
                        be unhappy or a little ashamed than not be in the swim. Nothing hurts like
                        being out of style, you know, especially out in the country these days—not
                        even the twinges of a Puritan conscience."
                    "Franklin," I said, "I'll tell you. You
                        were raised on a farm and know farmer boys at sight. Pick me out a
                        farmer's boy here and now, who hasn't money enough to ride
                        in this thing, and I'll give him a dime. We'll see how he
                        takes it."
                    Franklin smiled and looked around carefully. The thing interested him so much
                        that he finally circled the merry-go-round and lighted on one youth whose
                        short pants and ungainly shoes and cheap but clean little dotted skirt and
                        small fifteen or twentyfive cent hat and pink cheeks, as well as his open
                        mouth and rapt attention, indicated that here was a wonder with which he was
                        thoroughly unfamiliar. I waited to see if he would step aboard at the next
                        stop of the car, or the next, but no, he was merely an onlooker. At the next
                        start of the car or platform I watched his eager eyes follow those who got
                        on. It was pathetic, and when the merry-go-round started again he gazed
                        aloft at the whirling thing in an ecstasy of delight. As it was slowing down
                        for the second or third time, preparatory to taking on a new load, I reached
                        over his shoulder and quite unheeded, at first,  put a quarter before his eyes. For a moment he stopped quite dazed and
                        looked at it, then at me, then at the quarter, then at me.
                    "Go on! Ride!" I commanded. "Get on!" The
                        carousel was almost still.
                    Suddenly, with a mixture of reverence, awe, and a world of surprise in his
                        eyes, he seemed to comprehend what I meant. He looked at his shabby father
                        who had been standing near him all this while, but finding him interested in
                        other things, clambered aboard. I watched him take his place beside a horse,
                        not on it. I watched it start with almost as much pleasure as came to him, I
                        think. Then as the speed increased, I turned to urge Franklin to photograph
                        two old men, who were near. They were so wonderful. We were still at that
                        when the machine stopped, only I did not notice. I was watching the two old
                        men. All at once I saw this boy making his way through the crowd. He had his
                        hand out before him, and as he reached me he opened it and there were the
                        four nickels change.
                    "Oh, no," I said. "I didn't mean you to
                        give them back. Run quick! Ride again! Get on before it starts
                        again."
                    I can see those round, surprised blue eyes with the uncertain light of vague
                        comprehension and happiness in them. He could scarcely make it out.
                    "Run quick," I said. "Ride four times, or do
                        anything you please."
                    His eyes seemed to get rounder and bigger for a second, then his hand
                        wavered, and the hungry fingers shut tight on the money. He ran.
                    "How's that for getting a thousand dollars' worth
                        of fun for a nickel, Franklin?" I inquired.
                    "Right-o," he replied. "We ought to be ashamed to
                        take it."
                    And it was literally true, so subtle are the ways by which one can come by
                        what does not belong to him, even though partially paid for.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV
                    WARSAW AT LAST!
                    GETTING to Warsaw was a matter of an hour or so at most
                        from here. I think my principal sensation on entering Indiana and getting
                        thus far was one of disappointment that nothing had happened, and worse,
                        nothing could happen. From here on it was even worse. It is all very well to
                        dream of revisiting your native soil and finding at least traces, if no
                        more, of your early world, but I tell you it is a dismal and painful
                        business. Life is a shifting and changing thing. Not only your own thoughts
                        and moods, but those of all others who endure, undergo a mighty alteration.
                        Houses and landscapes and people go by and return no more. The very land
                        itself changes. All that is left of what you were, or of what was, in your
                        own brain, is a dwindling and spindling thing.
                    Not many miles out from Warsaw, we passed through the town of Pierceton,
                        where lived two girls I barely knew at school, and here we picked up a
                        typical Hoosier, who, because we asked the road of the principal
                        storekeeper, volunteered to ride along and show us. "I'm
                        going for a couple of miles in that direction. If you don't mind
                        I'll get in and show you."
                    Franklin welcomed him. I objected to the shrewd type, a cross between a
                        country politician and a sales agent, who manages his errands in this way,
                        but I said nothing. He made himself comfortable alongside Speed and talked
                        to him principally the small change of country life.
                    As we sped along I began to feel an ugly resentment toward all life and
                        change, and the driving, destroying urge of things. The remorselessness of
                        time, how bitterly, irritatingly clear it stood out here! We talk about  the hardness and cruelty of men! Contrast
                        their sharpest, most brutal connivings with the slow, indifferent sapping of
                        strength and hope and joy which nature practices upon each and every one of
                        us. See the utter brutality with which every great dream is filched from the
                        mind, all the delicate, tendril-like responsiveness of youth is taken away,
                        your friends and pleasures and aspirations slain. I looked about me, and
                        beginning to recognize familiar soil, such as a long stretch of white road
                        ending in an old ice house, a railroad track out which I had walked, felt a
                        sudden, overpowering, almost sickening depression at the lapse of time and
                        all that had gone with it. Thirty years, nearly, had passed and with them
                        all the people and all the atmosphere that surrounded them, or nearly so,
                        and all my old intimacies and loves and romantic feelings. A dead world like
                        this is such a compound—a stained-glass window at its best; a bone yard at
                        its worst.
                    Approaching Warsaw after thirty years, my mind was busy gathering up a
                        thousand threads long since fallen and even rotting in the grass of time.
                        Here was the place, I said to myself, where we, the depleted portion of our
                        family that constituted "we" at the time, came to
                        stabilize our troubled fortunes and (it was my mother's idea) to
                        give the three youngest children, of whom I was one, an opportunity to get a
                        sensible American free school education. Hitherto our family (to introduce a
                        little private history) had been more or less under the domination of my
                        dogmatic father, who was a Catholic and a bigot. I never knew a narrower,
                        more hidebound religionist, nor one more tender and loving in his narrow
                        way. He was a crank, a tenth rate Saint Simon or Francis of Assisi, and yet
                        a charming person if it had been possible to get his mind off the subject of
                        religion for more than three seconds at a time. He worked, ate, played,
                        slept and dreamed religion. With no other thought than the sanctity and
                        glory and joy of the Catholic Church, he was constantly attempting to drive
                        a decidedly recalcitrant family into a similar point of view.
                    In the main (there were ten of us living) we would  none of it. The majority, by some trick of chemistry which
                        produces unheard of reactions in the strangest manner (though he and, to a
                        much less extent, my mother, were religiously minded) were caught fast by
                        the material, unreligious aspect of things. They were, one and all, mastered
                        by the pagan life stream which flows fresh and clean under all our religions
                        and all our views, moralistic and otherwise. It will have none of the petty
                        narrowing traps and gins wherewith the mistaken processes of the so-called
                        minds of some would seek to enslave it. Life will not be boxed in boxes. It
                        will not be wrapped and tied up with strings and set aside on a shelf to
                        await a particular religious or moral use. As yet we do not understand life,
                        we do not know what it is, what the laws are that govern it. At best we see
                        ourselves hobbling along, responding to this dream and that lust and unable
                        to compel ourselves to gainsay the fires and appetites and desires of our
                        bodies and minds. Some of these, in some of us, strangely enough (and purely
                        accidentally, of that I am convinced) conform to the current needs or
                        beliefs of a given society; and if we should be so fortunate as to find
                        ourselves in that society, we are by reason of these ideals, favorites,
                        statesmen, children of fortune, poets of the race. On the other hand, others
                        of us who do not and cannot conform (who are left-over phases of ancient
                        streams, perhaps, or portentous stri of new forces coming into play) are
                        looked upon as horrific, and to be stabilized, or standardized, and brought
                        into the normal systole-diastole of things. Those of us endowed with these
                        things in mind and blood are truly terrible to the mass—pariahs, failures,
                        shams, disgraces. Yet life is no better than its worst elements, no worse
                        than its best. Its perfections are changing temporalities, illusions of
                        perfection that will be something very different tomorrow. Again I say, we
                        do not know what life is—not nearly enough to set forth a fixed code of any
                        kind, religious or otherwise. But we do know that it sings and stings, that
                        it has perfections, entrancements shames—each according to his blood flux and
                        its chemical character.
                    
                    Life is rich, gorgeous, an opium eater's dream of something
                        paradisiacal—but it is never the thin thing that thin blood and a weak, ill
                        nourished, poorly responding brain would make it, and that is where the
                        majority of our religions, morals, rules and safeguards come from. From
                        thin, petered out blood, and poor, nervous, non-commanding weak brains.
                    Life is greater than anything we know.
                    It is stronger.
                    It is wilder.
                    It is more horrible.
                    It is more beautiful.
                    We need not stop and think we have found a solution. We have not even found a
                        beginning. We do not know. And my patriotic father wanted us all to believe
                        in the Catholic church and the infallibility of the Pope and confession and
                        communion!
                    Great Pan of the Greeks, and you, Isis of the Egyptians, save me! These
                        moderns are all insane!
                    But I was talking of the effect of the approach of Warsaw upon me. And I want
                        to get back to my mother, for she was the center of all my experiences here.
                        Such a woman! Truly, when I think of my mother I feel that I had best keep
                        silent. I certainly had one of the most perfect mothers ever a man had.
                        Warsaw, in fact, really means my mother to me, for here I first came to
                        partially understand her, to view her as a woman and to know how remarkable
                        she was. An open, uneducated, wondering, dreamy mind, none of the customary,
                        conscious principles with which so many conventional souls are afflicted. A
                        happy, hopeful, animal mother, with a desire to live, and not much
                        constructive ability wherewith to make real her dreams. A pagan mother taken
                        over into the Catholic Church at marriage, because she loved a Catholic and
                        would follow her love anywhere. A great poet mother, because she loved
                        fables and fairies and half believed in them, and once saw the Virgin Mary
                        standing in our garden (this was at Sullivan), blue robes,  crown and all, and was sure it was she! She
                        loved the trees and the flowers and the clouds and the sound of the wind,
                        and was wont to cry over tales of poverty almost as readily as over poverty
                        itself, and to laugh over the mannikin fol de rols of all too responsive
                        souls. A great hearted mother—loving, tender, charitable, who loved the
                        ne'er do well a little better than those staid favorites of society
                        who keep all laws. Her own children frequently complained of her errors and
                        tempers (what mortal ever failed so to do?) and forgot their own beams to be
                        annoyed by her motes. But at that they loved her, each and every one, and
                        could not stay away from her very long at a time, so potent and alive she
                        was.
                    I always say I know how great some souls can be because I know how splendid
                        that of my mother was. Hail, you! wherever you are!
                    In drawing near to Warsaw, I felt some of this as of a thousand other things
                        which had been at that time and now were no more.
                    We came in past the new outlying section of Winona, a region of summer homes,
                        boat houses and casinos scattered about a lake which in my day was entirely
                        surrounded by woods, green and still, and thence along a street which I
                        found out later was an extension of the very street on which we had
                        originally lived, only now very much lengthened to provide a road out to
                        Winona. Lined on either side by the most modern of cottages, these new style
                        verandaed, summer resorty things hung with swings and couch hammocks which
                        one sees at all the modern American watering places, it was too new and
                        smart to suit me exactly and carried with it no suggestion of anything that
                        I had been familiar with. A little farther on, though, it merged into
                        something that I did know. There were houses that looked as though they
                        might have endured all of forty years and been the same ones I had known as
                        the houses of some of my youthful companions. I tried to find the home of
                        Loretta Brown, for instance, who was killed a few years later in a wreck in
                             the West, and of Bertha Stillmayer, who
                        used to hold my youthful fancy, at a distance. I could not find them. There
                        was a church, also, at one corner, which I was almost sure I knew, and then
                        suddenly, as we neared another corner, I recognized two residences. One was
                        that of the principal lumber dealer of our town, a man who with his son and
                        daughter and a few other families constituted the lite, and next to it, the
                        home of the former owner of the principal dry goods store; very fine houses
                        both of them, and suggesting by their architecture and the arrangement of
                        their grounds all that at one time I thought was perfect—the topmost rung of
                        taste and respectability!
                    In my day these were very close to the business heart, but so was everything
                        in Warsaw then. In the first and better one, rather that of the wealthier of
                        the two men, for they were both very much alike in their physical details,
                        was, of all things, an automobile show room—an interesting establishment of
                        its kind, made possible, no doubt, by the presence of the prosperous summer
                        resort we had just passed. On the porch of this house and its once exclusive
                        walk were exhibition tires and posters of the latest automobiles. In the
                        other house, more precious to me still because of various memories, was the
                        present home of the local Knights of Pythias, an organization I surely need
                        not describe. In front of it hung a long, perpendicular glass sign or box,
                        which could be lighted from within by incandescent globes. The lettering was
                        merely "K. of P."
                    In years and years I cannot recall anything giving me a sharper wrench. I was
                        so surprised, although I was fully prepared not to be—not that I cared,
                        really, whether these houses had changed or not—I didn't. But in one
                        of them, the present home of the K. of P., had lived in my time the Yaisley
                        family, and this family was endeared to me, partly by its wealth (qualify
                        this by the inexperience of youth and our personal poverty) and partly by
                        the presence of Dora Yaisley, the youngest daughter, who was a girl of about
                        my own age, possibly younger, and  who, to me,
                        was so beautiful that I used to dream about her all the time. As a matter of
                        fact, from my fourteenth to my sixteenth year, from the first time I saw her
                        until a long time after I had seen her no more, she was the one girl whose
                        perfection I was sure of. Perhaps she would not be called beautiful by many.
                        No doubt, if I could see her today, she would not appeal to me at all. But
                        then—
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVI
                    WARSAW IN 1884-6
                    AND right here I began to ponder on the mystery of
                        association and contact, the chemistry and physics of transference by which
                        a sky or a scene becomes a delicious presence in the human brain or the
                        human blood, carried around for years in that mystic condition described as
                        "a memory" and later transferred, perhaps, or not, by
                        conversation, paint, music, or the written word, to the brains of others,
                        there to be carried around again and possibly extended in ever widening and
                        yet fading circles in accordance with that curious, so-called law (is it a
                        law?) of the transmutation of energy. That sounds so fine, that law of
                        transmutation, and yet it makes such short work of that other fine palaver
                        about the immortality of the soul. How many impressions have you transferred
                        in this way? How much of you has gone from you in this way and died? A thin
                        and pathetic end, I say, if all go on, being thinned and transmuted as they
                        go.
                    Warsaw was an idyllic town for a youth of my temperament and age to have been
                        brought to just at that time. It was so young, vigorous and hopeful. I
                        recall with never-ending delight the intense sense of beauty its surrounding
                        landscape gave me, its three lakes, the Tippecanoe River, which drained two
                        of them, the fine woods and roads and bathing places which lay in various
                        directions. People were always coming to Warsaw to shoot ducks in the
                        marshes about, or to fish or summer on the lakes. Its streets were graced
                        with many trees—they were still here in various places as we rode about
                        today, and not so much larger, as I could see, than when I was here years
                        before. The courthouse, new in my day, 
                        standing in an open square and built of white Indiana limestone, was as
                        imposing as ever, and, as we came upon it now turning; a corner, it seemed a
                        really handsome building, one of the few in towns of this size which I had
                        seen which I could honestly say I liked. The principal streets, Centre,
                        Buffalo and South, were better built, if anything, than in my time, and
                        actually wider than I had recalled them as being. They were imbued with a
                        spirit not different to that which I had felt while living here. Only on the
                        northwest corner of Centre and Buffalo Streets (the principal street corner
                        opposite this courthouse) where once had stood a bookstore, and next to that
                        a small restaurant with an oyster counter, and next to that a billiard and
                        pool room, the three constituting in themselves the principal meeting or
                        loafing place for the idle young of all ages, the clever workers, school
                        boys, clerks and what not of the entire town, and I presume county—all this
                        was entirely done away with, and in its place was a stiff, indifferent,
                        exclusive looking bank building of three stories in height, which gave no
                        least suggestion of an opportunity for such life as we had known to exist
                        here.
                    Where do the boys meet now, I asked myself, and what boys? I should like to
                        see. Why, this was the very center and axis of all youthful joy and life in
                        my day. There is a kind of freemasonry of generations which binds together
                        the youths of one season, plus those of a season or two elder, and a season
                        or two younger. At this corner, and in these places, to say nothing of the
                        village post office, Peter's Shoe Repairing and Shine Parlor, and
                        Moon's and Thompson's grocery stores, we of ages ranging
                        from fourteen to seventeen and eighteen—never beyond nineteen or twenty—knew
                        only those who fell within these masonic periods. To be of years not much
                        less nor more than these was the sine qua non of happy
                        companionship. To have a little money, to be In the high or common school
                        (upper grades), to have a little gaiety, wit, and intelligence, to be able
                        to think and  talk of girls in a clever,
                        flirtatious (albeit secretly nervous manner), were almost as seriously
                        essential.
                    A fellow by the name of Pierre (we always called him Peary) Morris ran this
                        bookstore, which was the most popular meeting place of all. Here, beginning
                        with the earliest days after our arrival, I recognized a sympathetic
                        atmosphere, though I was somewhat too young to share in it. My mother (my
                        father was still working in Terre Haute) placed us in what was known as the
                        West Ward School. It adjoined an old but very comfortable house we had
                        rented; the school yard and our yard touched. Here we dwelt for one year and
                        part of another, then moved directly across the street, south, into an old
                        brick house known as the Thralls Mansion, one of the first—as I understood
                        it, actually the first—brick house to be built in the
                        county years and years before. Here, in these two houses, we spent all the
                        time that I was in Warsaw. From the frame or "old Grant
                        house," I sallied each day to my studies of the seventh grade in
                        the school next door. From the Thralls house I accompanied my sister Tillie
                        each day to the high school, in the heart of the town, not far from this
                        court house, where I completed my work in the eighth grade and first year
                        high. I have (in spite of the fact that I have been myself all these years)
                        but a very poor conception of the type of youth I was, and yet I love him
                        dearly. For one thing, I know that he was a dreamer. For another, somewhat
                        cowardly, but still adventurous and willing, on most occasions, to take a
                        reasonable chance. For a third, he was definitely enthusiastic about girls
                        or beauty in the female form, and what was more, about beauty in all forms,
                        natural and otherwise. What clouds meant to him! What morning and evening
                        skies! What the murmur of the wind, the beauty of small sails on our lakes,
                        birds a-wing, the color and flaunt and rhythm of things!
                    Walking, playing, dreaming, studying, I had finally come to feel myself an
                        integral part of the group of youths, if not girls, who centered about this
                        bookstore  and this corner. Judson Morris, or
                        Jud Morris, as we called him, a hunchback, and the son of the proprietor,
                        was a fairly sympathetic and interesting friend. Frank Yaisley, the brother
                        of Dora, and two years older; George Reed, since elevated to a circuit
                        judgeship somewhere in the West; "Mick" or Will McConnell,
                        who died a few years later of lockjaw contracted by accidentally running a
                        rusty nail into his foot; Harry Croxton, subsequently a mining engineer who
                        died in Mexico and was buried there, and John and George Sharp, sons of the
                        local flour mill owner and grandnephews of my mother; Rutger Miller, Orren
                        Skiff, and various others were all of this group. There were still others of
                        an older group who belonged to the best families and somehow seemed to
                        exchange courtesies here and, in addition, members of a younger group than
                        ourselves, who were to succeed us, as freshman class succeeds freshman class
                        at college.
                    My joy in this small world and these small groups of youths, and what the
                        future held in store for us, was very great. As I figured it out, the whole
                        duty of men was to grow, get strong, eat, drink, sleep, get married, have
                        children and found a family, and so fulfill the Biblical injunction to
                        "multiply and replenish the earth." Even at this late date
                        I was dull to such things as fame, lives of artistic achievement, the
                        canniness and subtlety of wealth, and all such things, although I knew from
                        hearing everyone talk that one must and did get rich eventually if one
                        amounted to anything at all. A perfect, worldly wise dogma, but not truer,
                        really, than any other dogma.
                    But what a change was here, not so much materially as spiritually! Have you
                        ever picked up an empty beetle shell at the end of the summer—that pale,
                        transparent thing which once held a live and flying thing? Did it not bring
                        with it a sense of transmutation and lapse—the passing of all good things?
                        Here was this attractive small town, as brisk and gay as any other, no
                        doubt, but to me now how empty! Here in these streets, in the two houses in
                        which we had lived, in this corner bookstore and its  adjacent restaurant, in the West Ward and Central High
                        Schools, in the local Catholic Church where mass was said only once a month,
                        and in the post office, swimming holes, and on the lakes which surrounded us
                        like gems, had been spent the three happiest years of my boyhood.
                    Only the year before we came here I had been taken out of a Catholic school
                        at Evansville, Indiana. The public school was to me like a paradise after
                        the stern religiosity of this other school. Education began to mean
                        something to me. I wanted to read and to know. There was a lovely simplicity
                        about the whole public school world which had nothing binding or driving
                        about it. The children were urged, coaxed, pleaded with—not driven. Force was
                        a last resort, and rarely indulged in. Can't you see how it was
                        that I soon fell half in love with my first teacher, a big, soft,
                        pink-cheeked, buxom blonde, and with our home and our life here?
                    But I was concerned now only with this corner book store and how it looked
                        today. Coming out from New York, I kept thinking how it would look and how
                        the square would look and whether there would be any of the old atmosphere
                        about the schools or the lakes, or our two houses, or the houses of my
                        friends, or the Catholic Church or anything. I wanted to see our exhomes and
                        the schools and all these things. Turning into the square after passing the
                        first two houses mentioned, I looked at this corner, and here was this new
                        bank building and nothing more. It looked cold and remote. A through car of
                        a state-wide trolley system, which ran all the way from Michigan City and
                        Gary on Lake Michigan to Indianapolis, Evansville, Terre Haute, and other
                        places in the extreme south, stood over the way. There had been no street
                        car of any kind here in my day. The court house was the same, the store in
                        which Nueweiler's clothing store used to be (and because of Frank
                        Nueweiler, an elderly figure in "our crowd," one of our
                        rendezvous) was now a bookstore, the successor, really, to the one I was
                        looking for. The  post office had been moved
                        to a new store building erected by the government. (I think in every town we
                        passed we had found a new post office erected by the government.) The Harry
                        Oram wagon works was in exactly the same position at the northwest corner of
                        the square, only larger. There was no trace of Epstein's Wool, Hide
                        and Tallow Exchange, which had stood on another corner directly across the
                        way from the bookstore. A new building had replaced that. All
                        Epstein's children had gone to Chicago, so a neighboring hardware
                        clerk told me, and Epstein himself had died fifteen years before.
                    But what of the Yaisleys? What of the Yaisleys? I kept asking myself that.
                        Where had they gone? To satisfy myself as to that, before going any farther,
                        I went into this new bookstore in Nueweiler's old clothing
                        emporium, and asked the man who waited on me while I selected postcards.
                    "What became of the Nueweilers who used to run this place as a
                        clothing store?" I asked as a feeler, before going into the more
                        delicate matter of the Yaisleys.
                    "Nueweiler?" he replied, with an air of slight surprise.
                        "Why, he has the dry goods store at the next
                        corner—Yaisley's old place."
                    "Well, and what has become of Yaisley, then?"
                    "Oh, he died all of twenty years ago. You must be quite a stranger
                        about here."
                    "I am," I volunteered. "I used to live here, but I
                        haven't been here now for nearly thirty years, and that's
                        why I'm anxious to know. I used to know Frank and Will and Dora
                        Yaisley, and even her elder sister, Bertha, by sight, at
                        least."
                    "Oh, yes, Will Yaisley. There was an interesting case for
                        you," he observed reminiscently. "I remember him, though I
                        don't remember the others so well. I only came here in 1905, and he
                        was back here then. Why, he had been out West by then and had come back here
                        broke. His father was dead then, and the rest of the  family scattered. He was so down and out that he hung around
                        the saloons, doing odd jobs of cleaning and that sort of thing—and at other
                        times laid cement sidewalks."
                    "How old was he at that time, do you think?" I
                        inquired.
                    "Oh, about forty, I should say."
                    This unhappy end of Will Yaisley was all the more startling when I contrasted
                        it with what I had known of him (1884-1886). Then he was a youth of twenty
                        or twentyone or two, clerking in his father's store, which was the
                        largest in town, and living in this fine house which was now a K. of P.
                        Club. He was brisk and stocky and red-headed—his sister Dora had glints of
                        red in her hair—and, like the rest of this family, was vain and
                        supercilious.
                    Aphrodite had many devotees in this simple Christian village. The soil of the
                        town, its lakes and groves, seemed to generate a kind of madness in us all.
                        I recall that during the short time I was there, there was scandal after
                        scandal, and seemingly innocent sex attractions, which sprang up between
                        boys and girls whom I knew, ended disastrously after I had departed. One of
                        the boys already referred to was found, after he was dead, to have left a
                        pretty, oversexed school girl, whom I also knew, enceinte. The son of one of
                        the richest land owners and a brother of a very pretty school girl who sat
                        near me in first year high, was found, the year after I left, to have
                        seduced a lovely tall girl with fair hair and blue eyes, who lived only two
                        blocks from us. The story went round (it was retailed to me in Chicago) that
                        she got down on her knees to him (how should anyone have seen her do that?)
                        and on his refusing to marry her, committed suicide by swallowing poison.
                        Her death by suicide, and the fact that he had been courting her, were true
                        enough. I personally know of three other girls, all beauties, and all
                        feverish with desire (how keen is the natural urge to sex!) who were easily
                        persuaded, no doubt, and had to be sent away so that the scandal of  having a child at home, without having a
                        husband to vouch for it, might be hushed up.
                    Poor, dogma-bound humanity! How painfully we weave our way through the
                        mysteries, once desire has trapped us!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVII
                    THE OLD HOUSE
                    DORA Yaisley and her sister, insofar as I could learn this
                        day, had fared no better than some of the others. Indeed, life had slipped
                        along for all and made by generation, or many of the figures in it, at
                        least, seem like the decaying leaves that one finds under the new green
                        shoots and foliage of a later spring. Dora had married a lawyer from some
                        other town, so my gossip believed, but later, talking to another old
                        resident and one who remembered me, I was told that she had run away and
                        turned up married—to leave again and live in another place. As for another
                        beauty of my day, it was said that she had been seen in hotels in
                        Indianapolis and Fort Wayne with some man not her husband. The book man with
                        whom I first talked volunteered this information.
                    "But she's working now right here in Warsaw," he
                        volunteered a little later. "If you know her, you might go to see
                        her. I'm sure she'd be glad to see you. She
                        hasn't any relative around now."
                    "You don't say!" I exclaimed, astonished.
                        "Is she as good looking as ever?"
                    "No," he replied with a faint wryness of expression,
                        "she's not beautiful any more. She must be over forty. But
                        she's a very nice woman. I see her around here occasionally. She
                        goes regularly to my church."
                    After browsing here so long with this man, Franklin having gone to seek
                        something else, I returned to the car and requested that we proceed out
                        Centre Street to the second house in which we had lived—the Thralls
                        Mansion—that having been the most important and the more picturesque of the
                        two. On nearing it I was again surprised and indeed given a sharp, psychic
                        wrench which  endured for hours and
                        subsequently gave me a splitting headache. It was not gone, oh, no, not the
                        formal walls, but everything else was. Formerly, in my day, there had been a
                        large grove of pines here, with interludes, in one of which flourished five
                        chestnut trees, yielding us all the chestnuts we could use; in another a
                        group of orchard trees, apples, pears, peaches, cherries. The house itself
                        stood on a slope which led down to a pond of considerable size, on which of
                        a moonlight night, when our parents would not permit us to go farther, we
                        were wont to skate. On the other side of this pond, to the southeast of it,
                        was a saw and furniture mill, and about it, on at least two sides, were
                        scattered dozens upon dozens of oak, walnut and other varieties of logs,
                        stored here pending their use in the mill. Jumping logs was a favorite sport
                        of all us school boys from all parts of the town—getting poles and leaping
                        from pile to pile like flying squirrels. It was a regular Saturday morning
                        and week day evening performance, until our mother's or
                        sister's or brother's warning voices could be heard
                        calling us hence. From my bedroom window on the second floor, I could
                        contemplate this pond and field, hear the pleasant droning of the saw and
                        planes of the mill, and see the face of the town clock in the court house
                        tower, lighted at night, and hear the voice of its bell tolling the hours
                        regularly day and night.
                    This house found and has retained a place in my affections which has never
                        been disturbed by any other—and I have lived in many. It was so simple—two
                        stories on the north side, three on the south, where the hill declined
                        sharply, and containing eleven rooms and two cellar rooms, most convenient
                        to our kitchen and dining room.
                    It was, as I have said, a very old house. Even when we took it age had marred
                        it considerably. We had to replace certain window sashes and panes and fix
                        the chimney and patch the roof in several places where it leaked. The stairs
                        creaked. Being almost entirely surrounded by pines which sighed and
                        whispered continually,  it was supposed to be
                        damp but it was not. In grey or rainy weather the aspect of the whole place
                        was solemn, historic. In snowy or stormy weather, it took on a kind of
                        patriarchal significance. When the wind was high these thick, tall trees
                        swirled and danced in a wild ecstasy. When the snow was heavy they bent low
                        with their majestic plumes of white. Underneath them was a floor of soft
                        brown pine needles as soft and brown as a rug. We could gather basket upon
                        basket of resiny cones with which to start our morning fires. In spring and
                        summer these trees were full of birds, the grackle of blackbird
                        particularly, for these seemed to preempt the place early in March and were
                        inclined to fight others for possession. Nevertheless, robins, bluebirds,
                        wrens and other of the less aggressive feathers built their nests here. I
                        could always tell when spring was certainly at hand by the noise made by a
                        tree full of newly arrived blackbirds on some chill March morning. Though
                        snow might still be about, they were strutting about on the bits of lawn we
                        were able to maintain between groups of pines, or hopping on the branches of
                        trees, rasping out their odd speech.
                    But now, as we rolled out my familiar street, I noted that the sawmill was no
                        longer. The furniture factory had been converted into an electrical supply
                        works. Furthermore, the pond at the foot of our house was filled up, not a
                        trace of it remaining, and all saw logs, of course, long since cleaned away.
                        Worse and worse, the pine grove had disappeared completely. In the front or
                        west part of our premises now stood two new houses of a commonplace
                        character, with considerable lawn space about them, but not a tree. And
                        there had been so many fine ones! Furthermore, the ground about the house
                        proper was stripped bare, save for one lone crab apple tree which stood near
                        our north side door. It was still vigorous, and the ground under it was
                        littered with bright red-yellow crabs which were being allowed to decay.
                        From the front door, which once looked out upon a long cobble and brick
                        walk, which ran between double  rows of pine
                        trees to our very distant gate (all gone now) protruded a sign which read,
                        "Saws Filed." A path ran from this door southward over the
                        very pond on which we used to skate! Near at hand was the "old
                        Grant house" in which we had lived before we moved into this one,
                        and it was still there, only it had been moved over closer to the school and
                        another house crowded in beside it, on what was once our somewhat spacious
                        lawn. The old school lawn, which once led down to the street that passed its
                        gate, was gone, and instead this street came up to the school door, meeting
                        the one which had formerly passed our house and ended at a stile, giving on
                        to the school lawn. The school yard trees were gone, and facing the new
                        street made of the old school lawn were houses. Only our old Thralls house
                        remained standing as it was, on the right hand side.
                    I can only repeat that I was psychically wrenched, although I was saying to
                        myself that I felt no least interest in the visible scene. I had lived here,
                        true, but what of it? There was this of it, that somewhere down in myself,
                        far below my surface emotions and my frothy reasoning faculties, something
                        was hurting. It was not I, exactly. It was like something else that had once
                        been me and was still in me, somewhere, another person or soul that was
                        grieving, but was now overlayed or shut away like a ghost in a sealed room.
                        I felt it the while I bustled about examining this and
                        that detail.
                    First I went up to the old house and walked about it trying to replace each
                        detail as it was, and as I did so, restoring to my mind scene after scene
                        and mood after mood of my younger days. What becomes of old scenes and old
                        moods in cosmic substance? Here had been the pump, and here it was still,
                        thank heaven, unchanged. Here, under a wide-armed fir which once stood here,
                        Ed, Al, Tillie and I had once taken turns stirring a huge iron pot full of
                        apple butter which was boiling over pine twigs and cones, and also gathered
                        cones to keep it going. Here, also, to the right of the front door as you
                             faced west, was my favorite lounging
                        place, a hammock strung between two trees, where of a summer day, or when
                        the weather was favorable at any time, I used to lie and read, looking up
                        between times through the branches of the trees to the sky overhead and
                        wondering over and rejoicing in the beauty of life. We were poor in the
                        main, and, worse yet, because of certain early errors of some of the
                        children (how many have I committed since!) and the foolish imaginings of my
                        parents, my father in particular, we considered ourselves socially
                        discredited. We hadn't done so well as some people. We
                        weren't rich. Some of us hadn't been good!! But in books
                        and nature, even at this age, I managed to find solace for all our fancied
                        shortcomings, or nearly all, and though I grieved to think that we had so
                        little of what seemed to give others so much pleasure, and the right to
                        strut and stare, I also fancied that life must and probably did hold
                        something better for me than was indicated here.
                    After I had made the rounds once, Franklin sitting in the offing in his car
                        and sketching the house, I knocked at the front door and received no answer.
                        Finally I went inside and knocked at the first inside door, which originally
                        gave into our parlor. The place looked really very tatterdemalion, like an
                        isolated Eleventh Avenue, New York, tenement. No one answered, but finally
                        from what was formerly my sister Theresa's room, on the second
                        floor, a stocky and somewhat frowsy woman of plainly Slavic origin put her
                        head over the balustrade of the handsome old carved walnut staircase, and
                        called, "Well?"
                    "I beg your pardon," I said, "but once, a number
                        of years ago, our family used to live in this house, and I have come back to
                        look it over. Can you tell me who occupies it now?"
                    "Well, no one family has it now," she replied pleasantly on
                        hearing of my mission. "There are four families in it, two on this
                        floor up here, one on that floor (indicating) and one in the basement. The
                        people on the first floor rent that front room to a boarder."
                    
                    "A tenement!" I exclaimed to myself.
                    "Well, there doesn't appear to be anyone at home
                        here," I said to her. "Do you mind if I look at your
                        rooms? The room at the end of the hall there was once my sleeping
                        room."
                    "Oh, not at all. Certainly. Certainly. Come right up."
                    I mounted the stairs, now creakier than ever, and entered a room which in our
                        day seemed comparatively well furnished. It was memorable to me because of a
                        serious siege of illness which my sister, Theresa, had undergone there, and
                        because of several nights in which I had tried to sit up and keep watch.
                        Once from this room, at two in the morning, I had issued forth to find our
                        family physician, an old, grey-bearded man, who, once I had knocked him up,
                        came down to his door, lamp in hand, a long white nightgown protecting his
                        stocky figure, his whiskers spreading like a sheaf of wheat, and demanded to
                        know what I meant by disturbing him.
                    "But, doctor," I said timorously, "she's
                        very sick. She has a high fever. She asked me to beg you to come right
                        away."
                    "A high fever! Shucks! Wasn't I just there at four? Here I
                        am, an old man, needing my sleep, and I never get a decent night's
                        rest. It's always the way. As though I didn't know.
                        Suppose she has a little fever. It won't hurt her."
                    "But will you come, doctor?" I pleaded, knowing full well
                        that he would, although he had begun irritably to close the door.
                    "Yes, I'll come. Of course I'll come, though I
                        know it isn't a bit necessary. You run on back. I'll be
                        there."
                    I hurried away through the dark, a little fearful of the silent streets, and
                        presently he came, fussing and fuming at the inconsiderateness of some
                        people.
                    I always think of old Dr. Woolley as being one of the nicest, kindest old
                        doctors that ever was.
                    But now this room, instead of being a happy combination  of bed room and study, was a kitchen, dining room and living
                        room combined. There were prints and pots and pans hung on the walls, and no
                        carpet, and a big iron cook stove and a plain deal table and various chairs
                        and boxes, all very humble and old. But the place was clean, I was glad to
                        see, and the warm, August sun was streaming through the west windows, a
                        cheering sight. I missed the sheltering pine boughs outside, and was just
                        thinking "how different" and asking myself "what
                        is time, anyhow" when there came up the stairs a Slavic workingman
                        of small but vigorous build. He had on grey jean trousers and a blue shirt,
                        and carried a bucket and a shovel.
                    "The gentleman once lived in this house. He's come back to
                        see it," explained his wife courteously.
                    "Well, I suppose it's changed, eh?" he
                        replied.
                    "Oh, very much," I sighed. "I used to sleep in
                        this end bedroom as a boy."
                    "Well, you'll find another boy sleeping there if you
                        look," he said, opening the door, and as he did so I saw a small,
                        chubby, curly-haired boy of four or five snoozing on his pillow, his face
                        turned away from the golden sun which poured into the room. The beauty of it
                        touched me deeply. It brought back the lapse of time with a crash.
                    How nature dashes its generations of new childhood against the beaches of
                        this old, old world, I thought. Our little day in the sun is so short. Our
                        tenure of the things of earth so brief. And we fight over land and buildings
                        and position. To my host and hostess I said, "beautiful,"
                        and then that whimpering thing in the sealed room began to cry and I hurried
                        down the stairs.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVIII
                    DAY DREAMS
                    BUT I could not bear to tear myself away so swiftly. I
                        went round to the side door on the north side, where often of a morning,
                        before going to school, or of an afternoon, after school, or of a Saturday
                        or Sunday, I was wont to sit and rock and look out at the grass and trees.
                        As I see it now, I must have been a very peculiar youth, a dreamer, for I
                        loved to sit and dream all the while. Just outside this door was the one
                        best patch of lawn we possessed, very smooth and green. In late October and
                        early November days it was most wonderful to me to sit and look at the
                        leaves falling from the trees and think on the recurrent spectacles of
                        spring, summer, autumn and winter, and wonder at the beauty and fragrance
                        and hope of life. Everything was before me then. That is the great riches
                        and advantage of youth. Experience was still to come—love, travel, knowledge,
                        friends, the spectacle and stress of life. As age creeps on one says to
                        one's self, Well, I will never do that any more—or that—or that. I
                        did it once, but now it would not be interesting. The joy of its being a new
                        thing is gone once and for all.
                    And so now, as I looked at this door, the thought of all this came upon me
                        most forcibly. I could actually see myself sitting there in an old rocking
                        chair, with my books on my knees, waiting to hear the last school bell ring,
                        which would give me just fifteen minutes in which to get to school. It was
                        all so perfect. Knowledge was such a solution—were they not always telling me
                        so? If one studied one could find out about life, I thought. Somebody must
                        know. Somebody did know. Weren't there books here on every hand,
                        and schools and teachers to teach us?
                    
                    And there was my mother, slipping about in her old grey dress working for us,
                        for me, and wishing so wistfully that life might do better for us all. What
                        a wonderful woman she was, and how I really adored her—only I think she never
                        quite understood me, or what I represented. She was so truly earnest in her
                        efforts for us all, so eager for more life for each and every one. I can see
                        her now with her large, round grey eyes, her placid face, her hopeful,
                        wistful, tender expression! Dear, dear soul! Sweet dreamer of vagrom dreams!
                        In my heart is an altar. It is of jasper and chalcedony and set with
                        precious stones. Before it hangs a light, the lamp of memory, and to that
                        casket which holds your poet's soul, I offer, daily, attar and
                        bergamot and musk and myrrh. As I write, you must know. As I write, you must
                        understand. Your shrine is ever fragrant here.
                    Inside this door, when I knocked, I found a two-room apartment not much
                        better than that of my Slavic friends upstairs. Although the young married
                        woman, a mere girl, who opened the door, spoke English plainly, she seemed
                        of marked Hungarian extraction, an American revision of the European
                        peasant, but with most of the old world worn off. I had never been familiar
                        with this type in my day. There was a baby here and a clutter of nondescript
                        things—colored calendars and chromos on the walls; clap-trap instalment-sold
                        furniture and the like. I made my very best bow, which is never a very
                        graceful one, and explained why I was here. The young woman was sympathetic.
                        Wouldn't I come right in?
                    "So this is the room," I said, standing in the first one.
                        "My mother used to use this as a living room, and this (I walked
                        into the next one, looking south over the vanished pond to the courthouse
                        tower) as a sewing room. There was always such a fine morning light
                        here."
                    "Yes, there is," she replied.
                    As I stood here, a host of memories crowded upon me. I might as well have
                        been surrounded by spirits of  an older day
                        suggesting former things. There sat my father by that window, reading, in
                        the morning, when he was not working, the Lives of the Saints; in the
                        evening the Chicago Daily News or Die
                            Wahrheit's Freund, issued in Cincinnati, or Die Waisenfreund, issued in Dayton. A hardy, industrious man he
                        was, so religious that he was ridiculous to me even at that time. He carried
                        no weight with me, though he had the power and authority to make me and
                        nearly all the others obey. I was aways doubtful as to just how far his
                        temper and fuming rages would carry him. As for my mother, she usually sat
                        in a rocking chair close to this very north door, which looked out on the
                        grass, to read. Her favorite publications were Leslie's Magazine and Godey's Lady
                            Book, or some of the newer but then not startlingly brilliant
                            magazines—Scribner's or Harper's. For my part I preferred Truth, or Life, or Puck, or Judge, publications which had been introduced into our
                        family by my brother Paul when we were living in Evansville. At this time I
                        had found Dickens, Scott, Thackeray, Hawthorne, Fielding, Defoe, and a score
                        of others, and had been reading, reading, reading, swiftly and with
                        enjoyment. Cooper, Irving and Lew Wallace ("Ben Hur" at
                        least) were a part of my mental pabulum. From the public library I drew
                        Dryden, Pope, Shakespeare, Herrick and a dozen other English and American
                        poets, and brought them here. I was so keenly interested in love at this
                        time—so inoculated with the virus of the ideal in the shape of physical
                        beauty—that any least passage in Dryden, Herrick, Pope, Shakespeare, held me
                        as in a vise. I loved the beauty of girls. A face piquant in its delicacy,
                        with pink cheeks, light or dark eyes, long lashes—how I tingled at the import
                        of it! Girlhood ravished me. It set my brain and my blood aflame. I was
                        living in some ecstatic realm which had little if anything in common with
                        the humdrum life about me, and yet it had. Any picture or paragraph anywhere
                        which referred to or hinted at love lifted me up into, the empyrean. I was
                        like that nun in Davidson's poem to whom the  thought of how others sinned was so moving. I never tired of
                        hauling out and secretly reading and rereading every thought and sentence
                        that had a suggestive, poetic turn in relation to love.
                    I can see some asinine moralist now preparing to rise and make a few remarks.
                        My comment is that I despise the frozen, perverted religiosity which would
                        make a sin of sex. Imagine the torture, the pains, the miseries which have
                        ensued since self immolation has been raised to a virtue and a duty. Think
                        of it—healthy animals all of us, or we ought to be—and it is a crime to think
                        of love and sex!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIX
                    THE KISS OF FAIR GUSTA
                    STANDING in this room, looking at the place where our open
                        fire used to be, but which was now closed up and a cooking stove
                        substituted, and at the window where I often sat of a morning
                        "studying" history, physical geography, geography,
                        physiology, botany, and waiting for breakfast, or if it were afternoon and
                        after school, for dinner, I asked myself, if I could, would I restore it
                        all—and my answer was unhesitatingly yes. I have seen a great many things in
                        my time, done a lot of dull ones, suffered intense shames, disgraces and
                        privations, but all taken into account and notwithstanding, I would gladly
                        be born again and do it all over, so much have I loved the life I have been
                        permitted to live. Here, at this time, I was suffering from a boyish
                        bashfulness which made me afraid of every girl. I was following this girl
                        and that, nearly every beautiful one of my own age, with hungry eyes, too
                        timid to speak, and yet as much as I longed and suffered on that account, I
                        now said to myself I would gladly have it all back. I asked myself would I
                        have mother and father, and my sisters and brothers, and all our old
                        relatives and friends back as I knew them here, and my answer was, if it
                        would not be an injustice to them, and if I could be as I was then and stand
                        in the same unwitting relationship, yes. Life was intensely beautiful to me
                        here. For all its drawbacks of money and clothes and friends it was nearly
                        perfect. I was all but too happy, ecstatic, drunk with the spirit of all
                        young and new things. If I were to have even more pain than I had, I think I
                        would undertake it all gladly again.
                    The woman who permitted me to linger in these two  rooms a few minutes informed me that the man who occupied the
                        rooms just overhead—those back of the day laborer—was the same whose sign,
                        "Saws Filed," protruded from the front door.
                        "It's Mr. Gridley and his boy. He isn't in yet, I
                        think. He usually comes in, though, about this time. If you want to wait,
                        I'm sure he'll be glad to let you see his
                        rooms."
                    She spoke as if she knew Mr. Gridley, and I had the feeling from her very
                        assuring words that he must be a pleasant and accommodating character.
                    As I went out and around to the front door again to have one more look, I saw
                        an old man approaching across the quondam pond, carrying a small saw, and I
                        felt sure, at sight of him, that it was Mr. Gridley. He was tall, emaciated,
                        stoop shouldered, a pleasant and even conciliatory type, whose leathern
                        cheeks and sunken eyes combined with a simple, unaffected and somewhat tired
                        manner seemed to suggest one to whom life had done much, but whose courage,
                        gentleness and patience were not by any means as yet exhausted. As he came
                        up I observed:
                    "This isn't Mr. Gridley, is it?"
                    "Yes, sir," he smiled. "What can I do for
                        you?"
                    "You live in the rear rooms upstairs, I believe. My family used to
                        live here, years ago. I wonder if you would mind my looking in for a moment.
                        I merely want to see—for old time's sake."
                    His face warmed sympathetically.
                    "Come right up, neighbor," he volunteered.
                        "I'll be only too glad to let you see. You'll
                        have to excuse the looks of the place. My son and I live here alone,
                        bachelor style. I've been out in the country today with him
                        hunting. He's only fifteen years old."
                    We ascended the stairs, and he unlocked the door to my old rooms and let me
                        in—the rooms where Ed and I and Tillie (or whichever other brother or sister
                        happened to be here at the time) were separately provided for. It was a
                        suite of three rooms, one large and two small, opening out on the north,
                        east, and south, via windows to the garden below. In summer, and even in
                        winter,  these rooms were always ideal, warmed
                        as they were by an open fire, but in summer they were especially cool and
                        refreshing, there being an attic above which broke the heat—delightful
                        chambers in which to read or sleep. We never had much furniture (a blessing,
                        I take it, because of the sense of space which results) but what we had was
                        comfortable enough and ample for all our needs. In my day there was a bed
                        and a dressing stand and mirror in each of these rooms, and then chairs, and
                        in the larger room of the three, quite double the size of the other two, a
                        square reading table of cheap oak by which I used to sit and work at times,
                        getting my lessons. In the main it was a delight to sit here of a hot summer
                        day, looking out on the surrounding world and the trees, and reading
                        betimes. Here I read Shakespeare and a part of Macaulay's
                        "History of England" and Taine's
                        "History of English Literature" and a part of
                        Guizot's "History of France." I was not an
                        omnivorous reader—just a slow, idle, rambling one—but these rooms and these
                        books, and the thought of happy days to come, made it all a wonder world to
                        me. We had enough to live on. The problem of financing our lives was not as
                        yet distracting me. I longed for a little money, but not much, and life,
                        life, life—all its brilliant pyrotechnic meanings—was before me, still to
                        come.
                    "It's not very tidy in here," said my host,
                        apologetically, as he opened the door. "Take a chair, neighbor. We
                        live as though we were camping out. Ever since my wife died and my oldest
                        boy went into the navy, I stopped trying to keep house much. Me and
                        Harry—that's my youngest boy—take pot luck here. We do our own
                        house-keeping. I've just suffered a great blow in the death of my
                        oldest boy over at the Dardanelles. When he left the navy he went into the
                        Australian Army, and they made him a captain and then when this war broke
                        out his company was sent to the Dardanelles and he went along and has just
                        been killed over there."
                    "It's very sad," I said, looking about at the
                        beggarly and disorderly furniture. In one room I could see a  shabbily gotten up and unmade bed. In this
                        room was an iron cook stove, pots and pans, a litter of guns, saws, fishing
                        poles, and the like.
                    "Yes," went on my host heavily, and with a keen narrative
                        sense which was very pleasing to listen to, "he was an extra fine
                        boy, really. He graduated here at the high school before he went into the
                        marines, and stood high in all his classes. Everybody liked him,—a nice,
                        straight-talking young fellow, if I do say it."
                    He arose, crossed to an old yellow bureau, and took out a picture of a young
                        fellow of about twentysix or twentyeight, in the uniform of an Australian
                        captain of infantry.
                    "The way he came to get into the Australian Army," he went
                        on, looking fondly at the picture, "was—he was over there with one
                        of our ships and they took a liking to him and offered him more pay. He was
                        always a great fellow for athletics and he used to send me pictures of
                        himself as amateur champion of this or that ship, boxing. They got his
                        regiment over there on that peninsula, and just mowed it down, I hear. You
                        know," he said suddenly, his voice beginning to tremble and break,
                        "I just can't believe it. I had a letter from him only
                        three weeks ago saying how fine he was feeling, and how interesting it all
                        was.—And now he's dead."
                    A hot tear fell on a wrinkled hand.
                    "Yes, I know," I replied, moved at last. I had been so
                        interested in my own connection with this place and the memories that were
                        swarming upon me that I had been overlooking his. I now felt very sorry for
                        him.
                    "You know," he persisted, surveying me with aged and
                        wrinkled eyes, "he wasn't just an ordinary boy. I have
                        letters here"—and now he fumbled around for something
                        else—"from Lord Kitchener and the King and Queen of England and the
                        Colonel of his regiment." (His voice broke completely, but after a
                        time he went on:) "They all said what a fine fellow he was and what
                        a loss his death is. It's pretty hard when you're so fond
                        of anybody."
                    
                    He stopped, and I had difficulty in restraining a tendency to cry a little
                        myself. When one gets so old and a boy is so precious—!
                    He rubbed his nose with the back of his hand, while I read the formal
                        acknowledgments of Colonel Barclay Sattersley, D.S.O., of Field Marshal Earl
                        Kitchener, K.G., Secretary of State for War, and of Their Majesties, the
                        King and Queen, formal policy letters all, intended to assuage all
                        brokenhearted contributors to the great war. But it all rang very futile and
                        hollow to me. The phrases of the ruling classes of England rattle like
                        whitening bones of dead souls, anyhow.
                    "You know," he added, after a time, "I
                        can't help thinking that there's been an awful mistake
                        made about that whole thing down there. His letters told me what a hard time
                        they had landing, and how the trenches were just full of dead boys after
                        every charge. It seems to me they might have found some other way. It looks
                        terribly heartless to let whole regiments be wiped out."
                    I learned a great deal about Warsaw and its environs from this man, for he
                        had lived in this county and near here all his life. This house, as he
                        described it, had been here since 1848 or thereabouts. The original owner
                        and builder had been a judge at one time, but a loss of fortune and ill
                        health had compelled him to part with it. His oldest and most intelligent
                        son had been a wastrel. He occasionally came to Warsaw to look at this very
                        house, as he had once, in our day, and to my surprise he told me he was here
                        now, in town, loafing about the place—an old man. The houses in front had
                        been built only a year before, so if I had come a year earlier I would still
                        have seen the ground space about as it was, all the old trees still
                        standing. The trees had all been cut down thirteen months before! The Grant
                        house, in which we had first lived here, had been moved over about five
                        years before. The school yard had been cut away about seven years before,
                        and so it went. I asked him about George and John Sharp, Odin Old-father,
                        Pet Wall, Vesta Switzer, Myrtle Taylor, Judson  Morris, and so on—boys and girls with whom I had gone to school. Of some
                        he knew a little something; of others he imagined his youngest boy Harry
                        might know. Through his eyes and his words I began to see what a long way I
                        had come, and how my life was rounding out into something different and
                        disturbingly remote from all I had ever known. I felt as though I were in a
                        tomb or a garden of wraiths and shadows.
                    But if I was depressed here, I was even more so when I came to study the
                        Grant house and the school itself. The former having been inhabited when my
                        mind was in its most formative period, I was struck by the fact that nearly
                        all its then pleasing traces had been obliterated. There was a tree outside
                        the kitchen door from which a swing had once been suspended, and where of a
                        morning or an evening I used to sit and meditate, admiring the skies, the
                        schoolhouse tower, the trees, the freshness of the year. Swing and tree were
                        gone, the house having been moved, and even a longish, parallel window
                        through which, so often, I could see my mother cooking or working at
                        something in the kitchen, had been done over into something else and was now
                        no more. There had been a medium sized, handsome spear pine in the shade of
                        which I used to lie and read of a summer ("Water Babies,"
                        "Westward Ho," "The Scarlet Letter" and
                        "The House of the Seven Gables," to say nothing of much of
                        Irving and Goldsmith). It was gone. It was around this tree that once, of a
                        late November evening not long after we had arrived here and I had been
                        placed in the public school, that I was chased by Augusta Nueweiler (the
                        daughter of the clothier who now owned the dry goods store once owned by
                        Yaisley) in a determined desire to kiss me; which she succeeded in doing. If
                        you will believe it, although I was thirteen years of age, I had never been
                        kissed before. Why she had been attracted to me I do not know. She was plump
                        and pretty, with a cap of short, dark ringlets swirling about her eyes and
                        ears, and a red and brown  complexion, and an
                        open, pretty mouth. I thought she was very beautiful.
                    Back of this house had been a large garden or truck patch, which we planted
                        richly that first summer, and back of that again, a grove of tall ash trees
                        two acres in extent. To this, during that first summer and winter, I had
                        been wont to repair in order to climb the trees and look out upon a large
                        marsh (it seemed large to me at that time) which contained, as its principal
                        feature, the winding Tippecanoe River or creek, making silvery S's
                        between the tall sedges and their brown cat tails. It was a delightful sight
                        to me then. I used to climb so high (all alone and often) that the wind
                        would easily rock the tall spear to which I was clinging, and then it seemed
                        as though I were a part of heaven and the winds and all rhythmic and
                        colorful elements above man—elements which had no part or share with him.
                    It was to this grove that my brother Ed and I once repaired of a Saturday
                        morning after a Friday night party—our very first—at which a kissing game had
                        been played and we had been kissed. Life was just dawning upon us as a
                        garden of flowers, in which girls were the flowers. We had already been
                        commenting on various girls at school during the past two or three months,
                        learning to talk about and discriminate between them, and now, at this
                        party, given at the house of one girl whom I thought to be the most perfect
                        of all, we had been able to see twenty or thirty, decked in fineries so
                        delicate and entrancing, that I was quite beside myself. All the girls,
                        really, that we had come to single out as beautiful were there—wonderful
                        girls, to my entranced eyes—and each of us, as it happened, had been called
                        in to be kissed by girls to whom we had scarce dared to lift our eyes
                        before. It was all in the game, and not to be repeated afterward. The
                        moralists tell us that such games are pernicious and infective in their
                        influence, but to memory they are entrancing. Whatever it is that is making
                        life—throwing us on a screen of ether quite as moving pictures are thrown on
                        canvas, to strut through  our little parts—its
                        supremest achievements, so far, are occasions such as I have been
                        describing—moments in which the blood of youth in a boy speaks to its fellow
                        atoms in the body of a girl and produces that astonishing reaction which
                        causes the cheeks to mantle, the eyes to sparkle or burn, the heart to beat
                        faster, the lungs to become suffocatingly slow in their labors.
                    On this particular morning, sitting in this grove now no longer present and
                        sawing a log of wood which was ours, Ed and I tried to recall how wonderful
                        it had been and how we felt, but it was scarcely possible. It could not be
                        done. Instead, we merely glowed and shivered with the memory of intense
                        emotions. And today it comes back as astonishing and perfect as ever—a
                        chemical state, a rich, phantasmagoric memory, and never to be recaptured. I
                        have changed too much. All of us of that day have changed too much.
                    I saw Ed on the street not long ago and his hair was slightly grey and he was
                        heavy and mature. Having been here, I was tempted to ask him whether he
                        remembered, but I refrained because I half fancied that he would not, or
                        that he would comment on it from a lately acquired religious point of
                        view—and then we might have quarreled.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XL
                    OLD HAUNTS AND OLD DREAMS
                    BUT the school next door gave me the cruellest shock of
                        all. I went into it because, it being mid August, the preliminary autumn
                        repairs were under way and the place was open. Workingmen were scattered
                        about—carpenters, painters, glaziers. I had no idea how sound my memory was
                        for these old scenes until I stepped inside the door and saw the closets
                        where we used to hang our hats and coats on our nails and
                        walked up the stairs to the seventh grade room, which is the one in which I
                        had been placed on our arrival in Warsaw.
                    Here it was, just as I had left it, apparently—the same walls, the same
                        benches, the same teacher's table. But how small the benches had
                        grown, scarcely large enough for me to squeeze into now, even though I
                        allowed for a tight fit! The ceiling and walls seemed not nearly so high or
                        so far as they had once seemed. At that very table sat Mae Calvert, our
                        teacher—dead now, so someone told me later—a blooming girl of nineteen or
                        twenty who at that time seemed one of the most entrancing creatures in all
                        the world. She had such fine blue eyes, such light brown hair, such a
                        rounded, healthy, vigorous body. And she had been so fond of me. Once,
                        sitting at my little desk (it was the fifth from the front in the second
                        aisle, counting from the west side of the room), she paused and put her hand
                        on my head and cheek, pinching my neck and ear, and I colored the while I
                        thrilled with pleasure. You see, hitherto, I had been trained in a Catholic
                        school, what little I had been, and the process had proved most
                        depressing—black garbed, straight laced nuns. But here in this warm, friendly
                        room, with girls who were attractive and boys who were for the  larger part genial and companionable, and
                        with a teacher who took an interest in me, I felt as though I were in a kind
                        of school paradise, the Nirvana of the compulsorily trained.
                    Another time (it was in reading class) she asked me to read a paragraph and
                        when I had and paused, she said: "I can't tell you how
                        beautifully you read, Theodore. It is so natural; you make everything so
                        real." I blushed again, for I felt for the moment by some odd
                        transposition that she was making fun of me. When I looked up into her face
                        and saw her eyes—the way in which she looked at me—I understood. She was
                        actually fond of me.
                    At later times and in various ways during this year she drew me out of an
                        intense dreamy shyness by watching over me, expending an affection which I
                        scarcely knew how to take. She would occasionally keep me after school to
                        help me with my grammar—a profound mystery, no least rudiment of which I ever
                        mastered—and when she gradually discovered that I knew absolutely nothing
                        concerning it, she merely looked at me and pinched my cheek.
                    "Well, don't you worry; you can get along without grammar
                        for a while yet. You'll understand it later on."
                    She passed me in all my examinations, regardless I presume, though I have
                        reason to believe that I was highly intelligent in respect to some things.
                        At the end of the year, when we were clearing up our papers and I was
                        getting ready to leave, she put her arms about me and kissed me goodbye. I
                        remember the day, the warm, spring sunlit afternoon, the beauty and the
                        haunting sense of the waning of things that possessed me at the time. I went
                        home, to think and wonder about her.
                    I saw her a year or so later, a much stouter person, married and with a baby,
                        and I remember being very shocked. She didn't seem the same, but
                        she remembered me and smiled on me. For my part, not having seen her for so
                        long a time, I felt very strange and bashful— 
                        almost as though I were in the presence of one I had never known.
                    But the feeling which I had here today passed over this last unheeded. It
                        concerned only the particular days in which I was here, the days of a new
                        birth and freedom from horrific Spartan restraint, plus the overawing weight
                        of the lapse of time. Never before I think, certainly not since my
                        mother's death, was I so impressed by the lapse of time, the
                        diaphanous nothingness of things. I was here thirtytwo years before and all
                        that I saw then had body and substance—a glaring material state. Here was
                        some of the same material, the same sunlight, a few of the same people,
                        perhaps, but time had filched away nearly all our characteristics. That
                        boy—was his spiritual substance inside of me still unchanged, merely overlaid
                        by experience like the heart of a palm? I could not even answer that to
                        myself. The soul within me could not say. And at least foursevenths of my
                        allotted three score years and ten had gone.
                    Down the street from this school about five doors was another house which was
                        very familiar. I went up the narrow brick walk and knocked. A tall, lean,
                        sallow creature of no particular figure but with piercing black eyes and
                        long, thin hands came to the door. Her hair, once jet black, was thinly
                        streaked with grey. She must have been all of thirtyfive or forty when I
                        knew her as a boy. That made her sixtyfive or seventy now; yet I could see
                        no particular change, so vigorous and energetic was she.
                    "Well, Ed," she exclaimed, "or is it Theodore?
                        Well, of all things! Come right in here. I'm glad to see you. Land
                        o' goodness! And Nate will be pleased to death. Nate!
                        Nate!" she called into an adjoining room. "Come in here.
                        If here isn't Theodore—or is it Ed?"
                        ("It's Theodore," I interjected quickly.)
                        "You know it's been so long since I've seen you
                        two I can scarcely tell you apart. But I remember both as well as if it were
                        yesterday. And it's been—let me see—how long has it been? Nearly
                        thirty years now, hasn't it? Well, of all things!  I do declare! And you're getting
                        stout, too. And you've grown to be over six feet, at least. Well, I
                        do declare! To think of your walking in on me like this. Just you sit right
                        down here and make yourself comfortable. Well, of all things!"
                    By now I must have been smiling like a Cheshire cat.
                    Nate, or Nathaniel, one-time carpenter and builder (and still such, for all I
                        know), strolled in. It was late in the afternoon, and he was lounging about
                        in a white cotton shirt and grey trousers, his suspenders down about his
                        hips, a pipe in his mouth and an evening paper in his hand.
                    "Well, Dorse," he called, "where do you come
                        from?"
                    I told him.
                    "Think of that, now," exclaimed Mrs. McConnell,
                        "and a car! And you came all the way through from New York? Well,
                        lots of them do that now. Charlie Biggers went through from here to
                        Pennsylvania in a Ford not long ago."
                    She cackled stridently. I was fascinated by her vigor in age.
                    "Nate here," she went on, "says he thinks we ought
                        to get a machine one of these days, but lawsie! I don't know
                        whether I could learn to run it, and I'm certain he couldn't." Her keen birdlike eyes devoured
                        me, and she smiled. "And so you're a writer? Well, what do
                        you write? Novels?"
                    "Well, some people condescend to call them that," I
                        answered. "I'd hesitate to tell you what some others call
                        them."
                    "It's funny I never heard of any of 'em.
                        What's the names of some of 'em?"
                    I enlightened her.
                    "Well, now, that's strange. I never heard of a one of them—I
                        must get two or three and see how you write."
                    "That's good of you," I chuckled, in the best of
                        spirits.
                    "Bertie Wilkerson—you remember Bertie, don't you?—he was the
                        son of the justice of the peace here—well, he's on one of the
                        Cleveland papers now, writing in some  way.
                        There's a woman over here in Wabash (I knew the name of the
                        novelist coming now) has made a big reputation for herself with her books.
                        They have whole stacks of 'em here in the stores, I see. I read one
                        of 'em. They tell me she's worth four or five hundred
                        thousand dollars by now. You've heard of her, haven't
                        you?" She gave me her name.
                    "Yes," I replied very humbly, "I
                        have."
                    "Well, I don't suppose you make that much, anyhow, do
                        you?" she queried.
                    "No," I replied. "I'm very sorry, I
                        don't."
                    I could see by the stress she laid on the four or five hundred thousand
                        dollars and the stacks of books in the local store that my type of
                        authorship would never appeal to her.
                    The conversation changed to the war, and I was amused to find her a most
                        vigorous and determined pro-German. I had been under the impression from
                        reading the Eastern papers that the West was almost solidly pro-Ally, but I
                        received from her a rude awakening.
                    "The papers! The papers!" she exclaimed. "Yes,
                        that's how they all talk. You'd think from reading them
                        around here—the Chicago papers, anyhow—that everybody was for the English.
                        There's more pro-German sentiment right here this minute than there
                        is anything else. The English—they love us a lot, don't they? I keep
                        reading about their being our brothers or cousins, but I guess if it came to
                        a showdown they'd jump on us as quick as they did on the Germans.
                        All this talk about blood being thicker than water! Shucks! There's
                        more German and other bloods in America than there is English."
                    "Yes, I know," I said banteringly. "But this
                        country was settled by the English. Don't forget the Puritans and
                        the Mayflower."
                    
                    "The Mayflower! Yes! Well, there were just as many
                        other foreign settlers in other places—in New York and New
                        Orleans."
                    "And anyhow," I added, "if we don't help
                        the English  now maybe they'll get
                        mad at us after this war and come over and whip us."
                    "Just let 'em come!" she exclaimed defiantly—almost
                        as if she could see them en route. "They haven't won this
                        war yet, and if they hadn't had other people to help 'em,
                        they'd have been whipped long ago. Shucks, we could lick
                        'em with broomsticks if we didn't have anything else. And
                        I'd use one myself!"
                    I burst out laughing. The conjured spectacle of militant American Amazons
                        such as my hostess, broomsticks in hand in battle array, was too much. She
                        laughed with me heartily—stridently.
                    "You laugh," she said. "But we could do it. Wars
                        are won by spirit and brains, and this country has 'em.
                        We'll never be whipped—not by the English, anyhow."
                    "Bravo!" I exclaimed. "Splendid! I like to feel
                        that! You remind me of the best things I have ever thought of
                        America."
                    I cannot tell you all that we talked over here. It was a veritable
                        bombardment of questions and answers.
                    When I came out of there after a time and returned to the car Franklin was
                        still patiently sketching, making good use of his time, whereas Speed was
                        sitting with his feet on a part of his engine equipment cleaning a chain.
                        They were partly surrounded now: (1) by old Mr. Gridley, he of my former
                        room, who was retailing the story of his son's death; (2) by a
                        short, dusty, rotund, rather oily-haired man who announced that he was the
                        owner of the property which had formerly sheltered me, and who by virtue of
                        having cut down all the trees and built the two abominable houses in front
                        seemed to think that he was entitled to my friendship and admiration—a non sequitur which irritated me greatly; (3) by a small
                        boy from somewhere in the vicinity who stood with his legs very far apart,
                        his hands in his pockets, and merely stared and listened while Mr. Gridley
                        related the moving details of his son's death and the futility of
                        the campaign at the Dardanelles. The owner of the houses in front kept
                        trying to interject bits of his personal history  as carpenter, builder, land speculator, and the like. It was
                        most entertaining.
                    "I was just saying to your friend here," said the latter,
                        who had never met me until this moment, "that if you're in
                        town long enough you must come and take dinner with me. We're just
                        plain people, but we can give you plenty to eat. Anyone who lived here as
                        long ago as you did—"
                    I felt no least desire to dine with him, largely because he had cut down all
                        the fine trees and built such trashy houses.
                    He chattered on in an impossible fashion. I could see he was greatly
                        impressed by our possession of this car. And to have come all the way from
                        New York! I wanted to annihilate him for having destroyed the trees—the
                        wretch!
                    But I felt that we ought to be getting on. Here it was after five and I still
                        had various things to see—the old Central High School, where so long ago I
                        finished my eighth grade common and my first year German and algebra; the
                        lakes, Centre and Pike, where with many others I had been accustomed to row,
                        swim, skate, fish, and camp; the old swimming hole out in the Tippecanoe
                        (three miles out, I thought, at least); our old Catholic Church, where I
                        regularly went to confession and communion; the woods where I had once found
                        a dead peddler, lying face down, self-finished, at the foot of a great oak;
                        and so on and so forth—endless places, indeed. Besides, there were various
                        people I wanted to see, people who, like the wiry Mrs. McConnell, could tell
                        me much—perhaps.
                    Alas for intentions and opportunities! I suppose I might have spent days
                        browsing and communing, but now that I was here and actually seeing things,
                        I did not feel inclined to do it. What was there really to see, I asked
                        myself, aside from the mere exterior or surface of things? In one more hour
                        I could examine exteriorly or in perspective all of these things—the lakes,
                        the school, the swimming hole, the church—they were all near at hand—  unless I wanted to linger here for weeks. Did
                        I really want to stay longer than this dusk?
                    Franklin was eager to get on. When first he invited me he had planned no such
                        extended tour as this, and these were not his sacred scenes. It was all very
                        well—but—
                    Nevertheless, we did cruise (as Speed was wont to express it), first to
                        Centre Lake, where many a moonlight when the ice was as thick as a beam and
                        as smooth as glass Ed, Tillie and I, along with a half hundred town boys and
                        girls, had skated to our hearts' content or fished through the ice.
                        My, how wonderful it was! To see them cutting ice on the lake with horses
                        and fishing through holes only large enough to permit the extraction of a
                        small sized fish when one bit. To my astonishment the waters of the lake had
                        receded or diminished fully a fifth of its original circumference, and all
                        the houses and boathouses which formerly stood close to its edge were now
                        fully two hundred feet inland. In addition, all the smartness and
                        superiority which once invested this section were now gone—the region of the
                        summer conferences at Winona having superseded this. Houses I was sure I
                        would be able to recall, should they chance to be here—those of Maud Rutter,
                        Augusta Nueweiler (she of the fir tree kiss), Ada Sanguiat, were not
                        discernible at all. I knew they were here unchanged, but I could not find
                        them.
                    We went out past an old bridge to the northeast of the town (scarcely a half
                        mile out) and found to my astonishment that the stream it once spanned—the
                        Tippecanoe, if you please—and that once drained Centre and Pike Lakes, was
                        now no more. There was only a new stone culvert here, not the old iron and
                        plank wagon bridge of my day—and no water underneath it at all, only a seepy
                        muck, overgrown with marsh grass!! The whole river, a clear sandy-bottomed
                        stream, was now gone—due to the recession of the lake, I suppose. The
                        swimming hole that I fancied must be all of two or three miles out was not
                        more than one, and it had disappeared,  of
                        course, with the rest. There was not even a sign of the footpath that led
                        across the fields to it. All was changed. The wild rice fields that once
                        stood about here for what seemed miles to me, and overrun in the summertime
                        (July, August, and September, in particular) with thousands upon thousands
                        of blackbirds and crows, were now well plowed cornland! I could not see more
                        than the vaguest outlines of the region I had known, and I could not
                        recapture, save in the vaguest way, any of the boyish moods that held me at
                        the time. In my heart was a clear stream and a sandy bottom and a troop of
                        half-forgotten boys, and birds, and blue skies, and men fishing by this
                        bridge where was now this culvert—Ed and I among them occasionally—and here
                        was nothing at all—a changed world.
                    "Oh, it's all gone!" I cried to Franklin.
                        "Let's go back."
                    We went up to the old Central High School, looking exactly as it did in my
                        day, only now a ward instead of a high school—a new high having been built
                        since I left—and here I tried to recapture some of the emotions I have always
                        had in my dreams of it and have still. I saw troops of boys and girls coming
                        out of it at noon and at four in the afternoonI and my sister Tillie among
                        them. I saw Dora Yaisley and Myrtle Taylor (of the pale flower face and
                        violet eyes), and Jess Beasley and Sadie and Dolly Varnum—what a company! And
                        there were George and John Sharp—always more or less companionable with me,
                        and "Jud" Morris and Frank Yaisley and Al Besseler and a
                        score of others—interesting souls all and now scattered to the four corners
                        of the earth.
                    But sitting in the car—suddenly I saw myself in my seat upstairs looking out
                        the north window which was nearest me, and dreaming of the future. From
                        where I sat in those days I could see up a long, clean alley, with people
                        crossing at its different street intersections for blocks away. I could see
                        far off to where the station was and the flour mill and where the trains
                        came in. I could  hear their whistles—distant
                        and beckoning—feeling the tug and pull of my future life to come out and
                        away. I could see clouds and trees and little houses and birds over the
                        court house tower, and then I wanted to get out and fly too—to walk up and
                        down the great earth and be happy.
                    I tell you, in those days, wonderful, amazing moods were generated in the
                        blood of me. I felt and saw things which have never come trueglories, moods,
                        gayeties, prefections. There was a lilt in my heart and my soul. I wanted,
                        oh! I wanted all that Nature can breed in her wealth of stars and
                        universes—and I found—what have I found—?
                    The frame of any man is an infinitesimal shell. The soul of him so small, a
                        pale lamp which he carries in his hands! The passions of which we boast or
                        from whose imagined horrors we flee are such little things—rush
                        lights—scarcely able to glimmer in so great a dark. I have eaten and drunken,
                        and thirsted after all, but should the curtain descend now, how little have
                        I had! How little could any man ever have!
                    Oh, great, scheming, dreaming Prince of Life—what is that you are after? What
                        blood moods in your soul is it that we, your atoms, hurry to fulfill? Do you
                        love? Do you hate? By billions sweating, blazing, do we fulfill some quaint
                        desire of yours? Drop you the curtain then on me. I do not care—I am very
                        tired. Drop it and let me dream no more the endless wonders and delights
                        that never, never, can be.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLI
                    BILL ARNOLD AND HIS BROOD
                    WEST of Warsaw about twelve miles lies the town of Silver
                        Lake, on a small picturesque lake of the same name—a place to which, during
                        our residence at Warsaw, Ed and I more than once repaired to visit a
                        ne'er-do-well uncle and his wife, the latter my mother's
                        half sister. This family was so peculiar and so indifferent to all worldly
                        success and precedence, so utterly trifling and useless, that I am tempted
                        to tell about them even though they do not properly belong in this
                        narrative. William or "Bill" Arnold, as he was called
                        locally, was really the cause of it all. He was the father, but little more
                        than a country wastrel. He had a fiddle on which he could play a little. He
                        had a slightly cocked eye and a nasal voice, high and thin. He had no more
                        education than a squirrel and no more care for things of place and position
                        than any rabbit or woodchuck. His wife, a kindly, inarticulate and
                        meditative woman, who looked like my mother, was all out of sorts and down
                        at heels in soul and body because of his indifference to all things material
                        or spiritual. They lived in an old tumble-down, paintless house, the roof of
                        which leaked and the eaves sagged, and here, and in other houses like it, no
                        doubt, they had had four children, one of whom, the eldest, became a thief
                        (but a very clever one, I have heard); the second a railroad brakeman; the
                        third the wife of an idle country loafer as worthless as her father; the
                        fourth, a hunchbacked boy, was to me, at least, a veritable sprite of
                        iniquity, thinking up small deviltries the whole day long. He was fond of
                        fighting with his sister and parents, shouting vile names when angry, and so
                        conducting himself generally that he was an object almost of loathing to
                        such of our family as knew him.
                    
                    Their home was a delightful place for me to come to, so fresh, so new, so
                        natural—not at all like our ordered home. I felt as though I were housed with
                        a kind of genial wild animal—a fox or prairie dog or squirrel or coyote. Old
                        Arnold had no more morals than a fox or squirrel. He never bathed. He would
                        get up in the morning and feed his pigs and two horses, the only animals he
                        owned—and then, if the weather was suitable and he had no absolutely
                        compelling work to do, he would hunt rabbits (in winter) or squirrel or
                        "pat-ridges," or go fishing, or go down to the saloon to
                        fiddle and sing or to a dance. He was always driving off to some dance where
                        he earned a few cents as a fiddler (it was his great excuse), and then
                        coming home at two or three in the morning, slightly tipsy and genial, to
                        relate his experiences to anyone who would listen. He was not afraid of his
                        wife or children exactly, and yet he was not the master of them either, and
                        it used to scandalize me to have him called a loafer and an "old
                        fool," not by her so much as by them. My own father was so strict,
                        so industrious, so moral, that I could scarcely believe my ears.
                    I used to love to walk west from Warsaw on a fine summer's day, when
                        my mother would permit me, and visit them—walk the whole twelve miles. Once
                        she empowered me to negotiate for a cow which this family owned and for
                        which we paid twentyfive dollars. Ed and I drove the cow up from Silver
                        Lake. Another time we bought three (or four) pigs, and drove them (Ed and I)
                        the whole twelve miles on a hot July day. Great heavens! What a time we had
                        to get them to come along straight! They ran into bogs and woods—wherever
                        there was a fence down—and we had to chase them until they fell exhausted—too
                        far gone to run us farther. Once they invaded a tangled, low growing swamp,
                        to wallow in the muck, and we had to get down on our hands and knees—our
                        bellies actually—to see where they had gone. We were not wearing shoes and
                        stockings; but we took off our trousers, hung them over our arms,  and went in after them. If we didn't
                        beat those pigs when we got near enough! Say! We chased them for nearly a
                        mile to exhaust and punish them, and then we switched them along the rest of
                        the way to "get even."
                    I remember one hot July afternoon, when I was visiting here, how my Aunt
                        Susan read my fortune in the grounds of a coffee cup. It was after a one
                        o'clock farmhand dinner. Uncle Bill and one or two of the other
                        children had come and gone. I was alone with her, and we sat in the shade of
                        an east porch, comfortable in the afternoon. I can see the wall of trees
                        over the way, even yet, the bees buzzing about an adjacent trumpet vine, the
                        grass hot and dry but oh! so summery.
                    "Now, let's see what it says about you in your
                        cup," and she took it and turned it round and round, upside down
                        three times. Then she looked into it meditatively and after a while began:
                        "Oh, I see cities, cities, cities, and great crowds, and bridges,
                        and chimneys. You are going to travel a long way—all over the world, perhaps.
                        And there are girls in your cup! I see their faces," (I thrilled at
                        that.) "You won't stay here long. You'll be going
                        soon, out into the world. Do you want to travel?" she asked.
                    "Yes, indeed I do," I replied.
                    "Well, you will. It's all here."
                    Her face was so grave! She looked like one of the three fates, so old, so
                        wrinkled, so distant.
                    I thought nothing of her at the time, but only of myself. How beautiful would
                        be that outside world! And I would be going to it soon! Walking up and down
                        in it! Oh, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful!
                    When we were traveling toward Warsaw it had been my idea that we would visit
                        Silver Lake and if I could find nothing more I could at least look at that
                        body of water and the fields that surrounded it and the streets with which I
                        had been fairly familiar. The lake had seemed such a glorious thing to me in
                        those days. It was so sylvan and silent. A high growth of trees surrounded.
                             it like a wall. Its waters reflected in
                        turn blue, grey, green, black. It was so still within its wall of trees that
                        our voices echoed hollowly. A fish leaping out of the water could be heard,
                        and the echo of the splash. Often I sat here gazing at the blue sky and the
                        trees, and waiting for a small red and green cork on my line to bob.
                    But my aunt and my uncle were long since dead, I knew. The children had
                        gone—where? There was probably no least trace of them anywhere here, and I
                        was in no mood to hunt them down. Still, in coming West, I had the desire to
                        come here, to look, to stand in some one of these old places and recover if
                        I might a boyhood mood.
                    Now, as we were leaving Warsaw, however, I was too physically tired and too
                        spiritually distrait to be very much interested. My old home town had done
                        for me completely—the shadows of older days. For one thing, I had a splitting
                        headache, which I was carefully concealing, and a fine young heartache into
                        the bargain. I was dreadfully depressed and gloomy.
                    But it was a fine warm night, with a splendid half moon in the sky and
                        delicious wood and field fragrances about. Such odors! Is there anything
                        more moving than the odors, the suspirings of the good earth, in summer?
                    As we neared Silver Lake (as I thought) we ran down into a valley where a
                        small rivulet made its way and under the darkling trees we encountered a
                        homing woman, coming from a milking shed which was close to the stream. Five
                        children were with her, the oldest boy packing the youngest, an infant of
                        two or three years. It reminded me of all the country families I had known
                        in my time—a typical mid-Western and American procession. The mother, a not
                        unprepossessing woman of forty, was clothed in a shapeless grey calico print
                        with a sunbonnet to match, and without shoes. The children were all
                        barefooted and ragged but as brown and healthy and fresh looking as young
                        animals should be. It so 
                        
                            CENTRAL INDIANA A Farm and Silo
                        
                         chanced that Speed had to do something
                        here—look after the light or supply the motor with a cooling draught—and so we
                        paused, and the children gathered around us, intensely curious.
                    "Gee, ain't it a big one!" exclaimed the eldest.
                        "Look at the silver."
                    He was descanting on the lamp.
                    "I'll bet it ain't no bigger than that jackdigger
                        that went through here yesterday," observed the second eldest
                        boastfully.
                    "What's a jackdigger?" I inquired helplessly.
                    "Oh, it's a car," replied the eldest, one of the
                        handsomest boys one would want to look at—beautiful, really—all the more so
                        because of his torn shirt and trousers and his bare feet and head.
                    "Yes, but what kind of car? What make?"
                    "Oh, I can't think. We see 'em around here now and
                        then—great big fellers."
                    And now the next to the youngest, a boy of five or six, had come alongside
                        where I was sitting and was looking up at mea fat little cherub in panties
                        so small you could have made them out of a good sized handkerchief.
                    "There you are," I said to him helpfully.
                        "Won't you come up and sit with me here—such a nice big boy
                        as you are?"
                    He shook his head and backed away a little.
                    "Huhuh," he said, after a pause.
                    "Why not?" I queried, a little yearningly, for I wanted him
                        to come and sit with me.
                    "I can't," he replied, eyeing me solemnly.
                        "I'm 'fraid."
                    "Oh, no," I said, "not afraid of me, surely?
                        Don't you know that no one would think of hurting a little boy like
                        you—not a person in all the world? Won't you come now and sit with
                        me? It's so nice up here."
                    I held out my arms.
                    "I'm 'fraid," he repeated.
                    "Oh, no," I insisted. "You mustn't say
                        that, not of me? You couldn't be. Can't you see how much I
                        like  you? See here"—and I reached
                        into my pocket—"I have pennies and picturecards and I don't
                        know what all. Won't you come now? Please do."
                    "Go on. Charlie," called a brother. "Whatcha
                        'fraid of? Go on." This brother came around then and tried
                        to persuade him.
                    All the while he was staring at me doubtfully, his eyes getting very round,
                        but finally he ventured a step forward, and I picked him up and snuggled him
                        in my arms.
                    "There, now," I said. "Now, you see?
                        You're not afraid of me, are you? Up here in the nice, big car? And
                        now here's your other brother come to sit beside us"—(this
                        because the next oldest had clambered in)"and here's a
                        nickel and here's a picturecard and—"
                    "Who's 'fraid!" he crowed, sitting up in
                        my lap. "I ain't 'fraid, am I?"
                    "Indeed not," I returned. "Big boys like you are
                        not afraid of anything. And now here's a fine big nickel"I
                        went on because he had ignored the previous offer. "And
                        here's a card. Isn't that nice?"
                    "Huhuh," he replied.
                    "You mean you don't like it—don't want
                        it?"
                    "Huhuh," he repeated.
                    "And why not?"
                    "My mother won't let me."
                    "Your mother won't let you take any money?"
                    "Huhuh."
                    "Is that right?" I asked of the eldest boy, rather taken
                        aback by the morals of this group—they were so orderly and sweet.
                    "That's right," he replied, "she
                        won't let us."
                    "Well, now, I wouldn't have you do anything to displease
                        mother—not for worlds—but I'm sorry just the same,"
                        observing her in the distance. She was bending over several full milk pails.
                        Even as I looked she picked them up and came trudging toward us.
                    "Well, anyhow, you can take a card, can't you?" I
                             continued, and I gave each several
                        pictures of Warsaw scenes. "They won't hurt, will
                        they?"
                    "Huhuh," answered the little one, taking them.
                    As the mother neared us I suffered a keen recrudescence of the mood that used
                        to grip me when my mother would go out of an evening like this to milk or
                        walk about the garden or look after the roses at Sullivan, and Ed and Tillie
                        and I would follow her. She was so dear and gentle. Under the trees or about
                        our lawn we would follow her, and here under these odorous trees, in the
                        light of this clear moon, the smell of cattle and wild flowers about, my
                        mother came back and took me by the hand. I held onto her skirt and rubbed
                        against her legs self protectingly. She was all in all to us in those years—
                        the whole world—my one refuge and strength.
                    How benign is the power that makes mothers—and mothers' love!
                    Soon we were off again, speeding under the shade of overhanging trees or out
                        in the open between level fields, and after racing about fourteen miles or
                        thereabouts, we discovered that we were not near Silver Lake any more at
                        all—had passed it by seven miles or so. We were really within six miles of
                        North Manchester, Indiana, a place where a half uncle of mine had once
                        lived, a stingy, greedy, well meaning Baptist, and his wife. He had a very
                        large farm here, one of the best, and was noted for the amount of hay and
                        corn he raised and the fine cattle he kept. My brother Albert, shortly after
                        the family's fortune had come to its worst smash—far back in 1878—had
                        been sent up here by mother to work and board. She was very distraught at
                        the time—at her wits' ends—and her brood was large. So here he had
                        come, had been reasonably well received by this stern pair and had finally
                        become so much of a favorite that they wanted to adopt him. Incidentally he
                        became very vigorous physically, a perfect little giant, with swelling
                        calves and biceps and a desire to exhibit his strength by lifting everybody
                        and everything—a trait which my sister Tillie soon shamed out of him. When we
                        had finally settled in Sullivan,  in 1880, for
                        a year or two he rejoined us and would not return to his foster parents.
                        They begged him but the family atmosphere at Sullivan, restricted and
                        poverty stricken as it was, proved too much for him. He preferred after a
                        time to follow us to Evansville and eventually to Warsaw. Like all the rest
                        of us, he was inoculated with the charm of my mother. No one of us could
                        resist her. She was too wonderful.
                    And now as we neared this city I was thinking of all this and speculating
                        where Al might be now—I had not heard from him in years—and how my half-uncle
                        had really lived (I had never seen him) and what my mother would think if
                        she could follow this ramble with her eyes. But also my head was feeling as
                        though it might break open and my eyes ached and burned dreadfully. I wanted
                        to go back to Warsaw and stay there for a while—not the new Warsaw as I had
                        just seen it, but the old Warsaw. I wanted to see my mother and Ed and
                        Tillie as we were then, not now, and I couldn't. We rolled into
                        this other town, which I had never seen before, and having found the one
                        hotel, carried in our bags and engaged our rooms. Outside, katy-dids and
                        other insects were sawing lustily. There was a fine, clean bathroom with hot
                        and cold water at hand, but I was too flat for that. I wished so much that I
                        was younger and not so sick just now. I could think of nothing but to
                        undress and sleep. I wanted to forget as quickly as possible, and while
                        Franklin and Speed sallied forth to find something to eat I slipped between
                        the sheets and tried to rest. In about an hour or less I slept—a deep,
                        dreamless sleep;—and the next morning on opening my eyes I heard a wood dove
                        outside my window and some sparrows and two neighbor women gossiping in good
                        old Indiana style over a back fence, and then I felt more at ease, a little
                        wistful but happy.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLII
                    IN THE CHAUTAUQUA BELT
                    THE centre of Indiana is a region of calm and simplicity,
                        untroubled to a large extent, as I have often felt, by the stormy emotions
                        and distresses which so often affect other parts of America and the world.
                        It is a region of smooth and fertile soil, small, but comfortable homes,
                        large grey or red barns, the American type of windmill, the American silo,
                        the American motor car—a happy land of churches, Sunday schools, public
                        schools and a general faith in God and humanity as laid down by the
                        Presbyterian or the Baptist or the Methodist Church and by the ten
                        commandments, which is at once reassuring and yet disturbing.
                    This day as we traveled through Wabash, Peru (the winter home of
                        Hagenbeck's and Wallace's combined shows,
                        b'gosh!), Kokomo, where the world very nearly came to an end for
                        Speed and where James Whitcomb Riley once worked in a printer's
                        shop (I understood he had no love for my work)—and so on through West-field,
                        an old Quaker settlement, and to Carmel (where Franklin lives), and really
                        to Indianapolis, for Carmel is little more than a suburb of the former,—I was
                        more and more struck with the facts as I have outlined them here. Certain
                        parts of the world are always in turmoil. Across the rasping grasses of
                        Siberia or the dry sands of Egypt blow winds cold or hot, which make of the
                        people restless, wandering tribes. To peaceful Holland and Belgium, the
                        lowlands of Germany, the plains of France and Italy, and indeed all the
                        region of the ancient world, come periodic storms of ambition or hate, which
                        make of those old soils burying grounds not only of individual souls but of
                        races. Here in America we have already  had
                        proof that certain sections of our land are destined apparently to
                        tempestuous lives—the Atlantic and Pacific seaboards, Texas, Colorado,
                        Kentucky, various parts of the South and the West and the Northwest, where
                        conditions appear to engender the mood dynamic. From Chicago, or Colorado,
                        or San Francisco one may expect a giant labor war or social upheaval of any
                        kind; from Boston or Pennsylvania or New Mexico new religious movements may
                        come—and have; New York, Pennsylvania, Kansas, Nebraska and Illinois can and
                        have contributed vast political upheavals. This is even true of Ohio, its
                        next door neighbor.
                    But Indiana lies in between all this—simple, unpretentious, not indifferent
                        but quiescent,—a happy land of farms and simple industries which can scarcely
                        be said to have worked any harm to any man.
                    Its largest cities have grown in an unobtrusive and almost unheralded way.
                        Its largest contributions to American life so far have been a mildly
                        soporific love literature of sorts, and an uncertain political vote. Anyone
                        could look at these towns—all that we saw—and be sure that the natives were of
                        an orderly, saving, genial and religious turn. I never saw neater small
                        towns anywhere, nor more imposing churches and public buildings, nor fewer
                        saloons, nor cleaner streets, nor better roads. A happy land, truly, where
                        the local papers give large and serious attention to the most innocuous of
                        social doings and the farmers take good care that all their land is under
                        cultivation and well looked after.
                    As we were passing through Wabash, for instance—or was it Peru?—we came upon a
                        very neat and pleasing church and churchyard, the front lawn of which an old
                        man of a very energetic and respectable appearance—quite your "first
                        citizen" type—was mowing with a lawn-mower.
                    "Why should a man of that character be doing that work this weekday,
                        do you suppose?" I inquired of Franklin.
                    "To get to heaven, of course. Can't you see? Heaven  is a literal, material thing to him.
                        It's like this church building and its grass. The closer he can
                        identify himself with that here the nearer he will come to walking into his
                        heaven there. I've noticed at home that the more prosperous and
                        well to do farmers are usually the leaders in the church. They apply the
                        same rules of getting on in religion that they do to their business. It is
                        all a phase of the instinct of a man to provide for himself and his family.
                        I tell you, these people expect to find more or less a duplication of what
                        they have here—with all the ills and pinches taken out and all the
                        refinements of their fancy, such as it is, added."
                    I felt as I thought of that old man that this was true. He reminded me of my
                        father, to whom to do the most menial work about a Catholic church was an
                        honor—such as carrying in wood, building a fire, and the like. You were
                        nearer God and the angels for doing it. Actually you were just outside the
                        pearly gates. And if one could only die in a church—presto!—the gates would
                        open and there you would be inside.
                    Truly, this day of riding south after my depressing afternoon in Warsaw was
                        one of the most pleasant of any that had come to me. Now that I had
                        recovered from my mood of the night before—a chemic and psychic disturbance
                        which quite did for me—I was in a very cheerful frame of mind. Long before
                        either Franklin or Speed had risen this morning—they had spent the evening
                        looking around the town—I was up, had a cold bath, and had written various
                        letters and visited the post office and studied the town in general.
                    It was a halcyon morning, partly grey with a faint tint of pink in the East,
                        when I first looked out, and such an array of house martins on five
                        telegraph or telephone wires over the way as I had not seen in a long time.
                        Birds are odd creatures. Their gregariousness without speech always
                        fascinates me. These, ranged as they were on the different wires, looked
                        exactly like the notes of a complicated and difficult fugue—so much so that I
                        said to a passing citizen who seemed to show an interest: "Now,  if you had a piano or an organ just how would
                        you play that?"
                    He looked up at the wires which a wave of my hand indicated, then at me. He
                        was a man of over forty, who looked as though he might be a traveling
                        salesman or hotelkeeper.
                    "They do look like notes, don't they?" he
                        agreed.
                    We both smiled, and then he added: "Now you make me
                        wonder." And so we parted.
                    Towns of this size, particularly in the Middle West—and I can scarcely say
                        why—have an intense literary and artistic interest for me. Whether it is
                        because of a certain comic grandioseness which accompanies some of their
                        characters or an ultra seriousness entirely out of proportion to the seeming
                        import of events here—or whether one senses a flow of secret and subconscious
                        desires hindered or trammeled perhaps by cluttering or suffocating beliefs
                        or weaknesses, or a lightness and simplicity of character due to the soil
                        and the air—I do not know; but it is so. In this region I am always stirred
                        or appealed to by something which I cannot quite explain. The air seems
                        lighter, the soil more grateful; a sense of something delicately and
                        gracefully romantic is abroad.
                    Like children they are, these people, so often concerned with little things
                        which do not matter at all—neighborhood opinions, neighborhood desires,
                        neighborhood failures and contempts which a little more mind could solve or
                        dissolve so readily. Whenever I see a town of this size in Indiana I think
                        of our family and its relation to one or many like it. My mother and sisters
                        and brothers suffered so much from conventional local notions. They made
                        such a pathetic struggle to rid themselves of trammeling, minor local
                        beliefs.
                    And did they succeed?
                    Not quite. Who does? Small life surrounds one like a sea. We swim in it,
                        whether we will or no. In high halls somewhere are tremendous councils of
                        gods and supermen, but they will not admit us. Zeus and Apollo will not
                        suffer the feeble judgments of humble man. And  so here we sit and slave and are weary—insects with an appointed task.
                    North Manchester, like all the small Indiana towns, appealed to me on the
                        very grounds I have outlined. As I went up the street this early morning
                        with my letters I encountered an old man, evidently a citizen of
                        importance—present or past—being led down by his daughter (I took her to be).
                        The latter was a thin, anmic person who looked endless devotion—a pathetic,
                        yearning solicitude for this man. He was blind, and yet quite an impressive
                        figure, large, protuberant as to stomach, a broad, well-modeled face
                        somewhat like that of the late Henry Ward Beecher, long, snow white hair, a
                        silk hat, a swinging cutaway coat of broadcloth, a pleated soft-bosomed
                        shirt ornamented with a black string tie, and an ivory-headed cane. Under
                        his arm were papers and books. His sightless eyes were fixed on
                        nothing—straight ahead. To me he looked like a lawyer or judge or congressman
                        or politician—a local big-wig of some kind yet stricken in this most pathetic
                        of all ways. The girl who was with him was so intent on his welfare. She was
                        his eyes, his ears, his voice, really. It was wonderful—the resignation and
                        self-effacement of her expression. It was quite moving.
                    "Who is that man?" I asked of a grocer clerk putting out a
                        barrel of potatoes.
                    "That? Oh, that's Judge Shellenberger—or he was judge.
                        He's a lawyer now for the Monon (a railroad that runs through
                        here). He used to be judge of the circuit court."
                    I watched them down the street, and as they turned into a block of buildings
                        where I suppose was his office, my mind was busy conjuring up the background
                        which enmeshed them. Life is so full of great tales—every life in its way a
                        masterpiece if seen in its entirety and against the vast background of life
                        itself. Poor, fluttering, summer loving man! The bones of him make the chalk
                        cliffs of time.
                    To the curb in front of another grocery store as I  was coming back to the hotel drew up a small, rickety buggy—so
                        dilapidated and antique, scarcely worthy or safe to be hauled about rough
                        country roads any longer. In it were "my Grandfather
                        Squeers"—jackknife legs and all—and his wife, a most spare and
                        crotchety female, in a very plain black dress, so inexpensive, a grey
                        linseywoolsey shawl and a grey poke bonnet. She looked so set and fixed and yet humanly interesting in her way. I felt sorry
                        for the two of them at once, as I always do for age and that limited array
                        of thoughts which has produced only a hard, toilsome life. (We laugh at
                        ignorance or dullness or condemn them so loudly, but sometimes they are
                        combined with such earnestness and effort that one would rather cry.)
                        "My Grandfather Squeers" was plainly a little rheumatic
                        and crotchety, too. He reminded me of that Mr. Gridley who was occupying my
                        old room in Warsaw, only he was much older and not quite so intelligent. He
                        was having a hard time getting down between the wheels and straightening out
                        some parcels under the seat, the while Aunt Sally stared on straight ahead
                        and the horse looked back at them—a not overfed bay mare which seemed very
                        much concerned in their affairs and what they were going to do next.
                    "Now, don't you forget about them seed onions,"
                        came a definite caution from the figure on the seat.
                    "No, I won't," he replied.
                    "And ast about the potatoes."
                    "Yes."
                    He cricketed his way into the store and presently came out with a small bag
                        followed by a boy carrying a large bag—of potatoes, I assumed.
                    "I guess we can put them right in front—eh, mother?" he
                        called.
                    "Yes, I suppose so," she assented, rather sharply, I
                        thought, but not angrily.
                    The while the boy roughly bestowed the bag between them he went back for
                        something, then came out and readjusted the potatoes properly.
                    
                    "He didn't have any red tape," he called loudly,
                        as though it was a matter of considerable importance.
                    "Well, all right," she said. "Come on and get
                        in."
                    With much straining of his thin, stiff legs he got up and as he did so I
                        noticed that his coat and trousers were home-made—cut, oh! most amazingly—and
                        out of some old, faded wine colored cloth to begin with, probably worn years
                        before by someone else. It made me think of all the old people I had known
                        in my time, scrimping along on little or nothing, and of the thousands and
                        thousands perhaps in every land for whom life is so hard, so meagre! If an
                        artist takes a special case in hand and depicts it, one weeps, but no scheme
                        has been devised to relieve the intense pressure on the many; and we forget
                        so easily. I most of all. If I were a god, I have often said to myself, I
                        would try to leaven the whole thing a little more evenly—but would I? Perhaps
                        if I were a god I would see a reason for things as they are—a strangeness, a
                        beauty, a requital not present to these mortal eyes.
                    These streets of North Manchester were hung with those same triangular
                        banners—red, white, blue, green, pink, orange—which we had seen in the East
                        and which announced the imminence of a local Chautauqua. I do not know much
                        about that organization, but it certainly knows how to advertise in country
                        towns. In the store windows were quite striking pictures of Stromboli, the
                        celebrated band leader, a chrysanthemum haired, thin bodied Italian in a
                        braided white suit, who had been photographed crouching, as though he were
                        about to spring, and with one thin hand raised high in the air holding a
                        bâton. His appearance was that of one who was saying: "One more
                        crash now and I have won all." And adjoining him in every window
                        was the picture of Madame Adelina Scherzo, the celebrated soprano prim donna
                        "straight from the Metropolitan Opera House, New York,"
                        who was shown photographed with manager and friends on the observation
                        platform of her private  car. Madame Scherzo
                        was in black velvet, with bare arms, shoulders and throat, an entrancing
                        sight. She was rather pretty too, and a line under the picture made it clear
                        that she was costing the management "$800.00 a day," a
                        charge which interested me, considering the size of the town and county and
                        the probable audiences which could be got out to see anything.
                    "How large is the hall where the Chautauqua entertainments are
                        held?" I asked of the local bookstore man where I was buying some
                        picturecards.
                    "It isn't a hall; it's a tent," he
                        replied. "They bring their own tent."
                    "Well, how many will it seat or hold?"
                    "Oh, about fifteen hundred people."
                    "And how many can they count on at any given
                        performance?"
                    "Oh, about a thousand."
                    "Not more than that?" I queried.
                    "A thousand is a good crowd for a fair night," he
                        persisted.
                    "And how much can they average per head?" I continued.
                    "Oh, not more than twentyfive cents. The seats run fifteen,
                        twentyfive thirtyfive and fifty cents."
                    "Then say they average forty cents," I said to myself.
                        "That would mean that they took in four hundred dollars at a single
                        performance—or if there are two a day, between seven and eight hundred
                        dollars a day. And this one singer costs them eight hundred."
                    I saw the horns and hoofs of the ubiquitous press agent.
                    "Do you think that Madame Scherzo gets the sum they say she
                        does?" I asked of this same bookstore man, wondering whether he was
                        taken in by their announcement. He looked fairly intelligent.
                    "Yes, indeed! She comes from the Metropolitan Opera House. I
                        don't suppose she'd come out here for any less than
                        that."
                    I wondered whether he intended this as a reflection on
                    
                    Indiana or a compliment to North Manchester. It was a little dubious.
                    "Well, that's a good deal for a tent that only seats
                        fifteen hundred," I replied.
                    "But you don't want to forget that they play to two
                        audiences a day," he returned solemnly, as though he had solved it
                        all.
                    I thought it unkind to argue with him. Why shouldn't North
                        Manchester have a celebrated prima donna costing eight hundred dollars a
                        day? Think how the knowledge of that would add to the natives'
                        enjoyment of her music!
                    "You're right," I said. "I
                        hadn't thought of that." And out I went.
                    While we were trifling about getting ready to start, a singular combination
                        of circumstances produced an odd case of repetition or duplication of a set
                        of facts which had occurred the year before, which impressed me greatly, the
                        more so as it corresponded exactly with a number of similar instances in my
                        own life.
                    I might preface my remarks by saying that throughout my life experiences and
                        scenes have to a certain extent tended to duplicate or repeat themselves.
                        Nietzsche remarks somewhere that we all have our typical experiences. It is
                        not a particularly brilliant deduction, considering the marked predilections
                        of certain temperaments. But when we connect up the fact with chemical or
                        physical law, as we are likely some day to do, it becomes highly
                        significant. Personally, I am one who believes that as yet we have not
                        scratched the surface of underlying fact and law. I once believed, for
                        instance, that nature was a blind, stumbling force or combination of forces
                        which knew not what or whither. I drew that conclusion largely from the
                        fumbling nonintelligence (relatively speaking) of men and all sentient
                        creatures. Of late years I have inclined to think just the reverse, i. e.,
                        that nature is merely dark to us because of her tremendous subtlety and our
                        own very limited powers of comprehension; also that in common  with many other minor forces and forms of
                        intelligence—insects and trees, for example—we are merely tools or
                        implements—slaves, to be exact—and that collectively we are used as any other
                        tool or implement would be used by us.
                    Thus there is a certain species of ant, the Dorylii, which is plainly a
                        scavenger so far as the surface of the earth is concerned, appearing at the
                        precise moment when a dead body is becoming offensive and burying and
                        devouring it. This may be said to be equally true of buzzards, jackals,
                        carrion crows, creatures which a Darwinian naturalist would explain as the
                        result of an unintentional pressure—and natural selection. On the other hand,
                        current biology tends to indicate that all is foreshadowed, prearranged;
                        that indications of what will be are given ages before it is permitted to
                        appear. Onto genetic Orthogenesis it is called, I believe. The creative
                        forces have an amazing way of working. They may use strange means—races of
                        men and insects, of no particular value to them—to accomplish certain
                        results. Thus man might well be a tool intended to release certain forces in
                        the soil—coal, iron, stone, copper, gold—and all his social organization and
                        social striving merely the physico-legal aspects or expression of the
                        processes by which all things are done. Multiple unit forces must work in
                        some harmonious way, and all these harmonious processes would therefore need
                        to be provided for. They may be the chemical and physical laws by which we
                        are governed. How otherwise can one explain the fact that although there is
                        apparently sufficient wisdom in the universe to sustain immense sidereal
                        systems in order and to generate all the complex organisms which we see and
                        can examine at our leisure, yet man remains blind and dumb as to the
                        processes by which he comes and goes? He has examined a little. He has
                        prepared a lexicon of laws whose workings he has detected. Beyond these must
                        be additional laws, or so he suspects, but what are they? In the meantime,
                        instead of nature permitting him to go on (once he has his mind prepared for
                        thought  along these lines), it strikes him
                        down and puts new, ignorant youth in his place—new, ignorant generations of
                        youths.
                    Actually (I sincerely believe this) it is not intended that man should ever
                        be permitted to know anything. The temperaments of the powers to whom we
                        pray are not magnanimous. Man is a slave, a tool. The fable of Prometheus
                        and the divine fire has more of fact than of poetry in it. At every turn of
                        man's affairs he is arbitrarily and ruthlessly and mockingly
                        confused. New generations of the dull and thick are put forth. False
                        prophets arise. Religionists, warriors, dreamers without the slightest
                        conception of the import of that which they seek or do, arise, slay, burn,
                        confuse. Man stands confounded for a time, a slave to illusion, toiling with
                        forces and by aid of forces which he does not understand, and effecting
                        results the ultimate use of which he cannot possibly grasp. We burn gas! For
                        ourselves alone? We generate electricity! For ourselves alone? We mine coal,
                        iron, lead, etc.—release it into space eventually. For ourselves alone? Who
                        knows, really? By reason of the flaming, generative chemistry of our bodies
                        we are compelled to go on. Why?
                    At the critical moment when man becomes too inquisitive he may be once more
                        chained to the rock, Prome-theus-like, and the eagles of ignorance and duty
                        set at his vitals, Why the astounding bludgeoning of each other by the
                        nations of Europe? Cosmically—permanently—what can they gain?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIII
                    THE MYSTERY OF COINCIDENCE
                    AS we were starting for Wabash from here, a distance of
                        twenty miles or so, and at ten o'clock in the morning, it began to
                        sprinkle. Now the night before, as we were entering this place, Franklin had
                        been telling me that as he had gone through here the year before about this
                        time in the morning, homebound from a small lake in this vicinity, some
                        defect in the insulation of the wiring had caused a small fire which
                        threatened to burn the car. They detected it in time by smelling burning
                        rubber. Incidentally, it had started to rain, and they had to go back to the
                        local garage for repairs.
                    "I bet it rains tomorrow," Speed had observed as he heard
                        Franklin's story.
                    "Why?" I asked.
                    "There's a ring around the moon."
                    "That always means rain, does it?" I chaffed.
                    He did not answer direct, but concluded: "I bet it will be raining
                        by tomorrow noon."
                    Just as we were leaving town, and before we reached a bridge which spans the
                        Eel River at this place, I detected the odor of burning rubber and called
                        Franklin's attention to it. At the same time Speed smelt it too,
                        and stopped the car. We got out and made a search. Sure enough, a rubber
                        covering protecting and separating some wires which joined in a box was on
                        fire, and the smoke was making a fine odor. We put it out, but as we did so
                        Franklin observed, "That's funny."
                    "What?" I inquired.
                    "Why, this," he replied. "At this place last year,
                        in a rain, this very spot, nearly, we got out because we smelled burning
                        rubber and put out a fire in this same box."
                    
                    "That is odd," I said, and then I began to think of my own
                        experiences in this line and the fact that so often things have repeated
                        themselves in my life, in little and in big, in such a curious way.
                    Once, as I told Franklin now—the only other time, in fact, that I took an
                        important trip in this way—a certain Englishman whom I had not seen in years
                        burst in upon me with a proposition that I go to England and Europe with
                        him, offering to see that the money for the trip was raised and without my
                        turning a hand in the matter—and quite in the same way, only a week before,
                        Franklin himself had burst in upon me with a similar proposition, which I
                        had accepted. Another time, at the opening of a critical period of my life,
                        I was compelled to undergo an operation in the process of which, under
                        ether, certain characters appeared to me, acting in a particular way and
                        saying various things to me which impressed me greatly at the time; and
                        later, at another critical period when, strangely enough, I was, much
                        against my wishes, undergoing another operation, these same characters
                        appeared to me and said much the same things in the same way.
                    One of the commonest of my experiences, as I now told Franklin, had been a
                        thing like this, I would be walking along thinking of nothing in particular
                        when some person, male or female, about whom I cared nothing, would appear,
                        stop me, and chat about nothing in particular. Let us say he or she carried
                        a book, or a green parasol, or a yellow stick, and congratulated me upon or
                        complained to me concerning something I had or had not done. As for my part,
                        at that particular moment I might be trying to solve some problem. in
                        relation to fiction or finance—a crucial problem. It would be raining or
                        beautifully clear or snowing. A year or two later, under almost exactly the
                        same circumstances, when I would be trying to solve a similar problem, in
                        rain or snow or clear weather, as the case might be, I would meet the same
                        person, dressed almost as before, carrying a book or a cane or green
                        parasol, and we would  talk about nothing in
                        particular, and I would say to myself, after he or she were gone, perhaps:
                        "Why, last year, at just about this place, when I was thinking of
                        just some such problem as this, I met this same person looking about like
                        this."
                    I am not attempting to theorize concerning this. I am merely stating a
                        fact.
                    This system of recurrence applies not only to situations of this kind, but to
                        many others. The appearance of a certain person in my life has always been
                        heralded by a number of hunchbacks who came forward, passed—sometimes
                        touching my elbow—and frequently looking at me in a solemn manner, as though
                        some subconscious force, of which they were the tool, were saying to me,
                    "See, here is the sign."
                    For a period of over fifteen years in my life, at the approach of every
                        marked change—usually before I have passed from an old set of surroundings to
                        a new—I have met a certain smug, kindly little Jew, always the same Jew, who
                        has greeted me most warmly, held my hand affectionately for a few moments,
                        and wished me well. I have never known him any more intimately than that.
                        Our friendship began at a sanatorium, at a time when I was quite ill.
                        Thereafter my life changed and I was much better. Since then, as I say,
                        always at the critical moment, he has never failed. I have met him in New
                        York, Chicago, the South, in trains, on shipboard. It is always the same.
                        Only the other day, after an absence of three years, I saw him again. I am
                        not theorizing; I am stating facts. I have a feeling, at times, as I say,
                        that life is nothing but a repetition of very old circumstances, and that we
                        are practically immortal, only not very conscious of it.
                    Going south from North Manchester, we had another blowout in the right rear
                        tire and in connection with this there was a discussion which may relate
                        itself to what I have just been saying or it may not. The reader may recall
                        that between Stroudsburg and Wilkes-Barré, in Pennsylvania, we had had two
                        blowouts in  this same right rear wheel, or
                        tire, and in connection with the last of these two blowouts just east of
                        Wilkes-Barré, Franklin had told me that hitherto—over since he had had the
                        car, in fact—all the trouble had been in the same right rear wheel and that,
                        being a good mystic, he had finally to realize for himself that there was
                        nothing the matter with the perfect idea of this car as it existed before it
                        was built or, in other words, its psychic unity, and hence that there
                        couldn't be anything wrong with this right rear wheel. You see?
                        After that, once this had been clearly realized by him, there had been no
                        more trouble of any kind in connection with this particular quarter or wheel
                        until this particular trip began.
                    "Now see here, Speed," I heard him say on this particular
                        occasion. "Here's a psychic fact I want you to get.
                        We'll have to get that right hand tire off our minds. This car is
                        an embodiment of a perfect idea, an idea that existed clear and sound before
                        this car was ever built. There is nothing wrong with that idea, or that
                        tire. It can't be injured. It is in existence outside this car and
                        they are building other cars according to it right now. This car is as
                        perfect as that idea. It's a whole—a unit. It's intact.
                        Nothing can happen to it. It can't be injured. Do you get me? Now
                        you're going to think that and we're not going to have any
                        trouble. We're going to enjoy this trip."
                    Speed looked at Franklin, and I felt as though something had definitely been
                        "put over," as we say—just what I am not quite able to
                        explain myself. Anyhow we had no more tire trouble of any kind until just as
                        we were nearing Wabash or about half way between the two towns. Then came
                        the significant whistle and we climbed down.
                    "There you have it!" exclaimed Franklin enigmatically.
                        "You shouldn't have knocked on wood, Speed."
                    "What was that?" I inquired, interested.
                    "Well, you remember where we had the last blowout, don't
                        you?"
                    "Yes," I said, "east of Wilkes-Barré."
                    
                    "We haven't had any trouble since, have we?"
                    "Not a bit."
                    "Last night, after you had gone to bed, Speed and I went to a
                        restaurant. As we were eating, I said: 'We've had some
                        great tire luck, haven't we?' Perhaps I shouldn't
                        have thought of it as luck. Anyhow he said, 'Yes, but
                        we're not home yet,' and he knocked on wood. I said:
                        'You shouldn't knock on wood. That's a confession
                        of lack of understanding. It's a puncture in the perfect idea of
                        the car. We're likely to have a blowout in the morning.'
                        And here it is."
                    He looked at me and smiled.
                    "What is this," I said, "a real trip or an
                        illusion?"
                    He smiled again.
                    "It's a real trip, but it wants to be as perfect as the
                        idea of it."
                    I felt my conception of a solid earth begin to spin a little, but I said
                        nothing more. Anyhow, the wheel was fixed, as well as the psychic idea of
                        it. And we didn't have any more tire trouble this side of Carmel,
                        where Speed left us.
                    Going south from North Manchester, we came to Wabash, a place about as
                        handsome as Warsaw, if not more so, with various charming new buildings. It
                        was on the Wabash River—the river about which my brother Paul once composed
                        the song entitled, "On the Banks of the Wabash Far Away"
                        (I wrote the first verse and chorus!), and here we found a picture postcard
                        on sale which celebrated this fact. "On the Banks of the Wabash Far
                        Away," it said under a highly colored scene of some sycamore trees
                        hanging over the stream. As my brother Paul was very proud of his authorship
                        of this song, I was glad.
                    From here, since it was raining and we were in a hurry to reach Carmel before
                        dark, we hustled west to Peru, about twenty miles, the cover up and the
                        storm curtains on, for we were in a driving rain. I could not help noting
                        how flat Indiana was in this region, how 
                        numerous were the beech and ash groves, how good the roads, and how
                        Hollandesque the whole distant scene. Unlike Ohio, there was no sense here
                        of a struggle between manufacture and trade and a more or less simple
                        country life. The farmers had it all, or nearly so. The rural homes were
                        most of them substantial, if not markedly interesting to look upon, and the
                        small towns charming. There were no great factory chimneys cutting the sky
                        in every direction, as farther east, but instead, windmills, and silos and
                        red or grey barns, and cows, or horses, or sheep in the fields. At Peru I
                        asked a little girl who worked in the five-and-ten-cent store if she liked
                        living in Peru.
                    "Like it? This old town? I should say not."
                    "Why not?" I replied.
                    "Well, you ought to live here for a while, and you'd soon
                        find out. It's all right to go through in a machine, I
                        suppose."
                    "Well, where would you rather be, if not here?" I
                        questioned.
                    "Oh, what's the use wishing—lots of places," she
                        replied irritably, and as if desiring to end the vain discussion.
                        "It never does me any good to wish."
                    She walked off to wait upon another customer, and I departed.
                    South of Peru were several county seats and towns of small size, which we
                        might have visited had we chosen to take the time; but aside from passing
                        through Kokomo, in order to see an enormous automobile works with which
                        Speed had formerly been connected, and from whence, earlier in his life, he
                        had attempted to flee at the approach of the end of all things, we avoided
                        all these towns. It was raining too hard, and there would have been no
                        pleasure in stopping.
                    At Kokomo, which appeared presently out of a grey mist and across a middle
                        distance of wet green grass and small, far scattered trees, we had a most
                        interesting experience. We met the man who made the first automobile in
                        America, and saw his factory—the  Haynes
                        Automobile Company, of which he was president and principal stockholder, and
                        which was employing, at the time we were there, nearly three thousand men
                        and turning out over two thousand cars a year, nearly a car apiece for every
                        man and woman in the place. I saw no children employed.
                    The history of this man, as sketched to me beforehand by Franklin and Speed,
                        was most interesting. Years before he had been a traveling salesman, using a
                        light runabout in this very vicinity. Later he had interested himself in
                        motors of the gas and steam variety and had entered upon the manufacture of
                        them. Still later, when the problem of direct transmission was solved in
                        France and the automobile began to appear abroad, he, in conjunction with a
                        man named Apperson, decided to attempt to construct a car here which would
                        avoid infringing all the French patents. Alone, really, without any
                        inventive aid from Apperson, so to speak, Haynes solved the problem, at
                        least in part. It was claimed later, and no doubt it was true, that he,
                        along with many other mechanicians attempting to perfect an American car
                        which would avoid French lawsuits, had merely rearranged, not improved upon,
                        the French idea of direct transmission. At any rate, he was sued, along with
                        others; but the American automobile manufacturers eventually beat the French
                        patentees and remained in possession of their designs. Of all of these,
                        Haynes was the first American to put an American automobile in the
                        field.
                    We were shown over his factory before meeting him, however, and a fascinating
                        spectacle it proved. We arrived in a driving rain, with the clouds so thick
                        and low that you would have thought it dusk. All the lights in the great
                        concern were glowing as though it were night. A friendly odor of smoke and
                        hot mould sand and grease and shellac and ground metal permeated the air for
                        blocks around. Inside were great rooms, three to four hundred feet long, all
                        of a hundred feet wide, and glassed over top and sides for light, in which
                        were  droves of men, great companies of them,
                        in jeans and jumpers, their faces and hands and hair stained brown or black
                        with oil and smoke, their eyes alight with that keen interest which the
                        intelligent workman always has in his work.
                    I never saw so many automobiles and parts of automobiles in all my life. It
                        was interesting to look at whole rooms piled high with auto carriage frames
                        or auto motors, or auto tops or auto bodies. I never imagined that there
                        were so many processes through which all parts of a machine have to be put
                        to perfect them, or that literally thousands of men do some one little thing
                        to every machine turned out. We stood and gazed at men who were polishing
                        the lacquered sides of automobile bodies with their thumbs, dipping them in
                        oil and so rubbing down certain rough places; or at others hovering over
                        automobile motors attached in rows to gasoline tanks and being driven at an
                        enormous rate of speed for days at a time without ever stopping, to test
                        their durability and speed capacity. It was interesting to see these test
                        men listening carefully for any untoward sound or flash, however slight,
                        which might indicate an error. We pay very little, comparatively, for what
                        we buy, considering the amount of time spent by thousands in supplying our
                        idlest wants.
                    And there were other chambers where small steel, or brass, or copper parts
                        were being turned out by the thousand, men hovering over giant machines so
                        intricate in their motions that I was quite lost and could only develop a
                        headache thinking about them afterward. Actually, life loses itself at every
                        turn for the individual in just such a maze. You gaze, but you never see
                        more than a very little of what is going on about you. If we could see not
                        only all the processes that are at work simultaneously everywhere, supplying
                        us with what we use here, but in addition, only a fraction—that nearest us—of
                        the mechanics and physics of the universe, what a stricken state would we be
                        in! Actually, unless we were protected by lack of capacity for
                        comprehension, I should  think one might go
                        mad. The thunder, the speed, the light, the shuttle flashes of all the
                        process—how they would confuse and perhaps terrify! For try as we will,
                        without a tremendous enlargement of the reasoning faculty, we can never
                        comprehend. Vast, amazing processes cover or encircle us at every turn, and
                        we never know. Like the blind we walk, our hands out before us, feeling our
                        way. Like moths we turn about the autogenetic flame of human mystery and
                        never learn—until we are burned, and not then—not even a little.
                    After inspecting the factory we came into the presence of the man who had
                        built up all this enterprise. He was relatively undersized, quite stocky,
                        with a round, dumpling-like body, and a big, round head which looked as
                        though it might contain a very solid mass of useful brains. He had the air
                        of one who has met thousands, a diplomatic, cordial, experienced man of
                        wealth. I sensed his body and his mind to be in no very healthy condition,
                        however, and he looked quite sickly and preoccupied. He had a habit, I
                        observed, contracted no doubt through years of meditation and introspection,
                        of folding both arms over his stout chest, and then lifting one or the other
                        forearm and supporting his head with it, as though it might fall over too
                        far if he did not. He had grey-blue eyes, the eyes of the thinker and
                        organizer, and like all strong men, a certain poise and ease very
                        reassuring, I should think, to anyone compelled or desiring to converse with
                        him.
                    The story he told us of how he came to build the first automobile (in
                        America) was most interesting.
                    Franklin had seemed to be greatly interested to discover whether as an
                        Indiana pioneer this man had borrowed the all-important idea of transmission
                        from either Daimler or Panhard, two Europeans, who in the early stages of
                        the automobile had solved this problem for themselves in slightly different
                        ways, or whether he had worked out for himself an entirely independent
                        scheme of transmission and control. Franklin went after him on this, but he
                        could get nothing very  satisfactory. The man,
                        affable and courteous, explained in a roundabout way that he had made use of
                        two clutches, and then toward the end of the interview, when Franklin
                        remarked, "You know, of course, that the idea of transmission was
                        worked out some time before 1893" (the year Haynes built his first
                        car), he replied, "You have to give those fellows credit for a
                        great deal"—a very indefinite answer, as you see.
                    But to me the man was fascinating as a man, and I was pleased to hear him
                        explain anything he would.
                    "I was already interested in gas and steam engines and motors of
                        this type," he said, "and I just couldn't keep
                        out of it."
                    "In other words, you put an old idea into a new form," I
                        suggested.
                    "Yes—just that."
                    "Tell me—who bought your first car?" I inquired.
                    "A doctor up in Chicago," he smiled. "He has it
                        yet."
                    "Of course, you thought you could make money out of
                        it?"
                    "Well, I built my first car with the idea of having one for myself,
                        really. I have a turn for mechanics. I borrowed enough money to begin
                        manufacturing at once—took in a partner."
                    "And then what?"
                    "Well, the machine was a success. We just grew. In a few months we
                        were behind on our orders, and always have been since."
                    He appeared too tired and weary to be actively at the head of any business at
                        this time. Yet he went on telling us a little of his trade struggles and
                        what he thought of the future of the automobile—in connection with farming,
                        railroads and the like—then he suddenly changed to another subject.
                    "But I'm not nearly so interested in automobiles as I
                        was," he observed smilingly, at the same time diving into his
                        pocket and producing what looked like a silver knife. "My son and
                        I"—he waved an inclusive hand  toward
                        an adjoining room built of red brick, and which seemed to be flickering
                        romantically as to its walls with the flame reflections of small furnace
                        fires—"have invented a thing which we call stellak, which is five
                        hundred times harder than steel and cuts steel just as you would cut wood
                        with an ordinary knife."
                    "Well, how did you invent that?" I asked.
                    "We had need of something of that kind here, and my son and I
                        invented it."
                    "You just decided what to do, did you? But why did you call it
                        stellak?" I persisted.
                    "After stella, star, because the metal turned out to be so bright.
                        It has some steel in it, too."
                    He shifted his arms, sank his head into the palm of his left hand, and gazed
                        at me solemnly.
                    "All the processes are patented," he added, with a kind of
                        unconscious caution which amused me. I felt as though he imagined we were
                        looking too curiously into the workshop, where the perfecting processes were
                        still going on, and might desire to steal his ideas.
                    "There ought to be a real fortune in that," I said.
                    "Yes," he replied, with a kind of lust for money showing in
                        his face, although he was already comfortably rich and daily growing richer
                        as well as sicker, "we're already behind on our orders.
                        Everybody wants to see it. We can use a lot ourselves if we can just make it
                        fast enough."
                    There was a time in my life when I would have envied a man of this type, or
                        his son, the mere possession of money seemed such an important thing to me.
                        Later on, it became the sign manual of certain limitations of thought which
                        at first irritated and then bored me. Now I can scarcely endure the presence
                        of a mind that sees something in money as money—the mere possession of it. If
                        the mind does not race on to lovelier or more important things than money
                        can buy, it has no import to the world, no more, at least, than is involved
                        in the syphoning of a clam. We must have grocers and brewers and butchers
                        and bakers—but if we were never to have more than these or anything different
                        or new! !
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIV
                    THE FOLKS AT CARMEL
                    THE run to Carmel, Franklin's home, was not long—
                        say, forty miles—and we made it in a downpour and were silent most of the
                        way. It was so dark and damp and gloomy that no one seemed to want to talk,
                        and yet I took a melancholy comfort in considering how absolutely cheerless
                        the day was. I could not help reflecting, as we sped along, how at its worst
                        life persistently develops charm, so that if one were compelled to live
                        always in so gloomy a world, one would shortly become inured to it, or the
                        race would, and think nothing of it.
                    Once Speed called my attention to a group of cattle with their heads to wind
                        and rain, and asked, "Do you know why they stand that
                        way?"
                    "No," I replied.
                    "Well, all animals turn their fighting end to any trouble. If those
                        were horses, now, their rump would be to the rain."
                    "I see," I said, "They fight with their
                        heels."
                    "Like some soldiers," said Franklin drily.
                    In another place we saw another great stretch of beech woods, silvery in the
                        rain, and Franklin commented on the characteristic presence of these groves
                        everywhere in Indiana. There was one near his home, he said, and there had
                        been one in every town I had ever lived in in this state.
                    At dusk we reached Westfield, only six miles from his home, where the Quakers
                        lived. This was one of those typical community towns, with standardized
                        cottages of grey-white wood and rather stately trees in orderly rows.
                        Because of a difficulty here with one of  the
                        lamps, which would not light, we had to stop a while, until it grew quite
                        dark. A lost chicken ran crying out of a neighboring cornfield, and we
                        shooed it back towards its supposed home, wondering whether the rain and
                        wind or some night prowler would not kill it. It was very much excited,
                        running and squeaking constantly—a fine call to any fox or weasel. Chickens
                        are so stupid.
                    Presently we came into Carmel, in the night and rain, but there being few
                        lights, I could not make out anything. The car turned into a yard somewhere
                        and stopped at a side door, or porch. We got out and a little woman, grey
                        and small, cheerful and affectionate, as became a doting mother, came out
                        and greeted us, kissing Franklin.
                    "What kept you so long?" she asked, in a familiar motherly
                        fashion. "We thought you were going to get here by
                        noon."
                    "So did we," replied Franklin drily. "I wired you,
                        though."
                    "Yes, I know. Your father's gone to bed. He stayed up as
                        long as he could. Come right in here, please," she said to me,
                        leading the way, while Franklin stopped to search the car. I followed, damp
                        and heavy, wondering if the house would be as cheerful as I hoped.
                    It was. It was the usual American small-town home, built with the number of
                        rooms supposed to be appropriate for a given number of people or according
                        to your station in life. A middle class family of some means, I believe, is
                        supposed to have a house containing ten or twelve rooms, whether they need
                        them or not. A veranda, as I could see, ran about two sides, and there was a
                        lawn with trees. Within, the furnishings were substantial after their
                        kind—good middle-west furniture. (Franklin's studio, at the back, as
                        I discovered later, was charmingly appointed.) There were some of his early
                        drawings on the wall, which love had framed and preserved. They reminded me
                        of my family's interest in me. A tall, slim, dark girl, anæmic but
                        with glistening black eyes, came in and greeted me. She was a sister,  I understood—a milliner, by trade, taking her
                        vacation here. As she came, she called to another girl who would not come—why
                        I could not at first comprehend. This was a niece to whom Franklin more than
                        once on the way out had referred as being superiorly endowed
                        temperamentally, and as possessing what spiritualists or theosophists refer
                        to as an "old soul," she was so intelligent. He could not
                        explain her natural wisdom save on the ground of her having lived
                        before.
                    "Some people just insist on being shy," said the sister.
                        "They are so temperamental."
                    She showed me to my room, and then went off to help get us something to
                        eat.
                    Alone, I examined my surroundings, unpacked my things, opened a double
                        handful of mail, and then came down and sat with the mother and sister at
                        supper. It being late, bacon and eggs were our portion, and some cake—a
                        typical late provision for anyone in America.
                    I wish I might accurately portray, in all its simplicity, and placidity, the
                        atmosphere I found here. This house was so still—and the town. Mrs., Booth,
                        Franklin's mother, seemed so essentially the middle West, even
                        Indiana mother, with convictions and yet a genial tolerance of much. Making
                        the best of a difficult world was written all over the place. There was a
                        little boy here, adopted from somewhere because his parents were dead, who
                        seemed inordinately fond of Franklin, as indeed Franklin seemed of him. I
                        had had stories of this boy all the way out, and how through him Franklin
                        was gaining (or regaining, perhaps, I had better say) a knowledge of the
                        ethics and governing rules of boy-land. It was amusing to see them together
                        now, the boy with sharp, bird-like eyes devouring every detail of his older
                        friend's appearance and character—Franklin amused, fatherly,
                        meditative, trying to make the most and best of all the opportunities of
                        life. We sat in the "front room," or
                        "parlor," and listened to the Victrola rendering pieces by
                        Bert Williams and James Whitcomb Riley and Tchaikowsky and Weber and Fields
                        and Beethoven—the  usual medley of the sublime
                        and the ridiculous found in so many musical collections. Franklin had told
                        me that of late—only in the last two or three years—his father had begun to
                        imagine that there might or must be in music something which would explain
                        the world's, to him, curious interest in it! Hitherto, on his farm,
                        where there had been none, he had scoffed at it!
                    The next morning I arose early, as I thought—eight o'clock—and going
                        out on the front porch encountered an old, grizzled man, who looked very
                        much like the last portraits of the late General Sherman, and who seemed
                        very much what he was, or had been—a soldier, and then latterly a farmer. Now
                        he was all gnarled and bent. His face was grizzled with a short, stubby grey
                        beard. The eyes were rather small and brown and looked canny. He got up with
                        difficulty, a cane assisting him, and offered me a withered hand. I felt
                        sympathy for all age.
                    "Well, ya got here, did ya?" he inquired shortly. There was
                        a choppy brevity about his voice which I liked. He seemed very self
                        sufficient, genial and shrewd, for all his years. "We expected ya
                        last night. I couldn't wait up, though. I did stay up till eight.
                        That's pretty late for me—usually go to bed at seven. Have a nice
                        trip?"
                    We sat down and I told him. His eyes went over me like a swift feeling
                        hand.
                    "Well, you're just the man I want to talk to," he
                        said, with a kind of crude eagerness. "You from New York
                        State?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Franklin tells me that Governor Whitman has got in bad, refusing to
                        pardon that fellow Becker. He says he thinks it will hurt him politically.
                        What do you think?"
                    "No," I replied. "I think not. I believe it will
                        help him, if he doesn't injure himself in any other
                        way."
                    "That's what I think," he exclaimed, with a kind
                        of  defiant chuckle. "I never did
                        think he knew what he was talking about."
                    On our way west, as I have indicated, Franklin had been telling me much, of
                        his father's and his own upbringing. They were types, as I judged,
                        not much calculated either to understand or sympathize with each
                        other—Franklin the sensitive, perceptive artist; his father the sheer,
                        aggressive political soldier type. The one had artistic imagination, the
                        other scarcely any imagination at all. I could see that. Yet both had a
                        certain amount of practical understanding backed by conviction, which could
                        easily bring them into conflict. I felt a touch of something here, as though
                        this father would be rather gratified if he could prove his son to be in a
                        false position. It amused me, for I knew from what I had heard that Franklin
                        would be amused too. He was so tolerant.
                    More than that, i discovered a streak in the father which I think is to be
                        found in thousands of countrymen the world over, in all lands, namely, that
                        of pruriency, and that in the face of a rural conventionalism and even a
                        religious bent which frowns on evidence of any tendency in that direction on
                        the part of others, especially those most immediately related to them. Rural
                        life is peculiar in this respect, somewhat different to that of the tribes
                        of the city, who have so much more with which to satisfy themselves. Most
                        isolated countrymen—or perhaps I had better modify that and say many confined
                        to the silences of the woods and fields and the ministrations of one woman,
                        or none—have an intense curiosity in regard to sex; which works out in
                        strange, often nave ways. In this instance it showed itself shortly in
                        connection with some inquiry I made in regard to local politics—how the next
                        election was coming out (I knew that would interest him) and who the local
                        leaders were. Soon this resulted in the production of a worn and dingy slip
                        of paper which he handed me, chuckling.
                    "What do you think of that?" he asked. I took it and read
                        it, smiling the while.
                    It seemed that some local wag—the owner of the principal  drug storehad written and circulated a humorous double entendre description of a golf game and someone's
                        failure as a golfer, which was intended really to show that the man in the
                        case was impotent. You can easily imagine how the thing was worked out. It
                        was cleverly done, and to a grown-up person was quite harmless.
                    But the old gentleman was obviously greatly stirred by it. It fascinated and
                        no doubt shocked him a little (all the more so since sex was over for him)
                        and aroused in him a spirit of mischief.
                    "Well, it's very funny," I said. "Rather
                        good. What of it?"
                    "What do you think of a man that'll get up a thing like
                        that and hand it around where children are apt to get a hold of
                        it?"
                    "As regards the children," I commented,
                        "it's rather bad. I suppose, although I've seen
                        but few children in my life that weren't as sexually minded, if not
                        more so, than their elders. I wouldn't advise putting this in their
                        hands, however. As for grownups, well, it's just a trivial bit of
                        business, I should say," I concluded.
                    "You think so?" he said, restoring the paper to his vest
                        pocket and twinkling his grey eyes.
                    "Yes," I persisted.
                    "Well, the fellow that got this up and handed it around here wants
                        to head the republican county ticket this fall. I think I've got
                        him, with this. I don't mean that he shall."
                    "Do you mean he's a bad character?" I smiled.
                    "Oh, no, not that exactly. He's not a bad fellow, but
                        he's not a good leader. He's got too big a head. he
                        can't win and he oughtn't to be nominated, and I
                        don't mean that he shall be, if I can prevent it."
                    He was chewing tobacco as he talked, quite as a farmer at a fence corner, and
                        now he expectorated solemnly, defiantly, conclusively.
                    "You don't like him personally, then?" I queried,
                        curious as to the reason for this procedure.
                    
                    
                        IN CARMEL Franklin's Home Town
                    
                    
                    "Oh, I like him well enough. He ain't no good as a leader,
                        though—not to my way of thinking."
                    "Do you mean to say you intend to use this against him in the
                        campaign?"
                    "I told him so, and some of the other fellows too, down at the post
                        office the other day. I told him they'd better not nominate him. If
                        they did, I'd circulate this. He knows it'll kill him if I
                        do. I showed it to the Quaker minister here the other night, and he
                        'lowed it ' ud do for him."
                    "What's a Quaker minister?" I asked, suddenly
                        interrupting the main theme of our conversation, curious as to the existence
                        of such an official. "I never heard of the Quakers having a
                        minister. I know they have elders and ministers in a general or democratic
                        sense—men whose counsels are given more or less precedence over that of
                        others, but no particular minister."
                    "Well, they have out here," he replied. "I
                        don't know where or when they got 'em. This one lives
                        right over there next the Quaker Church.
                    "So you have a Quaker Church instead of a meeting house, do
                        you?" I commented.
                    "Yes, and they have congregational singing and an organ,"
                        observed the dark-eyed sister, who was just coming up now. "You
                        don't hear of anything like that in a Friends' meeting
                        house in the East, but you will here tomorrow." She smiled and
                        called us in to breakfast.
                    It appeared that our host had eaten at six A. M., or five, but he came in
                        with me for sociability's sake.
                    The discussion of the pornographic jocosity and its political use was
                        suspended while we had breakfast, but a little later, the veranda being
                        cleared and the old gentleman still sitting here, rocking and ruminating, I
                        said:
                    "Do you mean to say you intend to use that leaflet against this man
                        in case he runs?"
                    "I intend to use it," he replied definitely, but still with
                        a kind of pleasant, chuckling manner, as though it were a great joke.
                        "I don't think they'll nominate him, though, but
                        if they do, it'll kill him sure."
                    
                    He smiled enigmatically and went on rocking.
                    "But you're a republican?"
                    "Yes, I'm a republican."
                    "And he's a republican?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, politics must certainly be stirring things out
                        here," I commented.
                    He chuckled silently, like an old rooster in a garden, the while he moved to
                        and fro in his rocker, ruminating his chew of tobacco, and then finally he
                        added, "It'll do for him sure."
                    I had to smile. The idea of stirring up a fight over so pornographic a
                        document in a strictly religious community, and thus giving it a wider
                        circulation than ever it could have in any other way, by a man who would
                        have called himself religious, I suppose, had an element of humor in it.
                    At breakfast it was that I met the girl who refused to greet me the night
                        before. As I looked at her for the first time, it struck me that life is
                        constantly brewing new draughts of femininity, calculated to bewray or
                        affright the world—Helens or Circes. The moralists and religionists and those
                        who are saintly minded and believe that nature seeks only a conservative or
                        coolly virtuous state have these questions to answer:
                    (1) How is it that for every saint born into the world there is also a cruel
                        or evil minded genius born practically at the same time? The twain are ever
                        present.
                    (2) That for every virtuous maid there is one who has no trace of
                        virtue?—possibly many?
                    (3) That while an evil minded person may be reforming, or an immoral person
                        becoming moral, nature itself (which religion is supposed to be reforming)
                        is breeding others constantly, fresh and fresh, new types of those who, sex
                        hungry or wealth hungry or adventure hungry, have no part or parcel with
                        morality? The best religion or morals appear to be able to do is to contend
                        with nature, which is constantly breeding the un- or immoral, and generating
                        blood lusts which result in all the crimes  we
                        know, and by the same token, all the religions. How is that?
                    These thoughts were generated, more or less, by my observation of this girl,
                        for as I looked at her, solid and dimpling, I felt certain that here nature
                        had bred another example of that type of person whom the moralists are
                        determined to look upon as oversexed. She had all the provocative force that
                        goes with a certain kind of beauty. I am not saying that she was so—merely
                        that it was so she impressed me. Her mouth, for one thing, was full—pouty—and
                        she was constantly changing its expression, as if aware of its import. Her
                        eyes were velvety and swimming. Her neck and arms were heavy—rounded in a
                        sensuous way. She walked with what to me seemed a distinct consciousness of
                        the lines of her body, although as a matter of fact she may not have been.
                        She was preternaturally shy and evasive, looking about as if something very
                        serious were about to happen, as if she had to be most careful of her ways
                        and looks, and yet really not being so. Her whole manner was at once an
                        invitation and repulsion—the two carefully balanced so as to produce a static
                        and yet an irritating state. I half liked and disliked her. If she had been
                        especially friendly, no doubt I should, have liked her very much. Since she
                        was so wholly evasive, I fancied that I could dislike her quite as much.
                    And at that we got on fairly well. I made no friendly overtures of any kind,
                        and yet I half felt as if she might be expecting something of the kind. She
                        hung about for a time, came to and fro, and then disappeared. She changed
                        her dress while we were down town, and seemed even more attractive. She came
                        out and sat on the porch next to me for a time, and I tried to talk to her,
                        but she made me feel uncomfortable, as though I were trying to force
                        attentions on her.
                    Apparently she was as much a puzzle to some others as she was to me, for
                        Franklin told me that she had once run away from the academy where she was
                        being schooled, and had come here instead, her parents being  dead and these being her nearest friends or
                        relatives. Her guardian, appointed by law, was greatly troubled by her.
                        Also, that she had quite a little money coming to her, and that once she had
                        expressed a desire to be given a horse and gun and allowed to go west—a
                        sixteen-year-old girl! She told me, among other things, that she wanted to
                        go on the stage, or into moving picture work. I could not help looking at
                        her and wondering what storms and disasters might not follow in the wake of
                        such a temperament. She would be so truly fascinating and possibly utterly
                        destructive.
                    In connection with this type of temperament or at any rate the temperament
                        which is not easily fixed in one passional vise, I have this to say: that,
                        in spite of all the theories which hold in regard to morals and monogamy,
                        life in general appears to be chronically and perhaps incurably varietistic
                        and pluralistic in Its tastes and emotions. We hear much of one life, one
                        love, but how many actually attain to that ideal—if it is one. Personally I
                        have found it not only possible, but by a curious and entirely fortuitous
                        combination of circumstances almost affectionately unavoidable, to hold
                        three, four—even as many as five and six—women in regard or the emotional
                        compass of myself, at one and the same time, not all to the same degree,
                        perhaps, or in the same way, but each for certain qualities which the others
                        do not possess. I will not attempt to dignify this by the name of love. I do
                        not assume for a moment that it is love, but that it is a related state is
                        scarcely to be questioned. Whether it is a weakness or a strength remains to
                        be tested by results in individual cases. To some it might prove fatal, to
                        others not. Witness the Mormons! As for myself I do not think it is. Some of
                        my most dramatic experiences and sufferings, as well as my keenest mental
                        illuminations, have resulted from intimate, affectionate contact with women.
                        I have learned most from those strange, affectionately dependent and yet
                        artistic souls who somehow crave physical and spiritual sympathy in the
                        great dark or light in which we find ourselves—  this very brief hour here. Observing their moods, their vanities, their
                        sanities, their affectional needs, I have seen how absolutely impossible it
                        is to balance up the socalled needs of life in any satisfactory manner, or
                        to establish an order which, however seemingly secure for the time being,
                        will not in the end dry rot or decay.
                    I say it out of the depths of my life and observation that there is no system
                        ever established anywhere which is wholly good. If you establish matrimony
                        and monogamy, let us say, and prove that it is wholly ideal for social
                        entertainment, or the rearing and care of children, you at once shut out the
                        fact that it is the death of affectional and social experience—that it is
                        absolutely inimical to the roving and free soul which must comb the world
                        for understanding, and that the spectacles which entertain the sober and
                        stationary in art, literature, science, indeed every phase of life, would
                        never be if all maintained the order and quiet which monogamy suggests.
                    Yet monogamy is good—nothing better for its purpose. Two souls are entitled to
                        cling together in affectional embrace forever and ever, if they can. It is
                        wholly wonderful and beautiful. But if all did so, where, then, would be a
                        story like Carmen, for instance, or an opera like Tristan and Isolde, or I
                        Pagliacci, or Madame Butterfly, or Louise? If we all accepted a lock-step
                        routine, or were compelled to—but need I really argue? Is not life at its
                        very best anachronistic? Does it not grow by horrible alternatives—going so
                        far along one line, on one leg, as it were, and then suddenly abandoning
                        everything in that direction (to sudden decay and death, perhaps) and as
                        suddenly proceeding in an entirely different direction (apparently) on the
                        other leg? All those who find their fixed conditions, their orders and
                        stable states suddenly crumbling about them are inclined to cry:
                        "There is no God," "Life is a cruel
                        hell," "Man is a beast—an insane egoist."
                    Friends, let me suggest something. Have faith to believe that there is a
                        larger intelligence at work which  does not
                        care for you or me at all—or if it does, only to this extent, that it desires
                        to use us as a carpenter does his tools, and does use us, whether we will or
                        no. There is some idle scheme of entertainment (possibly self-entertainment)
                        which is being accomplished by some power which is not necessarily outside
                        man, but working through him, of which he, in part, is the expression. This
                        power, in so far as we happen to be essential or useful to it, appears
                        beneficent. A great or successful person might be inclined to look on it in
                        that light. On the other hand, one not so useful, a physical failure, for
                        instance—one blind or halt or maimed—would look upon it as maleficent, a
                        brooding, destructive demon, rejoicing in evil. Neither hypothesis is
                        correct. It is as good as the successful and happy feel it to be—as bad as
                        the miserable think it is bad—only it is neither. It is something so large
                        and strange and above our understanding that it can scarcely sense the pain
                        or joy of one single individual—only the pains or joys of masses.
                    It recognizes only a mass delight or a mass sorrow. Can you share, or
                        understand, the pains or delights of any one single atom in your body? You
                        cannot. Why may there not be an oversoul that bears the same relationship to
                        you that you bear to the individual atoms or ions of your physical cosmos?
                        Some undernourished, partially developed ion in you may cry, "The
                        power which rules me is a devil." But you are not a devil. Nor does
                        it necessarily follow that the thing that makes you is one. You really could
                        not help that particular atom if you would. So over us may be this oversoul
                        which is as helpless in regard to us as we are in regard to our constituent
                        atoms. It is a product of something else still larger—above it. There is no
                        use trying to find out what that is. Let the religionist call it God if he
                        will, or the sufferer a devil. Do you bring all your fortitude and courage
                        to bear, and do all that you can to keep yourself busy—serenely employed.
                        There is no other answer. Get all you can that will make you or others
                        happy. Think as seriously as you may. Count 
                        all the costs and all the dangers—or don't count them, just as you
                        will—but live as fully and intelligently as you can. If, in spite of cross
                        currents of mood and passion, you can make any other or others happy, do so.
                        It will be hard at best. But strive to be employed. It is the only surcease
                        against the evil of too much thought.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLV
                    AN INDIANA VILLAGE
                    WHILE we were sitting on the veranda—Franklin's
                        father and myself—Speed came by on his way down town, and Mr. Booth, having
                        gathered a sense of approval, perhaps, for the pornographic document from my
                        attitude, drew it out and showed it to him.
                    "Gee!" exclaimed Speed, after reading it. "I must
                        get some of those."
                    Soon after, Franklin came out and, seeing the document and reading it, seemed
                        troubled over the fact that his father should be interested in such a thing.
                        I think he felt that it threw an unsatisfactory light on his sire, or that
                        I, not understanding, might think so; but, after I made it clear that it was
                        more or less of a Cervantesque bit of humor to me, he became more
                        cheerful.
                    A little while thereafter we went downtown, Franklin and I, to inspect the
                        village, and to see some of those peculiar natives of whom he had been
                        talking. I think he must have a much better eye for rural and countryside
                        types and their idiosyncrasies than I have, for I failed to gather any of
                        those gay nuances which somehow he had made me feel were there. Little
                        things in rural life which probably attract and hold his attention entirely
                        escape me, as, for instance, the gaunt and spectacled old gentleman looking
                        over his glasses into the troublesome works of his very small Ford. My own
                        powers of observation in that direction, and my delight in them, are limited
                        to a considerable extent by my sense of drama. Is a thing dramatic? Or at
                        least potentially so? If not, it is apt to lose interest for me. As for
                        Franklin, he was never weary of pointing out little things, and I enjoyed
                        almost more of what was to be seen here and elsewhere  because of his powers of indication than from my own
                        observation.
                    Thus, on the way west, he had been telling me of one man who was almost
                        always more or less sick, or thought he was, because, through one of the
                        eccentricities of hypochondria, he discovered that one got more attention,
                        if not sympathy, being sick than well. And when we came to the postoffice
                        door here he was before it, complaining of a pain in his chest! It seemed to
                        me, in looking at him, that by a process of thinking, if that were really
                        true, he had made himself ill. He looked "very poorly," as
                        he expressed it, and as though he might readily sink into a destructive
                        illness. Yet Franklin assured me that there had really been nothing the
                        matter with him to begin with, but that jealousy of sympathy bestowed upon a
                        cripple, the one who was to run our car for us south from here, had caused
                        him to resort to this method of getting some for himself!
                    Also, there was another young man who had been described to me as a village
                        wag—one of three or four who were certain to amuse me; but when he now came
                        forward to greet me, and I was told that this was the person, I was not very
                        much interested. He was of the type that has learned to consider himself
                        humorous, necessarily so, with a reputation for humor to sustain.
                        "I must be witty," says such a one to himself, and so the
                        eye is always cocked, the tongue or body set for a comic remark or movement.
                        The stranger feels obliged by the very atmosphere which goes with such a
                        person to smile anticipatorially, as who should say, something deliciously
                        funny is soon to be said. I did not hear anything very humorous said,
                        however.
                    Incidentally, I also met Bert, the crippled boy, who was to be our chauffeur
                        south from this point. He was a youth in whose career Franklin seemed
                        greatly interested, largely, I think, because other people of the village
                        were inclined to be indifferent to or make sport of him. The boy was very
                        bright and of a decidedly determined and characterful nature. Although both
                        legs,  below the hips, but not below the
                        ankles, were practically useless, due to a schooltime wrestling bout and
                        fall, he managed with the aid of a pair of crutches to get about with
                        considerable ease and speed. There was no least trace of weakness or
                        complaint or need of sympathy in his manner. Indeed, he seemed more
                        self-reliant and upstanding than most of the other people I met here. How,
                        so crippled, he would manage to run the car puzzled me. Franklin's
                        father had already expressed himself to me as opposed to the idea.
                    "I can't understand what he sees in that fellow,"
                        he said to me early this morning. "He's reckless little
                        devil, and I don't think he really knows anything about machinery.
                        Frank will stick to him, though. If it were my machine, I wouldn't
                        have him near it."
                    Now that I looked at Bert, though, I felt that he had so much courage and
                        hope and optimism—such an intriguing look in his eyes—that I quite envied him.
                        He was assistant mail clerk or something at the post office, and when I came
                        up and had been introduced through the window, he promptly handed me out
                        several letters. When I told Franklin what his father had said, he merely
                        smiled. "The old man is always talking like that," he
                        said. "Bert's all right. He's better than
                        Speed."
                    It takes a certain slow-moving type of intellect to enjoy or endure life in a
                        small country town. To be a doctor in a place like this! or a lawyer! or a
                        merchant! or a clerk!
                    In the main, in spite of many preliminary descriptions, Carmel did not
                        interest me as much as I thought it would, or might. It was interesting—as
                        one says with the wave of a hand or a shrug of the shoulders. Of more import
                        to me was the Booth household, and the peculiar girl who would not come out
                        to greet me at first, and Franklin's father and mother and sister.
                        This day passed rather dully, reading proofs which had been sent me and
                        listening to passing expresses which tore through here northward and
                        southward, to and from Indianapolis, only fifteen miles away—never even
                        hesitating, as  the negro said—and listening to
                        the phonograph, on which I put all the records I could find. Three
                        recitations by James Whitcomb Riley, "Little Orphant
                        Annie," "The Raggedy Man" and "My
                        Grandfather Squeers," captured my fancy so strongly that I spent
                        several hours just listening to them over and over, they were so delightful.
                        Then I would vary my diet with Tchaikowsky, Mendelssohn, Beethoven and Bert
                        Williams.
                    During the afternoon Franklin and I went for a walk in a nearby woods—a beech
                        and oak grove—the beeches occupying one section and the oaks another. Truly,
                        grey and lowery described this day. It was raining, but in addition the
                        clouds hung so low and thick and dark that they were almost smothery in
                        their sense of closeness. And it was warm and damp, quite like a Turkish
                        bath. I had arrayed myself in great thigh-length rubber boots borrowed from
                        Franklin's father, and my raincoat and a worthless old cap, so that
                        I was independent of the long, dripping wet grass and the frequent pools of
                        water.
                    "I know what I'll do," I exclaimed suddenly.
                        "I'll go in swimming. It's just the day.
                        Fine!"
                    When we reached the stream in the depth of the woods I was even more
                        enchanted with the idea, the leafy depth of the hollow was so dark and wet,
                        the water so seething and yellow, a veritable whirlpool, made so by the
                        heavy rains everywhere about. Franklin would not come in with me. Instead,
                        he stood on the shore and told me local tales of growths and deaths and
                        mishaps and joys to many.
                    My problem was how to undress without getting my clothes wet and my feet so
                        muddy when I came out that I could not put on my boots. By thought I solved
                        it. I took off my raincoat, spread it down on the shore as a floor, then
                        took off my boots and stood on it, dry and clean. Under one corner of it I
                        tucked all my clothes to protect them from the rain; then, naked, I plunged
                        into the swirling, boiling flood. It nearly swept me away, so terrific was
                        the onslaught of the waters. I caught a branch hanging low, and, with my
                        feet braced  against a few rocks below, lay
                        flat and let the water rush over me. It was wonderful to lie in this warm,
                        yellow water, a bright gold color, really, and feel it go foaming over my
                        breast and arms and legs. It tugged at me so, quite like a wrestling man,
                        that I had to fight it to keep up. My arms ached after a time, but I hung
                        on, loving the feel of it. Sticks and leaves went racing past. I would kick
                        up a stone and instantly it would be swept onward toward some better lodging
                        place farther down. I figured an angle finally by which I could make shore,
                        letting go and paddling sidewise, and so I did, coming up bumped and
                        scratched, but happy. Then I dipped my feet in the water, stood on my
                        raincoat, drying myself with my handkerchief, and finally, dressed and
                        refreshed, strode up shore.
                    Then we went off flower gathering, and made a big bouquet of iron weed. He
                        told me how for years he had been coming to this place, how he loved the
                        great oaks and the silvery beeches, huddled in a friendly company to the
                        north, and how he had always wanted to paint them and some day would. The
                        mania people have for cutting their names on beech trunks came up, for here
                        were so many covered with lover's hearts—their names inside—and so
                        many inscriptions, all but obliterated by time that I could not help
                        thinking how lives flow by quite like the water in the stream below.
                    Then we went back, to a fine chicken dinner and a banana pie made especially
                        for me, and the phonograph and the rushing trains, the whistles of which I
                        was never tired hearing—they sounded so sad.
                    Another black, rainy night, and then the next morning the sun came up on one
                        of the most perfect days imaginable. It was dewy and glistening and fragrant
                        and colorful—a wonder world. What with the new wet trees and grass as cool
                        and delightful as any day could be, it was like paradise. There was a warm
                        south wind. I went out on the lawn and played ball with Franklin, missing
                        three fourths of all throws and nearly breaking my thumb. I sat on the porch
                        and looked over the morning  paper, watching
                        the outing automobiles of many natives go spinning by and feeling my share
                        in that thrill and tingle which comes over the world on a warm Sunday
                        morning in summer. It was so lovely. You could just feel that everybody
                        everywhere was preparing to have a good time and that nothing mattered much.
                        All the best Sunday suits, all the new straw hats, all the dainty frocks,
                        all the everything were being brought forth and put on. Franklin disappeared
                        for an hour and came back looking so spick and span and altogether
                        Sunday—summery—and like Ormonde and Miami Beach, that I felt quite out of it.
                        I had a linen suit and white shoes and a sport hat, but somehow I felt that
                        they were a little uncalled for here, and my next best wasn't as
                        good as his. Curses! He even had on perfect, glistening, glorious patent
                        leather shoes, and a new blue suit.
                    It was while I was sitting here inwardly groaning over my fate that a young
                        girl came swinging up, one of the most engaging I had seen anywhere on this
                        trip—a lithe, dancing figure, with bright blue eyes, chestnut hair and an
                        infectious smile. I had observed her approaching some seventy feet away, and
                        beside her Speed, and I was wondering whether she was merely a town girl of
                        his acquaintance or by any chance that half sister of whom I had heard
                        Franklin and Speed speaking on the way west, saying that she was very
                        talented and was hoping to come to New York to study music. Before I had
                        time to do more than compliment her in my mind, she was here before me,
                        having tripped across the grass in a fascinating way, and was holding out a
                        hand and laughing into my eyes.
                    "We've been hearing about your coming for several days now.
                        Speed wrote us nearly a week ago that you might, come."
                    It flattered me to be so much thought of.
                    "I've been hearing nice things of you, too," said,
                        studying her pretty nose and chin and the curls about her forehead. In any
                            apologia pro vita sua which I may  ever compose, I will confess frankly and heartily to a
                        weakness for beauty in the opposite sex.
                    She seemed inclined to talk, but was a little bashful. From her general
                        appearance I gathered that she was not only of a gay, lightsome disposition,
                        but a free soul, spiritually as yet not depressed by the local morality of
                        the day—the confining chains of outward appearances and inward, bonehead
                        fears. I had the feeling that she was beginning to be slightly sex conscious
                        without having solved any of its intricacies as yet—just a humming bird,
                        newly on the wing. She hung about, answering and asking questions of no
                        import. Presently Speed had to leave and she went along, with a brisk,
                        swinging step. As she neared the corner of the lawn she turned just for a
                        second and smiled.
                    Apropos of this situation and these two girls who curiously and almost in
                        spite of myself were uppermost in my mind—the second one most particularly, I
                        should like to say—that of all things in life which seem to me to be dull and
                        false, it is the tendency of weak souls in letters and in life to gloze over
                        this natural chemical action and reaction between the sexes, to which we are
                        all subject, and to make a pretence that our thoughts are something which
                        they are not—sweet, lovely, noble, pure. It has become a duty among males and
                        females, quite too much so, I think, to conceal from each other and from
                        themselves, even, the fact that physical beauty in the opposite sex stirs
                        them physically and mentally, naturally leading to thoughts of union.
                    What has come over life that it has become so superfine in its moods? Why
                        should we make such a puritanic row over the natural instincts of man? I
                        will admit that in part nature herself is the cause of this, the instinct to
                        restrain being possibly as great as the instinct to liberate, and that she
                        demands that you make a pretence and live a lie, only it seems to me it
                        would be a little better for the mental health of the race if it were more
                        definitely aware of this. Certainly it ought not be connected  with religious illusion. It may not be
                        possible, because of the varying temperaments of people, for anyone to
                        express what he feels or thinks at any precise moment—its reception is too
                        uncertain—but surely it is permissible in print, which is not unakin in its
                        character to the Catholic confessional, to say what one knows to be so.
                    All normal men crave women—and particularly beautiful women. All married men
                        and priests are supposed, by the mere sacrament of matrimony or holy orders,
                        thereafter to feel no interest in any but one (or in the case of the priest
                        none) of the other sex—or if they do, to rigidly suppress such desires. But
                        men are men! And the women—many married and unmarried onesdon't want
                        them to be otherwise. Life is a dizzy, glittering game of trapping and
                        fishing and evading, and slaying and pursuing, despite all the religious and
                        socalled moral details by which we surround it. Nature itself has an intense
                        love of the chase. It loves snares, pitfalls, gins, traps, masks and
                        mummeries, and even murder and death—yes, very much murder and death. It
                        loves nothing so much as to build up a papier-mch wall of convention, and
                        then slip round or crash through it. It has erected a phantasmagoria of laws
                        which no one can understand, and no one can strictly adhere to without
                        disaster, and to which few do strictly adhere. Justice, truth, mercy, right
                        are all abstractions and not to be come at by any series of weights or
                        measures. We pocket our unfair losses of unearned gains and smile at our
                        luck. Curiously, in finance and commercial affairs men understand this and
                        accept it as a not altogether bad game. It has the element in it which they
                        recognize as sport. When it comes to sex, the feeling becomes somewhat more
                        serious. A man who will smile at the loss of a hundred, a thousand, or even
                        a million dollars, will pull a grim countenance over the loss of a wife or a
                        daughter. Death is the price in the judgment of some temperaments. In others
                        it is despair. Why? And yet nature plans these traps and pitfalls. It is the
                        all mother who schemes the  Circe and Hellenic
                        temperaments—the fox, the wolf, the lion. A raging, destroying bull, which
                        insists on gormandizing all the females of a herd, is the product of nature,
                        not of man. Man did not make the bull or the stallion, nor did they make
                        themselves. Is nature to be controlled, made over, by man, according to some
                        theory which man, a product of nature, has discovered?
                    Gentlemen, here is food for a dozen schools of philosophy! Personally, I do
                        not see that any theory or any code or any religion that has yet been
                        devised solves anything. All that one can intelligently say is that they
                        satisfy certain temperaments. Like those theorems and formulæ in algebra and
                        chemistry, which aid the student without solving anything in themselves,
                        they make the living of life a little easier—for some. They are not a
                        solution. They do not make over temperaments which are not adapted to their
                        purposes. They do not assist the preternaturally weak, or restrain the
                        super-strong. They merely, like a certain weave of mesh in fishing, hold
                        some and let others get away—the very big and the very little.
                    What sort of moralic scheme is that, anyhow, which governs thus? And why is
                        poor, dull man such a universal victim of it?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVI
                    A SENTIMENTAL INTERLUDE
                    AS we had planned it, we were to stay in Carmel only three
                        days—from Friday until Monday—and then race south to Indianapolis, Terre
                        Haute, Sullivan, Evansville, French Lick, Bloomington, back to Indianapolis,
                        and after a day or night at Carmel for preparation, I might depart as I had
                        planned, or I could stay here. Franklin suggested that I make his home my
                        summering place—my room was mine for weeks if I cared to use it.
                    Actually up to now I had been anxious to get on and have the whole trip done
                        with, but here in Carmel I developed a desire to stay and rest awhile, the
                        country about was so very simple and homey; but I concluded that I must
                        not.
                    Franklin had prepared a trip for Sunday afternoon which interested me very
                        much. It was to be to the home of a celebrated automobile manufacturer, now
                        dead, whose name, incidentally, had been in the papers for years, first as
                        the President of the American Manufacturers Association, a very noble
                        organization of materialists, I take it, and secondarily as the most
                        strenuous opponent of organized labor that the country up to his day had
                        produced. I hold no brief for organized labor any more than I do for
                        organized manufacturers, being firmly convinced that both are entitled to
                        organize and fight and that to the victors should belong the spoils; but at
                        the present writing I would certainly sympathize with organized labor as
                        being in the main the underdog, and wish it all the luck in the world.
                        Personally, I believe in equilibrium, with a healthy swinging of the
                        pendulum of life and time to and fro between the rich  and the poor—a pendulum which should cast down the rich of
                        today and elevate them again tomorrow, or others like them, giving the
                        underdog the pleasure of being the overdog quite regularly, and vice versa.
                        I think that is what makes life interesting, if it is
                        interesting.
                    But as to this manufacturer, in spite of the entirely friendly things
                        Franklin had to say of him, I had heard many other stories relating to
                        him—his contentiousness, his rule of underpaying his labor, the way he
                        finally broke down on a trip somewhere and forgot all the details of it, a
                        blank space in his mind covering a period of two years. Franklin told me of
                        his home, which was much more pleasant to hear about—a place down by a river
                        near Indianapolis. According to Franklin, a good part of the estate was
                        covered with a grove of wonderful trees, mostly beech. As you came to the
                        place there was a keeper's lodge by the gate which made you feel as
                        if you were entering the historic domain of some old nobleman. The house was
                        along a beautiful winding drive, bordered with a hedge of all sorts of
                        flowers usually in bloom all through the summer. The house was very much
                        hidden among the beech trees, a large red brick structure with many windows
                        and tall chimneys; the lower story constructed of large field boulders, such
                        as are found here. At the front and at the left of the main entrance this
                        masonry projected to make an immense porch, with wide massive arches and
                        posts of the same great boulders.
                    "The first time I ever saw it," Franklin explained,
                        "I stepped out of the car and went up to ring the bell. It was a
                        warm day, and Mrs.— was sitting alone at the left end of this great porch,
                        quietly observing a colored man servant who was playing a hose on the vines
                        and the main inside wall of the porch, apparently to partly cool the
                        atmosphere. She is a little, sweet, quiet woman, and as she rose to greet
                        me, something in the great house and the boulders and in the quietness of
                        the forest air about us, and perhaps in the gentle humility of the woman
                        herself, came to me and impressed  me with the
                        utter futility of building houses at all; and of any man building a house
                        beyond the ability of a woman to touch lovingly with her hands and to care
                        for and make a home of. Some time later when I entered the house she was
                        sitting alone in the great hall in the sort of dusk that pervaded it. I
                        somehow felt that the house opposed her; that it was her enemy. I
                        don't know; I may be wrong; it was only an
                        impression."
                    I have reproduced Franklin's description as near as I can.
                    Of course I was interested to go. It promised a fine afternoon; only when the
                        hour struck and we were off in our best feathers, two tires blew up and we
                        were lucky to get to a garage. We limped back to Carmel, and I returned to
                        my rocking chair on the front porch, watching cars from apparently all over
                        the state go by, and wondering what had become of the two girls I had
                        met—they had disappeared for the day, apparently—and what could I do to amuse
                        myself. I listened to stories of local eccentricities, freaks of character,
                        a man who had died and left a most remarkable collection of stuffed birds
                        and animals, quite a museum, which he had elaborated while running a bakery,
                        or something of that sortand so on and so forth. Local morality came in for
                        its usual drubbing—the lies which people live—the things which they seem and
                        are not. Personally, I like this subtlety of nature—I would not have all
                        things open and aboveboard for anything. I like pretence when it is not
                        snivelling, Pecksniffery, calculated to injure someone for the very crimes
                        or deceits which you yourself are committing. Such rats should always be
                        pulled from their holes and exposed to the light.
                    Sitting on the veranda—Franklin felt called upon to do some work in his
                        studio, a very attractive building at the rear of the lawn—I grew lonely and
                        even despondent! It is a peculiarity of my nature that I suffer these spells
                        out of a clear sky and at a moment's notice. I can be having the
                        best time in the world, apparently (I am often amused thinking about it),
                        and then  of a sudden, the entertainment
                        ceasing, the situation changing, I find myself heavily charged with gloom. I
                        am getting old! (I had these same spells at nineteen and twenty.) Life is
                        slipping on and away! Relatives and friends are dying! Nothing endures! Fame
                        is a damned mockery! Affection is insecure or self-destroying! Soon I am in
                        the last stages of despair and looking around for some means (speculatively
                        purely) to end it all. It is really too amusing—afterwards.
                    
                    While I was so meditating the first young girl came back, with that elusive,
                        enigmatic smile of hers, and two underdone striplings of about eighteen or
                        nineteen, and another girl, intended largely as a foil. She was most
                        becomingly and tantalizingly dressed in something which defies description,
                        and played croquet—with the two youths who were persistently seeking her
                        favor and ignoring the other maiden. I watched her until I became irritated
                        by her coy self sufficiency, and the art with which she was managing the
                        situation,—a thing which included me as someone to disturb, too. I got up and
                        moved round to the other side of the house.
                    That night after dinner, Franklin and I went to Indianapolis on the trolley,
                        and ignoring all the sights went to a great hotel grill, where, entirely
                        surrounded by onyx and gilt and prism-hung candelabra, we had beer in a
                        teapot, with teacups as drinking vessels, it being "against the
                        law" to serve beer on Sunday. For the same reason it cost seventy
                        cents—two humble "schooners" of beer—for of course there was
                        the service and the dear waiter with his itching palm.
                    By ten-thirty the next morning the car, overhauled and cleaned, was at the
                        door, our new chauffeur at the wheel, ready for the run south.
                    I carried my bags down, put them into the car, and sat in it to wait.
                        Franklin was off somewhere, in the heart of the village, arranging
                        something. Suddenly I heard a voice. It had the tone I expected. Actually, I
                        had anticipated it, in a psychic way. Looking up and 
                        
                            THE BEST OF INDIANAPOLIS
                        
                         across a space of lawn two houses away, I saw
                        the second girl of this meeting place standing out under an apple tree, with
                        a little boy beside her, an infant the Speed family had adopted.
                    She was most gay in her dress and mood—something eery and sylph-like.
                    "Aren't you coming over to say goodby?" she
                        called.
                    I jumped up, ashamed of my lack of gallantry, and yet excusing myself on the
                        ground that I was too timid to intrude before, and strolled over. She
                        received me with a disturbed cordiality which was charming.
                    "It's right mean of you," she said.
                    "I was coming," I protested, "only I expected to
                        put it over until Thursday—on my way back. That sounds rather bad,
                        doesn't it, but really I wanted to come, only I was a little bit
                        afraid."
                    "You—afraid?"
                    "Yes. Don't you think I can be?"
                    "Yes, but not of us, I should think. I thought maybe you were going
                        away for good without saying goodby."
                    "Now, how could you?" I protested, knowing full well to the
                        contrary. "How nice we look today. Such a pretty dress and the
                        clean white shoes—and the ribbon."
                    She was as gay and fluffy as a bit out of a bandbox. "Oh, no, I just
                        put these on because I had to wear them about the house this
                        morning." She smiled in a simple, agreeable way, only I fancied
                        that she might have dressed on purpose.
                    "Well, anyhow," I said—and we began to talk of school and
                        her life and what she wanted to do. Just as I was becoming really
                        interested, Franklin appeared, carrying a package. "Alas, here he
                        is. And now I'll have to be going soon."
                    "Yes," she said, quite simply, and with a little feeling.
                        "You'll be coming back, though."
                    "But only for a day, I'm afraid."
                    "But you won't go away the next time without saying goodby,
                        will you?"
                    
                    "Isn't that kind of you," I replied. "Are
                        you sure you want me to say goodby?"
                    "Indeed I do. I'll feel hurt if you
                        don't." She held out her hand. There was a naïve simplicity
                        about it all that quite disarmed me and made it all innocent and
                        charming.
                    "Don't you think I won't?" asked,
                        teasingly. And then as I looked at her she blanched in an odd, disturbed
                        way, and turning to the boy called, "Come on, Billy," and
                        ran to a side porch door, smiling back at me.
                    "You won't forget," she called back from that safe
                        place.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVII
                    INDIANAPOLIS AND A GLIMPSE OF FAIRYLAND
                    INDIANAPOLIS, the first city on our way south and west,
                        was another like Cleveland, Buffalo, Toledo, only without the advantage of a
                        great lake shore which those cities possess. It is boasted as one of the
                        principal railroad centers of America, or the world. Good, but what of it?
                        Once you have seen the others, it has nothing to teach you, and I grow tired
                        of the mere trade city devoid of any plan or charm of natural surroundings.
                        The best of the European cities, or of later years, Chicago and New
                        York—Chicago from the lake, vast, frowning giant that it is, and New York,
                        like a pearly cloud lying beyond her great green wet meadows on her sea—ho,
                        Americans, there are two pictures! Travel far and wide, see all that the
                        earth has to show, view Delhi, Venice, Karnak, the sacred temples of the
                        Ganges—there are no such scenes as these. Already one beholds them with a
                        kind of awe, conscious that they may not be duplicated within a thousand or
                        two thousands of years. What could be more astounding than New
                        York's financial area, or Chicago's commercial heart!
                    All that these minor American cities like Indianapolis (and I do not wish to
                        belittle my own state or its capital) have to show is a few high buildings
                        in imitation of New York or Chicago. If any one of them had any natural
                        advantages which would suggest a difference in treatment, they would not
                        follow it. No, no, let us be like Chicago or New York—as like as we may. A
                        few artistic low buildings might have more appeal, but that would not be
                        like New York. A city may even have been laid out perfectly, like Savannah,
                        but do you think  it appreciates its
                        difference sufficiently to wish to remain so? Never! Destroy the old, the
                        different, and let's be like New York! Every time I see one of
                        these tenth-rate imitations, copying these great whales, I want to
                        swear.
                    Yet, aside from this, Indianapolis was not so bad—not unpleasing in places,
                        really. There is a river there, the White, with which nothing seems to have
                        been done except to build factories on it at one place; but, on the other
                        hand, a creek called Broad Ripple—pretty name, that—has been walled and parked
                        and made most agreeable to look upon.
                    One or two streets, it seemed to me, were rather striking, lined as they were
                        with pretentious dwellings and surrounded by gardens and enclosed in
                        walls—but, oh, the little streets, the little streets!
                    "Here is where Senator Fairbanks lives."
                    "There is where Benjamin Harrison lived before he became
                        President."
                    Quite so! Quite so! But I am thinking of the little streets just the same,
                        and the great, inordinate differences between things at times.
                    Franklin pointed out the First and Second Churches of Christ, Scientist—large,
                        artistic, snow-white buildings—and a little later, at my request, the home of
                        James Whitcomb Riley, laureate of all that perfect company of Hoosiers to be
                        found in his sympathetic, if small, volumes. I revere James Whitcomb with a
                        whole heart. There is something so delicate, so tender, so innocent not only
                        about his work but about him. His house in Lockerbie Street was about as old
                        and homely as it could be, as indeed was Lockerbie Street itself—but, shucks,
                        who cares. Let the senators and the ex-presidents and the beef packers have
                        the big places. What should the creator of "Old Doc
                        Sifers" be doing in a great house, anyhow? Think of
                        "Little Orphant Annie" being born in a mansion! Never.
                        Only over my dead body. We didn't go in. I wanted to, but I felt a
                        little bashful. As I say, I had heard that he didn't approve of me.
                        I suggested  that we might come another time,
                        Franklin knowing him quite well; but I knew I wouldn't. Yet all my
                        loving thoughts went out to him—most sympathetic and pleasing wishes for a
                        long life and a happy life.
                    The run to Terre Haute was more or less uninteresting, a flat and lifeless
                        country. We arrived there at nearly dusk, entering along a street whose name
                        was changed to Wabash shortly after my brother's song became so
                        popular. Among the first things I saw were the buildings and grounds of the
                        Rose Polytechnic Institute—an institution which, famous though it is, was
                        only of interest to me because the man who founded it, Chauncey Rose, was
                        once a friend and admirer of my father's. At the time my
                        father's mill burned in Sullivan and he was made penniless, it was
                        this man who came forward and urged him to begin anew, offering to advance
                        him the money. But my father was too much of a religious and financial and
                        moral coward to risk it. He was doubtful of success—his nerve had been
                        broken—and he feared he might not be able to repay Mr. Rose and so, in event
                        of his dying, his soul would be in danger of purgatory. Of such is the
                        religious mind.
                    But this city of my birth! Now that I was in it, it had a strong and mournful
                        fascination for me. Nothing that I was doing or being was altered thereby,
                        but—
                    Suppose, once upon a time in a very strange wonderland, so wonderful that no
                        mere earthborn mortal could tell anything about it or make you feel how
                        wonderful it was, you had been a very little boy who had gotten in there
                        somehow (how, he could not tell) and after a very few years had been taken
                        out again and never after that saw it any more. And that during that time
                        many strange and curious things happened—things so strange and curious that,
                        though you lived many years afterward and wandered here and there and to and
                        fro upon the earth, still the things that happened in that wonderland, the
                        colors of it and the sounds and the voices and the  trees, were ever present, like a distant mirage or a
                        background of very far off hills, but still present.
                    And supposing, let us say, that in this strange land there was once a house,
                        or two or three or four or five houses, what difference? In one of them
                        (someone later said it stood at Twelfth and Walnut in a city called Terre
                        Haute, but if you went there now you could not find it) there was a cellar,
                        damp and dark. The mother of the little boy, to whose skirts he used to
                        cling when anything troubled or frightened him, once told him that in the
                        cellar of this house lived a Cat-man, and that if he went near it, let alone
                        down into it, the Cat-man might appear and seize him and carry him off.
                    The small boy firmly believed in the Cat-man. He listened at times and
                        thought he heard him below stairs, stirring about among the boxes and
                        barrels there. In his mind's eye he saw him, large and dark and
                        toothy, a Hottentot's dream of a demon. Finally, after meditating
                        over it awhile, he got his brother Ed and conferred with him about it. They
                        decided that Prince, the family dog, might help to chase the Cat-man out,
                        and so rid them of this evil. Prince, the dog, was no coward; a friendly,
                        gay, and yet ferocious animal. He was yellow and lithe, a fighter. He
                        plainly believed in the Cat-man too (upon request, anyhow), for the cellar
                        stairs door being opened and the presence of the Catman indicated, he
                        sniffed and barked and made such an uproar that the mother of the children
                        came out and made them go into the yard. And then they heard her laughing
                        over the reality of the Cat-man, and exclaiming: "Yes, indeed,
                        you'd just better be careful and not go down there. He'll
                        catch Prince too!"
                    But then there was a certain tree in this same yard or garden where once of a
                        spring evening, at dusk, there was a strange sound being made, a sawing and
                        rasping which in later years the boy was made quite well aware was a locust.
                        But just at that time, at that age, in that strange land, with the soft,
                        amethystine shadows pouring about the world, it seemed as though it must be
                        the Catman  come at last out of the cellar and
                        gotten into the tree. The child was all alone. His mother was in the house.
                        Sitting on the back porch meditating over the childish interests of the day,
                        this sound began—and then the next minute he was frantically clasping his
                        mother's knees, burying his face in her skirts and weeping.
                        "The Cat-man! The Cat-man!" (Oh, what a horror! sawing
                        there in that tree and leering! The child saw his eyes!)
                    And then the mother said: "No, there isn't any Catman; it
                        is all a foolish fancy. There, there!" But to the child, for a long
                        time, he was real enough, just the same.
                    And then there was "Old Mr. Watchman," an old man with one
                        arm who used to come by the house where the small boy lived. He was a
                        watchman somewhere at a railroad crossing, a solid, weary, brown faced white
                        haired man who in winter wore a heavy great coat in summer a loose, brown
                        jacket, the pockets of which, or one pocket, at least, always, and every
                        day, nearly, contained something which, if the little boy would only hurry
                        out each morning or evening and climb on the fence and reach for, he might
                        have.
                    "Mr. Watchman! Mr. Watchman!" I can hear him crying
                        yet.
                    And somehow I seem to see a kindly gleam in the old blue eyes, and a smile on
                        the brown face, and a big, rough hand going over a very little head.
                    "Yes, there we have it. That's the nice boy." And
                        then someone would call from the house or the gate, a father or mother,
                        perhaps, "And now what do we say?"
                    "Oh, thank you, Mr. Watchman. Thank you."
                    And then the old watchman would go trudging onward with his bucket on his
                        arm, and the boy would munch his candy or his peanuts or his apple and
                        forget how kind and strange old Mr. Watchman really was—and how pathetic.
                    Then one day, some time later, after a considerable  absence or silence on the part of Mr. Watchman, the small boy
                        was taken to see him where he was lying very still in a very humble little
                        cottage, in a black box, with nickels on his eyes—and the little boy wanted
                        to take the nickels, too.
                    Don't you suppose Mr. Watchman must have smiled, wherever he was, if
                        he could?
                    And then one last picture, though I might recall a hundred from fairyland—a
                        thousand. It is a hot day and a house with closed shutters and drawn blinds,
                        and in the center of a cool, still room a woman sitting in a loose neglige,
                        and at her feet the child playing with the loose, worn slippers on her feet.
                        The boy is very interested in his mother, he loves her, and for that reason,
                        to his small mind her feet and her worn slippers are very dear to him.
                    "See poor mama's shoes. Aren't you sorry for her?
                        Think how she has to wear such poor torn shoes and how hard she has to
                        work."
                    "Yes, poor shoes. Poor mummy."
                    "When you grow up are you going to get work and buy poor mother a
                        good pair—like a nice, strong, big man?"
                    "Yes, work. Yes, I get mummy shoes."
                    Suddenly, something in the mother's voice is too moving. Some mystic
                        thread binding the two operates to convey and enlarge a mood. The child
                        bursts into tears over the old pattens. He is gathered up close, wet eyed,
                        and the mother cries too.
                    At the same time, this city of my birth was identified with so much struggle
                        on the part of my parents, so many dramas and tragedies in connection with
                        relatives and friends, that by now it seemed quite wonderful as the scene of
                        almost an epic. I might try to indicate the exact character of it as it
                        related to me; but instead, here at any rate, I will only say that from the
                        time the mill burned until after various futile attempts to right ourselves,
                        at Sullivan and Evansville, we finally left this part 
                        
                            THE STANDARD BRIDGE OF FIFTY YEARS AGO Reelsville,
                                Indiana
                        
                         of the country for good, it was one unbroken
                        stretch of privation and misery.
                    In that brilliant and yet defective story entitled "The Turn of the
                        Balance," by Brand Whitlock; there is narrated the career of an
                        unfortunate German family which might almost have been ours, only in order
                        to deal with so many children as there were in our family, the causes would
                        necessarily have been further enlarged, or the data greatly condensed. In
                        addition, there was no such complete collapse involved. The more I think of
                        my father, and the more I consider the religious and fearful type of mind in
                        general, the more certain I am that mere breeding of lives (raising a family
                        without the skill to engineer it through the difficulties of infancy and
                        youth) is one of the most pathetic, albeit humanly essential, blunders which
                        the world contains. Yet, and perhaps wisely so, it is repeated over and
                        over, age in and age out, ad infinitum. Governments love
                        large families. These provide population, recruit large armies and navies,
                        add the necessary percentage to the growth of cities and countries, fill the
                        graping maws of the factories. The churches love large families, for they
                        bring recruits to them and give proof of that solid morality which requires
                        that sex shall result in more children and that these shall be adequately
                        raised in the fear of God, if not in the comforts of life. Manufacturers and
                        strong men generally like large families. Where else would they get the
                        tools wherewith they work—the cheap labor—and the amazing contrasts between
                        poverty and wealth, the contemplation of which gives them such a
                        satisfaction in their own worth and force? Nature loves large families,
                        apparently, because she makes so many of them. Vice must love large families
                        because from them, and out of their needs and miseries, it is principally
                        recruited. Death must love them too, for it gathers its principal toll
                        there. But if an ordinary working man, or one without a serene and forceful
                        capacity for toil and provision, could see the ramifications and miseries of
                        birth in poverty, he would not reproduce himself so freely.
                    
                    My father was of that happy religionistic frame of mind which sees in a large
                        family—a very large family indeed, for there were thirteen of us—the be all
                        and the end all of human existence. For him work, the rearing of children,
                        the obligations of his religion and the liberal fulfilling of all his social
                        obligations, imaginary or otherwise, were all that life contained. He took
                        life to be not what it is, but what it is said to be, or written to be, by
                        others. The Catholic volumes containing that inane balderdash, "The
                        Lives of the Saints," were truer than any true history—if there is
                        such a thing—to him. He believed them absolutely. The pope was infallible. If
                        you didn't go to confession and communion at least once a year, you
                        were eternally damned. I recall his once telling me that, if a small bird
                        were to come only once every million or trillion years and rub its bill on a
                        rock as big as the earth, the rock would be worn out before a man would see
                        the end of hell—eternal, fiery torture—once he was in it. And then he would
                        not see the end of it, but merely the beginning, as it were. I recall
                        invoking his rather heated contempt, on this occasion, by asking (or
                        suggesting, I forget which) whether God might not change His mind about hell
                        and let somebody out after a time. It seemed to him that I was evidently
                        blasphemously bumptious, and that I was trifling with sacred things!
                    Unfortunately for him, though really not for us, I think, in the long run,
                        his children were differently minded. Owing to an arrogant and domineering
                        disposition, he insisted on the first ten, or first five, let us say being
                        educated in the then Catholic parochial schools, where they learned nothing
                        at all. Just before his failure, or the fire which ruined him, he gave the
                        ground on which the church and school of St. Joseph in Terre Haute now
                        stand, to the rector of that parish. Priests and bishops had the run of our
                        home in the days when we were prosperous. After that they did not come so
                        much, except to demand to know this, that, or the other, or to complain of
                        our conduct. After my father's failure, and  because he did not feel himself courageous enough to venture
                        on a new enterprise with the aid of the wealthy Mr. Rose, the then
                        sufficiently grown children were supposed to go to work, the girls as
                        housemaids, if necessary (for their education having been nothing, they had
                        no skill for anything else), the boys as "hands" in the
                        mill, the one thing my father knew most about, if they would (which they
                        wouldn't), in order to learn a trade of some kind.
                    Instead there was a revolt. They broke out into the world to suit themselves.
                        To save expenses, my mother had taken the three youngest, Ed, Clair (or
                        Tillie, as we always called her) and myself, first to a friend at Vincennes,
                        Indiana, for a few weeks' stay, then to Sullivan, where we remained
                        two years trying to maintain ourselves as best we could; thence to
                        Evansville, where, my brother Paul having established himself rather
                        comfortably, we remained two more; thence to Warsaw (via Chicago), where we
                        remained three years and where I received my only intelligent schooling;
                        thence out into the world, for the three youngest of us, at least, to
                        become, as chance might have it, such failures or successes as may be. The
                        others, too, after one type of career and another, did well enough. Paul,
                        for one, managed to get a national reputation as a song writer and to live
                        in comfort and even luxury. All of the girls, after varying years and
                        degrees of success or failure, married and settled down to the average
                        troubles of the married. One of these, the third from the eldest, was killed
                        by a train in Chicago in her thirtysecond year, in 1897. One brother—the
                        youngest (two years younger than myself)—became an actor. The brother next
                        older than myself became an electrician. The fourth eldest, and one of the
                        most interesting of all, as it seemed to me, a railroad man by profession,
                        finally died of drunkenness (alcoholism is a nicer word) in a South Clark
                        Street dive in Chicago, about 1905. So it goes. But all of them, in their
                        way, were fairly intelligent people, no worse and no better than the
                        average.
                    
                    I can see the average smug, conventional soul, if one such should ever chance
                        to get so deep into this book, chilling and sniffing over this frank
                        confession. My answer is that, if he knows as much about life as I do or has
                        the courage to say what he really knows or believes, he would neither be
                        chilling or sniffing. If any individual in this dusty world has anything to
                        be ashamed of, it is certainly not the accidents, ignorances and stark
                        vicissitudes with which we are all more or less confronted. These last may
                        be pathetic, but they have the merit nearly always of great and even
                        beautiful drama; whereas, the treacheries, shams and poltrooneries which
                        make for the creation and sustenance of the sniffy and the smug are really
                        the things to be ashamed of. I can only think of Christ's scathing
                        denunciation of scribes, hypocrites and pharisees and his reference to the
                        mote and the beam.
                    In Terre Haute, not elsewhere, we moved so often for want of means to pay our
                        rent, or to obtain cheaper places, that it is almost painful to think of it
                        in retrospect, though at the time I was too young to know anything much
                        about it. There was so much sickness in the family, and at this time a
                        certain amount of ill feeling between my mother and father. Several of the
                        girls ran away and (in seeming, only in so far as the beliefs of my father
                        were concerned) went to the bad. They did not go to the bad actually as time
                        subsequently proved, though I might disagree with many as to what is bad and
                        what good. One of the boys, Paul, got into jail, quite innocently it seems,
                        and was turned out by my father, only to be received back again and
                        subsequently to become his almost sole source of support in his later years.
                        There was gloom, no work, often no bread, or scarcely any, in the house.
                        Strange shifts were resorted to. My mother, and my father, for that matter,
                        worked and slaved. Both, but she in particular, I am sure, because of her
                        ambitious, romantic temperament, suffered the tortures of the damned.
                    
                    Alas, she never lived to see our better days! My father did.
                    But Terre Haute! Terre Haute!
                    Here I was entering it now for the first time since I had left it, between
                        seven and eight years of age, exactly thirtyseven years before.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLVIII
                    THE SPIRIT OF TERRE HAUTE
                    ASIDE from these perfervid memories in connection with it,
                        Terre Haute was not so different from Fort Wayne, or even Sandusky, minus
                        the lake. It had the usual main street (Wabash Avenue) lighted with many
                        lamps, the city hall, postoffice, principal hotel, and theatres; but I will
                        say this for it, it seemed more vital than most of these other places—more
                        like Wilkes-Barré or Binghamton. I asked Franklin about this, and he said
                        that he felt it had exceptional vitality—something different.
                    "I can't tell you what it is," he said.
                        "I have heard boys up in Carmel and Indianapolis who have been down
                        here say it was a 'hot town.' I can understand now
                        something of what they mean. It has a young, hopeful, seeking atmosphere. I
                        like it."
                    That was just how it seemed to me, after he had expressed it—"a
                        seeking atmosphere." Although it claimed a population of only
                        sixtyseven thousand or thereabouts, it had the tang and go of a much larger
                        place. That something which I have always noticed about American cities and
                        missed abroad, more or less, unless it was in Rome, Paris and Berlin, was
                        here,—a crude, sweet illusion about the importance of all things material.
                        What lesser god, under the high arch of life itself, weaves this spell? What
                        is it man is seeking, that he is so hungry, so lustful? These little girls
                        and boys, these half-developed men and women with their white faces and
                        their seeking hands—oh, the pathos of it all!
                    Before going to an hotel for dinner, we drove across the Wabash River on a
                        long, partially covered bridge, to what thought was the Illinois side, but
                        which was  only a trans-Wabash extension of
                        Vigo County. Coming back, the night view of the city was so fine—tall
                        chimneys and factories darkling along the upper and lower shores with a glow
                        of gold in the center—that Franklin insisted he must make a memory note,
                        something to help him do a better thing later, so we paused on the bridge
                        while he sketched the lovely scene by arc light. Then we came back to the
                        Terre Haute House (or the Terrible Hot House, as my brother Paul used to
                        call it), where, for sentimental reasons, I preferred to stop, though there
                        was a newer and better hotel, the Deming, farther up the street. For here,
                        once upon a time, my brother Rome, at that time a seeking boy like any of
                        those we now saw pouring up and down this well lighted street—(up and down,
                        up and down, day after day, like those poor moths we see about the lamp)—was
                        in the habit of coming, and, as my father described it, in his best suit of
                        clothes and his best shoes, a toothpick in his mouth, standing in or near
                        the doorway of the hotel, to give the impression that he had just dined
                        there.
                    "Loafers! Idle, good-for-nothings!" I can hear my father
                        exclaiming even now.
                    Yet he was not a loafer by any means—just a hungry, thirsty, curious boy, all
                        too eager for the little life his limited experience or skill would buy. He
                        was the one who finally took to drink and disappeared into the maelstrom of
                        death—or is it life?
                    And here, once in her worst days, my mother came to look for work, and got
                        it. In later years, Paul came here to be tendered a banquet by friends in
                        the city because of his song about this river—"a tribute to the
                        state"—as one admirer expressed it.
                    Not that I cared at all, really. I didn't. It wouldn't have
                        made any vast difference if we had gone to the other hotel—only it would
                        have, too! We arranged our belongings in our adjoining rooms and then went
                        out for a stroll, examining the central court and the low halls and the
                        lobby as we passed. I thought of my mother—and Rome, outside on the corner—and
                        Paul at his sentimental  banquet, and
                        then—well, then I felt "very sad like," as we would say in
                        Indiana.
                    Up the street from our hotel was the Deming, the principal hotel of this
                        city—"our largest," as the average American would say—just
                        like every other hotel in America which at this day and date aspires to be
                        "our largest" and to provide the native with that
                        something which he thinks is at once recherché (curse that
                        word!) and "grand," or "gorgeous." Thus,
                        there must be (1) a group of flamboyantly uniformed hall boys and porters,
                        all braids and buttons, whose chief, if not sole duty, is to exact
                        gratuities from the unwilling and yet ecstatic visitor; (2) an hotel clerk,
                        or three or five, who will make him feel that he is a mere upstart or
                        intruder, and that it is only by the generosity of a watchful and yet kindly
                        management (which does not really approve of him) that he is permitted to
                        enter at all; (3) maids, manicuresses, and newsstand salesladies, who are
                        present solely to make him understand what he has missed by marrying, and
                        how little his wife knows about dress, or taste, or life; (4) a lobby,
                        lounging room, shoeshining parlor and barber shop, done entirely in
                        imitation onyx; (5) a diningroom in imitation of one of the principal
                        chambers of the Palace of Vairsigh; (6) a grill or men's
                        restaurant, made to look exactly like a western architect's dream
                        of a Burgundian baronial hall; (7) a head waiter who can be friends only
                        with millionaires or their equivalent, the local richest men; (9) a taxi
                        service which can charge as much if not more than any other city's.
                        This last is absolutely indispensable, as showing the importance of the
                        city. But nevertheless we went here, after prowling about the city for some
                        time, to enjoy a later supper—or rather to see if there were any people here
                        who were worth observing at this favorite American midnight pastime. There
                        were—in their way.
                    Those that we saw here—in the grill—suggested at once the aspirations and the
                        limitations of a city of this size and its commercial and social
                        predilections. For here, between eleven and one, came many that might be 
                        
                            FRANKLIN'S IMPRESSION OF MY BIRTHPLACE
                        
                         called "our largest" or
                        "our most successful" men, of a solid, resonant,
                        generative materiality. The flare of the cloth of their suits! The blaze of
                        their skins and eyes! The hardy, animal implication of their eyes!
                    And the women—elder and younger! wives and daughters of those men who have
                        only recently begun to make money in easy sums and so to enjoy life. They
                        reminded me of those I had seen in the Kittatinny at Delaware Water Gap.
                        What breweries, what wagon works, what automobile factories may not have
                        been grinding day and night for their benefit! Here they were, most
                        circumspect, most quiescent, a gaudy and yet reserved company; but as I
                        looked at some of them I could not help thinking of some of the places I had
                        seen abroad, more especially the Abbaye Thélème in Paris and the Carlton at
                        Monte Carlo, where, freed from the prying eyes of Terre Haute or Columbus or
                        Peoria in summer or winter, the eager American abroad is free to dance and
                        carouse and make up, in part, for some of the shortcomings of his or her
                        situation here. Yes, you may see them there, the sons and daughters of these
                        factory builders and paint manufacturers, a feverish hunger in their faces,
                        making up for what Indiana or Illinois or Iowa would never permit them to
                        do. Blood will tell, and the brooding earth forces weaving these things must
                        have tremendous moods and yearnings which require expression thus.
                    But what interested me more, and this was sad too, were the tribes and shoals
                        of the incomplete, the botched, the semi-articulate, all hungry and
                        helpless, who never get to come to a place like this at all—who yearn for a
                        taste of this show and flare and never attain to the least taste of it.
                        Somehow the streets of this city suggested them to me. I know the moralists
                        will not agree with me as to this, but what of it? Haven't you seen
                        them of a morning—very early morning and late evening, in their shabby
                        skirts, their shapeless waists, their messes of hats, their worn shoes,
                        trudging to and from one wretched task and another, through the great
                        streets and the splendid  places? And are you
                        content always to dismiss them as just dull, or weak, or incapable of
                        understanding those finer things which you think you understand so well? Are
                        there not some possibly who are different? Oh, you brash thinkers who
                        dismiss them all so lightly—Not so fast, pray! Do not lean too heavily upon
                        the significance of your present state. Tonight, tomorrow, may begin the
                        fierce blasts that will sweep away the last vestige of what was strength, or
                        pride, or beauty, or power, or understanding. Even now the winds of disaster
                        may be whining under your door. A good body is something, a brain is more.
                        Taste, beauty, these are great gifts, not achievements. And that which gave
                        so generously can as certainly take away again. When you see them trudging
                        so hopelessly, so painfully, their eyes riveted by the flashing wonders of
                        life, let it be not all contempt or all pride with which you view them. Hold
                        to your strength if you will, or your subtlety; but this night, in your
                        heart, on your knees, make obeisance. These are tremendous forces among
                        which we walk. With their powers and their results we may have neither part
                        nor lot. What, slave, do you strut and stare and make light of your fellow?
                        This night may you be with them, not in paradise, but in eternal
                        nothingness—voiceless, dreamless, not even so much as a memory of anything
                        elsewhere. Nothing!
                    Even so! Even so!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XLIX
                    TERRE HAUTE AFTER THIRTYSEVEN YEARS
                    FOR good, bad, or indifferent, whether it had been painful
                        or pleasant, the youth time that I had spent in Terre Haute had gone and
                        would never come back again. My mother, as I remembered her then—and when is
                        a mother more of a mother than in one's babyhood?—was by now merely
                        a collection of incidents and pains and sweetnesses lingering in a few
                        minds! And my father, earnest, serious-minded German, striving to do the
                        best he knew, was gone also—all of thirteen years. Those brothers and sisters
                        whose ambitions were then so keen, whose blood moods were so high, were now
                        tamed and sober, scattered over all the eastern portion of America. And here
                        was I walking about, not knowing a single soul here really, intent upon
                        finding one man perhaps who had known my father and had been kind to him;
                        for the rest, looking up the houses in which we had lived, the first school
                        which I had ever attended, the first church, and thinking over all the ills
                        we had endured rather than the pleasures we had enjoyed (for of the latter I
                        could scarcely recall any), was all with which I had to employ myself.
                    In the first place, the night before coming in, because it was nearly dark
                        and because neither Franklin nor I cared to spend any more time in this
                        southern extension than we could help, I wanted to find and look at as many
                        of the old places as was possible in the summer twilight, for more than look
                        at them once I could scarcely, or at least, would not care to do. It was not
                        a difficult matter. At the time we lived there, the city was much smaller,
                        scarcely more than one-third its present size, and the places which then
                        seemed remote from the business heart  were
                        now a five-minute walk, if so much. I could see, in coming in, that to get
                        to Ninth and Chestnut, where I was born, I would have to go almost into the
                        business section, or nearly so. Again, the house at Twelfth and Walnut,
                        where the first few years of my life were spent—say from one to five—was first
                        on our route in, and it was best to have Bert turn in there, for the street
                        labelings were all very plain and it was easy to find our way. It was very
                        evident that Terre Haute was another manufacturing city, and a prosperous
                        one, for smoke filled the air and there was a somewhat inspiriting display
                        of chimneys and manufacturing buildings in one direction and another. The
                        sound of engine bells and factory whistles at six o'clock seemed to
                        indicate a cheerful prosperity not always present in larger and seemingly
                        more successful cities. Franklin, as I have said, noted a temper or flare of
                        youth and hope about the town, for he spoke of it.
                    "I like this place. It is interesting," he said.
                        "I had no idea Terre Haute was so fine as this."
                    As for me, my mind was recurring to old scenes and old miseries, commingled
                        with a child's sensations. Once in this town, in company with Ed
                        and Al, I picked coal off the tracks because we had no coal at home.
                        Somewhere here Ed and I, going for a sack of cornmeal, lost the fifty cents
                        with which to buy it, and it was our last fifty cents. In a small house in
                        Thirteenth Street, as I have elsewhere indicated, the three youngest of us
                        were sick, while my father was out of work, and my mother was compelled, to
                        take in washing. In some other house here—Seventh and Chestnut, I
                        believe—there was a swing in a basement where I used to swing all alone by
                        the hour, enjoying my own moods even at that time. From a small brick house
                        in Fourteenth Street, the last I ever knew of Terre Haute, I carried my
                        father's dinner to him in a pail at a woolen mill, of which he was
                        foreman or manager or something. He was never exactly a day laborer for
                        anyone. I remember a "carder" and a
                        "fuller" and a "blower" and a
                        "spinning jenny" and his explaining their functions to me.
                        Somewhere in this town  was the remainder of
                        St. Joseph's School, or its site, at least, where at five years of
                        age I was taken to learn my A B C's, and where a nun in a great
                        flaring white bonnet and a black habit, with a rattling string of great
                        beads, pointed at a blackboard with a stick and asked us what certain
                        symbols stood for. I recall even now, very faintly, it is true, having
                        trouble remembering what the sounds of certain letters were.
                    I remember the church attached to this school, and a bell in a tower that
                        used to get turned over and wouldn't ring until some one of us boys
                        climbed up and turned it back—a great treat. I remember boating on a small,
                        muddy pool, on boards, and getting my feet very wet, and almost falling in,
                        and a serious sore throat afterwards. I remember a band—the first I ever
                        heard—(Kleinbind's Terre Haute Ringold Band as my father afterwards
                        explained was its official title)—marching up the street, the men wearing red
                        jackets with white shoulder straps and tall black Russian shakos. They
                        frightened me, and I cried. I remember once being on the Wabash River with
                        my brother Rome in a small boat—the yellow water seemed more of a wonder and
                        terror to me then than it does now—and of his rocking the boat and of my
                        screaming, and of his wanting to whip me—a brotherly bit of tenderness, quite
                        natural, don't you think? I remember, at Twelfth and Walnut, a
                        great summer rainstorm, when I was very young, and my mother undressing me
                        and telling me to run out naked in the great splattering drops making
                        bubbles everywhere—an adventure which seemed very splendid and quite to my
                        taste. I remember my brothers Paul and Rome as grownups—men really—when they
                        were only boys, and of my elder sisters—girls of thirteen, fifteen,
                        seventeen, seeming like great strong women.
                    Life was a strange, colorful, kaleidoscopic welter then. It has remained so
                        ever since.
                    Here I was now, and it was evening. As we turned into Walnut Street at
                        Twelfth I recognized one of the houses by pictures in the family and by
                        faint memories  and we stopped to give
                        Franklin time to sketch it. It was a smoky, somewhat treeless neighborhood,
                        with a number of children playing about, and long rows of one-story
                        workingmen's cottages receding in every direction. Once it had a
                        large yard with a garden at the back, apple, pear and cherry trees along the
                        fence, a small barn or cow shed, and rows of gooseberry and currant bushes
                        bordering several sides. Now all that was gone, of course. The house had
                        been moved over to the very corner. Small houses, all smoky, had been
                        crowded in on either hand so tightly that there were scarcely sidewalks
                        between them. I asked a little girl who came running over as the car stopped
                        and Franklin began sketching, "Who lives over there?"
                    "Kifer," she replied.
                    "What does he do?"
                    "He works. They keep boarders. What are you making?"
                    "A picture."
                    "Of that house?"
                    "Yes."
                    "What for?"
                    "Well, I used to live there and I've come back all the way
                        from New York to see it."
                    "Oh!" And with that she climbed up on the running board to
                        look on, but Franklin shooed her off.
                    "You mustn't shake the car," he said.
                    She got down, but only to confer with six or seven other children who had
                        gathered by now, and all of whom had to be enlightened. They ran back for a
                        moment or two to inform inquisitive parents, but soon returned, increased in
                        number. They stood in a group and surveyed the house as though they had
                        never seen it before. Obviously, it had taken on a little luster in their
                        eyes. They climbed up on the running boards and shook the car until Franklin
                        was compelled to order them down again, though it was plain that he was not
                        anxious so to do. Bats were circling in the air overhead—those fine,
                        ricocheting winged mice. There were mosquitoes about, 
                        
                            TERRE HAUTE FROM WEST OF THE WABASH
                        
                         annoying numbers of them—horrible clouds, in
                        fact, which caused me to wonder how people endured living in the
                        neighborhood. People walked by on their way home from work, or going out
                        somewhere, young men in the most dandified and conspicuous garbs, and on
                        porches and front steps were their fathers in shirt sleeves, and women in
                        calico dresses, reading the evening paper. I studied each detail of the
                        house, getting out and looking at it from one side and another, but I could
                        get no least touch of the earlier atmosphere, and I did not want to go in.
                        Interiorly it held no interest for me. I could not remember how it looked on
                        the inside anyhow.
                    After leaving this house, I decided to look up Ninth and Chestnut, where I
                        was born, but not knowing the exact corner (no one in our family having been
                        able to tell me) I gave it up, only to notice that at that moment I was
                        passing the corner. I looked. There were small houses on every hand. Which
                        one was ours, or had been? Or was it there at all any more? Useless
                        speculation. I did not even trouble to stop the car.
                    But from here I directed the car to Eighth and Chestnut, a corner at which,
                        in an old red brick house still standing, my mother, as someone had informed
                        me, had once essayed keeping borders. I was so young at the time I could
                        scarcely remember—say six or seven. All I could recall of it was that here
                        once was a little girl in blue velvet, with yellow hair, the daughter of
                        some woman of comparative (it is a guess) means, who was stopping with us,
                        and who, because of her blue velvet dress and her airs, seemed most amazing
                        to me, a creature out of the skies. I remember standing at the head of the
                        stairs and looking into her room—or her mother's, and seeing a
                        dresser loaded with silver, bits, and marveling at the excellence of such a
                        life. Just that, and nothing more, out of a whole period of months. Now I
                        could only recall that the house was of brick, that it had a lawn and trees,
                        a basement with a brick floor, and a sense of abandonment and departed
                        merit. Finding it at this late date was not likely, but we ran the car
                        around there and  stopped and looked. There
                        was a brick house there, old but improved. Was it the same? Who can tell, or
                        what matter, really? The difference was to me.
                    We think of life as a definite, enduring thing, some of us; but what a thin
                        shadow, or nothingness, it must be, really, when the past and your youth and
                        all connected with it goes glimmering thus like smoke. I always think of
                        that passage in Job (XIV: 1-2) "Man that is born of a woman is of
                        few days, and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower and is cut
                        down; he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not." When I think
                        of that, and how ideas and notions and fames and blames go glimmering, I
                        often ask myself what is it all about, anyhow, and what are we here for, and
                        why should anyone worry whether they are low or high, or moral or immoral.
                        What difference does it really make? And to whom? Who actually cares, in the
                        long run, whether you are good, bad or indifferent? There is much talk and
                        much strutting to and fro and much concealment of our past ills and shames,
                        and much parading of our present luxuries and well beings. But, my good
                        friends, the wise know better. You cannot talk to a man or woman of capacity
                        or insight or experience of any of these sharp distinctions. To them they do
                        not exist. We are all low or high according to our dynamic energy to get and
                        keep fame, money, notoriety, information, skill—no more. As for the virtuous,
                        and those supposedly lacking in virtue—the honest and those who are
                        dishonest—kind heaven, we haven't the first inklings of necessary
                        data wherewith to begin even to formulate a theory of difference! We do not
                        know, and I had almost said we cannot know, though I am not one to be
                        cocksure of anything—not even of the impossibility of perfection.
                    Allons! Then we moved the car to Seventh and Chestnut Streets, where had
                        stood another house near a lumber yard. In this house was the swing in the
                        basement where I used to swing, the sunlight pouring through a low cellar
                        window, such days as I chose to play there. Outside was a great yard or
                        garden with trees, and close at hand  a large
                        lumber yard—it seemed immense to me at the time—pleasingly filled with
                        odoriferous woods, and offering a great opportunity for climbing, playing
                        hide and seek running and jumping from pile to pile, and avoiding the
                        watchman who wanted to catch us and give us a good beating for coming into
                        it at all.
                    And beyond that was a train yard full of engines and cars and old broken down
                        cabooses and a repair shop. When I was most adventurous I used to wander
                        even beyond the lumber yard (there was a spur track going out into this
                        greater world), staring at all I saw, and risking no doubt my young life
                        more than once. At one time I fell off a car on which I had adventurously
                        climbed and bruised my hand quite seriously. At another time I climbed up
                        into a worn out and discarded engine, and examined all the machinery with
                        the utmost curiosity. It all seemed so amazing to me. Engineers, Jiremen,
                        brakemen, yard men—how astonishing they all seemed—the whole clangorous,
                        jangling compact called life.
                    But this house was now a mere myth or rumor—something that may never have
                        existed at all—so unreal are our realities. It had gone glimmering. There was
                        no house here anything like that which I had in mind. There was a railroad
                        yard, quite a large one, probably greatly enlarged since my day. There was a
                        lumber yard adjoining it, very prosperous looking, and enclosed by a high
                        board fence, well painted, and a long, old, low white house with green
                        shutters. We stopped the car here and I meditated on my mother and sisters
                        and on some laughing school teachers who took meals with us here at this
                        time. Then we moved on. I was glad to go. I was getting depressed.
                    The last place we tried for was that much mentioned in Thirteenth Street,
                        Thirteenth between Walnut and Chestnut, as some one of my relatives had
                        said, but I could not find it. When we reached the immediate vicinity we
                        found a hundred such houses—I had almost said a thousand—and it was a poor,
                        sorrowful street, the homes  of the most
                        deficient or oppressed or defeated. I wanted to hurry on, and did so, but
                        musingly and romantically, in passing, I picked out one which stood next to
                        an alley—an old, small, black, faded house, and said to myself, that must be
                        ours. But was it? Because of uncertainty my heart could not go out to it. It
                        went out only to that other house back in the clouds of memory, where my
                        mother and my sisters and brothers were all assembled.
                    And this street—yes, my heart went out to it—oh, very much. I felt as though I
                        would be willing to trade places with and take up the burden of the least
                        efficient and most depressed of all of those assembled here, in memory of—in
                        memory of—
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER L
                    A LUSH, EGYPTIAN LAND
                    THE next morning, after purchasing our customary picture
                        cards, we were about to achieve an early start when I suddenly remembered
                        that I had not tried to find the one man I really wanted to see—a man for
                        whom my father had worked in years gone by, the son of a mill owner who
                        after his father's death with a brother had inherited this mill and
                        employed my father to run it. Although he was very much younger than my
                        father at that time, there had always been a bond of sympathy and
                        understanding between them. But even in my father's lifetime the
                        woolen industry in this region had fallen on hard lines—the East and some
                        patents on machinery held by Massachusetts manufacturers crowding these
                        westerners to the wall—so that this boy and his brother, who had been such
                        good friends to my father, had been compelled to abandon their woolen
                        properties entirely and Adam Shattuck had gone into the electric lighting
                        business, and had helped, I understand, to organize the local electric light
                        plant here and for a while anyhow was its first vicepresident and treasurer.
                        After that I heard nothing more.
                    I had never seen him, but as is always the case with someone commercially
                        connected with a family—a successful and so helpful a personality—I had heard
                        a great deal about him. Indeed, in our worst days here, the Shattuck family
                        had represented to me the height of all that was important and durable, and
                        to such an extent that even now, and after all these years, I hesitated
                        whether to inflict myself on him, even for so laudable a purpose as
                        inquiring the exact site of the old mill or whether he recalled where my
                        father first lived, on moving  to Terre Haute
                        from Sullivan, and which was the house where I was born. Nevertheless, I
                        looked him up in the city directory and could find only one Adam B.
                        Shattuck, "hay, grain, and feed, 230 South Fourth Street,"
                        a region and a business which did not seem likely to contain so important a
                        person. Nevertheless, because I was anxious to see the old mill which my
                        father had managed under his ownership (I knew it stood somewhere down near
                        the river's edge), I ventured to go to this address, to find
                        perchance if he could tell me where the true Adam B. Shattuck was to be
                        found.
                    And on the way, because it was only a few blocks at most in any direction, I
                        decided to look up the old St. Joseph's Church and school which I
                        had attended as a child, my first school, to see if possibly I could
                        recognize anything in connection with that. A picture postcard which I had
                        found showed a quite imposing church on the site my father had given, but no
                        school.
                    Imagine my surprise on reaching it to be able to recognize in a rear building
                        to which a new front had, in years gone by, been added, the exact small,
                        square red brick building in which I had first been drilled in my A B
                        C's. Owing to a high brick wall and the presence of an encroaching
                        building it was barely visible any longer from the street, but stripped of
                        these later accretions I could see exactly how it looked—and remember it! As
                        I gazed, the yard, the pond, the old church, the surrounding neighborhood,
                        all came back to me. I saw it quite clearly. As at Warsaw, Indiana, I now
                        suffered a slight upheaval in my vitals. A kind of nostalgia set in. The
                        very earth seemed slipping out from under my feet. I looked through the
                        small paned windows into one of the old rooms and then, because it was
                        exactly the same, I wanted to get away. I went round by the church side and
                        seeing a funeral train in front walked through the door into this newer
                        building. Before the altar rail, surrounded by tall candles, lay a coffin.
                        And I said to myself: "Yes, it is symbolic. Death and change have
                        taken much, so far. They will soon take all."
                    
                    Then I climbed back into the car.
                    It was only a few blocks to the hay, grain and feed emporium of this bogus
                        Adam Shattuck, and when I saw it, a low, drab, one story brick building, in
                        a very dilapidated condition, I felt more convinced than ever that this man
                        could have nothing to do with my father's quondam employer. I went
                        through the dusty, hay strewn door and at a small, tall, dusty and worn
                        clerical desk saw an old man in a threadbare grey alpaca coat, making some
                        entries in a cheap, reddish paper backed cashbook. There was a scale behind
                        him. The shadowy, windowless walls in the rear and to the sides were lined
                        with bins, containing sacks of oats and bran, bales of hay and other feed.
                        Just as I entered a boy from the vicinity followed me, pushing a small
                        truck, and laid a yellow slip on the desk.
                    "He says to make it four half sacks of bran."
                    "Can you tell me where I will find a Mr. Adam B. Shattuck, who used
                        to own the Wabash Woolen Mills here?" I inquired.
                    "I'm the man—Adam B. Shattuck. Just excuse me a minute, will
                        you, while I wait on this boy."
                    I stared at him in rude astonishment, for he seemed so worn, so physically
                        concluded. His face was seamed and sunken, his eyes deep tired, his hands
                        wrinkled.
                    "You're Mr. Shattuck, are you? Well, I'm the son
                        of Paul Dreiser, who used to work for you. You don't remember me,
                        of course—I was too young—"
                    "This isn't by any chance Theodore, is it?" he
                        commented, his eyes brightening slightly with recognition.
                    "Yes, that's me," I said.
                    "Your brother Paul," he said, "when he was out
                        here a few years ago, was telling me about you. You write, I believe—"
                    "Yes."
                    "Well, of course, I've never known of you except
                        indirectly, but—how long are you going to be in town?"
                    "Only this morning," I replied. "I'm just
                        passing through. This isn't my car. I'm traveling in it
                        with a friend. I'm visiting all the old places just for the fun of
                             it. I was just coming to you to ask if
                        you could tell me where the old mill stood—whether it's still
                        standing."
                    "Right at the foot of the street here," he commented very
                        cheerfully, at the same time bustling about and getting out the half sacks
                        of bran and other things. "It's just as it was in your
                        father's day, only it is a wagon company now. All the woolen mills
                        in this section died out long ago. Your father foresaw that. He told me they
                        would. I went into the electric lighting business afterward, but they
                        crowded me out of it—consolidation and all that. Then I got into this
                        business. It isn't much but it's a living. One
                        seventyfive," he said to the boy, who put the money on the desk and
                        went out.
                    "Yes, indeed, I knew your father. He was a fine man. He worked for
                        us off and on for pretty near fifteen year, after his own mill went up. This
                        was no country for woolen manufacture, though. We couldn't compete
                        with the East. Why, I read here not long ago that two hundred mills in
                        Indiana, Ohio and Illinois had closed up in twenty years—two hundred! Well,
                        that's all over. So you're Theodore! You couldn't
                        stay and have lunch with me, could you?"
                    "Thank you, I couldn't possibly," I replied.
                        "I'm only a guest in this car and I can't detain
                        them too long. I did want to see you, though, and so I came."
                    "That's right; that's right," he said.
                        "It's good of you. Times have changed with me some, but
                        then, I've lived a long time. I've a son in New York.
                        He's with . . . (he mentioned a large and successful company). You
                        ought to call on him some time. He'd be glad to see you,
                        I'm sure."
                    He rambled on about one thing and another and followed me . . . to the
                        door.
                    "You couldn't tell me, by any chance, where the first house
                        my father ever occupied in Terre Haute stands?" I said idly.
                    "Yes, I can. It's right around here in Second Street, one
                        block south, next to a grocery store. You can't miss it.
                        It's a two story brick now, but they added a story a  long time ago. It was a one story house in
                        his time, but then it had a big yard and lots of trees. I remember it well.
                        I used to go there occasionally to see him. . . . Right down there at the
                        foot of the street," he called after me.
                    I climbed into the car and down we went to the old mill to stare at that, now
                        whirring with new sounds and looking fairly brisk and prosperous; then back
                        to the old brick house, looking so old and so commonplace that I could well
                        imagine it a fine refuge after a storm. But I had never even heard of this
                        before and was not expecting to find it. Then we raced forth Sullivan-ward
                        and I was heartily glad to be gone.
                    The territory into which we were now passing was that described in the first
                        chapter of this book—of all places that I ever lived in my youth the most
                        pleasing to me and full of the most colorful and poetic of memories. Infancy
                        and its complete non-understanding had just gone. For me, when we arrived
                        here, adolescence—the inquisitive boy of twelve to sixteen—had not yet
                        arrived. This was the region of the wonder period of youth, when trees,
                        clouds, the sky, the progression of the days, the sun, the rains, the grass
                        all filled me with delight, an overpowering sense of beauty, charm, mystery.
                        How eager I was to know, at times—and yet at other times not. How I loved to
                        sit and gaze just drinking it all in, the sensory feel and glory of it. And
                        then I had gone on to other ideas and other places and this had never come
                        back—not once in any least way—and now I was to see it all again, or the
                        region of it—
                    Sullivan, as we found on consulting our map, lay only twentyfive miles south,
                        or thereabouts. Our road lay through a perfectly flat region, so flat and
                        featureless that it should have been uninteresting and yet it was not. I
                        have observed this of regions as of people, that however much alike they may
                        appear to be in character there is, nevertheless, a vast difference in their
                        charm or lack of it. This section in which I had been partially reared had
                             charm—not the charm of personal
                        predisposition, as others will testify, but real charm. The soil was rich—a
                        sandy loam. The trees were shapely and healthy—peaceful trees, not beaten by
                        angry winds and rains. The fields were lush with grass or grain—warm bottom
                        lands these, composed of soil carried down by ancient riversnow, in the last
                        hundred years or so, given names. As we came out of Terre Haute I turned and
                        looked back at it, a prosperous, vigorous town. East of it, in a healthy,
                        fruitful region, in that hill country around Reelsville and Brazil, there
                        had been coal mines—soft coal mines, providing work and fuel. Here on our
                        route to Sullivan were other mines, at Farmersburg, seven miles out, a town
                        by the way which I recalled as being somehow an outpost of the priest who
                        read mass at Sullivan, at Shelburne and other places still farther south.
                        You could see the black, dirty breakers across flat green fields in which
                        stood round healthy trees.
                    As we went south, one of those warm sudden rains sprang up, or came down—one
                        of those quick, heavy rains which I recognized as characteristic of the
                        region of my infancy. We saw it coming in the distance, a thickening of
                        smoke clouds over some groves in the west. Then a green fog seemed to settle
                        between us and the trees, and I knew it was raining.
                    "Here it comes," I called. "Had we better get the
                        top up?"
                    Bert, who was now the master of motion and a radically different temperament
                        to Speed, paid no heed. He was very taciturn or meditative at times, but
                        equally gay at others, and much more self sufficient and reliant, if
                        anything. I had been most interested by the quiet, controlling way in which
                        he had gone about getting himself housed and fed at night and at other
                        times. Porters and garage managers gave no least care to Bert. He managed
                        them and suggested ways and means to us occasionally. Whenever anything
                        happened to the car he leisurely extracted himself with the aid of his
                        crutches and set about  adjusting it as though
                        there were not the least thing defective about him. It was interesting,
                        almost amusing.
                    But now, as I say, he paid no heed and soon a few heavy drops fell, great,
                        splattering globules that left inch size wet spots on our clothing, and then
                        we were in the storm. It gushed.
                    "Now, will you listen?" I observed as we jumped down.
                        Franklin and I bustled about the task of getting the hood up. Before we
                        could do it, thoughalmost before we could get our raincoats on—it was
                        pouring—a torrent. It seemed to come down in bucketfuls. Then, once we had
                        the hood up and the seats dried and our raincoats on and were suffocating of
                        heat, the storm was gone. The sun came out, the road looked golden, the
                        grass was heavenly. In the distance one could see it raining elsewhere, far
                        across the fields.
                    "Yes," I observed feelingly and tenderly, "
                        'this is me own, me native land;' only I wish it
                        wouldn't make its remembered characteristics quite so obvious. I
                        can be shown that it is just as it used to be, without being
                        killed."
                    The land smiled. I'm sure it did. Aren't there such things
                        as smiling lands?
                    And a little farther on, without any suggestion from me, for I am well
                        satisfied that he would never be so influenced, Franklin was commenting on
                        the luxurious character of the region. The houses were all small and simple,
                        very tasteless little cottages, but very good and new and seemingly
                        comfortable, sheltering no doubt the sons and daughters of people who had
                        been here when I was. Excellent automobiles were speeding along the roads,
                        handsome western makes of cars—not so many Fords. The cattle in the fields
                        looked healthy, fat. Timothy and corn were standing waist high. It was hot,
                        as it should be in a fat riverland like this. We had not gone far before we
                        had to get out to examine a hay baling machine—the first hay baler (for the
                        use of individual farmers) I had ever seen. There had been a haypress at
                        Sullivan, a most wonderful thing to me to contemplate in my day a horse
                        going round in a ring and so lifting and dropping  a great weight which compressed the hay in a box; but this was
                        different. It was standing out in an open field near three haystacks and was
                        driven by a gasoline motor, a force which made short work of the vast
                        quantities of hay piled on the feeder. Three men operated it. The horses
                        that drew it stood idle to one side.
                    "How much hay can you bale in a day?" I asked of one of the
                        farmers.
                    "Depends on the number working," he replied. "We
                        three men can do up a couple of stacks like that." He was referring
                        to two goodly mounds of sweet brown hay that stood to the left.
                    "Do you call it hard work?" I asked.
                    "No, not very," he answered. "Pitching hay from
                        the stacks down onto it and pulling the bales away."
                    "What will the farmer not get next?" I inquired of
                        Franklin. "It seems that nearly all the heavy labor of the old days
                        is gone."
                    "It's true," he said. "I never saw a
                        machine like this before. I've heard of them. All that they need
                        now is a good, cheap traction plow and farming will be a weak man's
                        job—like golf—and twice as healthy."
                    We climbed back.
                    Scudding along under green trees and through stretches of meadow and under a
                        hot, almost baking sun, we came at last to various signs reading:
                        "For Fine Dry Goods Visit Squibbs, South Side Square," or
                        "If You Want The Best Hardware In Sullivan Go To Beach &
                        Gens."
                    "Ha! then someone of the Beach family has gone into the hardware
                        business," I commented.
                    Presently a huge sign appeared hanging across the road. It read:
                    
                        "Sullivan Welcomes You."
                    
                    "Imagine 'dirty old Sullivan' venturing to welcome
                        anyone!" I commented, quoting my sister. "If she could
                        only see that!" I added.
                    "There's another name I recognize, anyhow," I
                        commented  to Franklin, as another sign came
                        into view. "Some member of that family owned the clover field back
                        of our house in my time. Good luck to him, if it's in good
                        condition."
                    In a few minutes we were rolling up a street which would have taken us to the
                        public square if we had followed it; instantly I was on the qui
                            vive to see what if anything I could remember. This was a section,
                        the northwest corner of Sullivan, which I recalled as having been a great
                        open common in my time, filled principally with dog fennel and dandelion and
                        thistles and containing only one house, a red one, occupied by an Irish
                        section boss, whose wife (my mother having befriended her years before when
                        first she and her husband came to Sullivan) had now, at the time my mother
                        was compelled to make this return pilgrimage, befriended us by letting us
                        stay—mother and us three youngsters—until she could find a house. It was a
                        period of three or four days, as I recall it. The father of this family,
                        Thomas Brogan, was a great, heavy handed, hulking, red faced Irishman who
                        knew only work and Catholicism. On Sunday in some weird, stiff combination
                        of Sunday clothes and squeaky shoes, he was accustomed to lead in single
                        file procession his more or less recalcitrant family through weeds and along
                        the broken board walks of this poorly equipped region to mass. I saw him
                        often, even in my day. His youngest son, Harry Brogan, often played with Ed
                        and me and once he instigated some other, older boys, to lick us—a tale too
                        long and too sad to be told here. His second youngest son, Jim—alias Red
                        Brogan and subsequently known to fame as "Red Oliphant," a
                        bank robber (finally electrocuted by the state of New York at Sing Sing for
                        murder—he and three or four others shot a night watchman, or so the police
                        said)—was often beaten by his father with a horsewhip because he would not
                        work in the local coal mine or perhaps do other drudging about his home.
                        This coal mine, by the way, had killed his elder brother Frank some three or
                        four years before by explosion, a tragedy which you might have thought would
                             have ended coal mining in that family.
                        Not at all. Far from it. These beatings had continued until the boy ran
                        away, uneducated of course, and became the character he subsequently was or
                        was alleged to have been. I do not know. If you want to know of a fairly
                        good boy who died a criminal in the chair owing to conditions over which he
                        had no least control or certainly very little, this was one. If I were Red
                        Brogan and were summoned before the eternal throne—would that there were one—I
                        would show Him the stripes on my back and my neglected brain and ask Him
                        why, if He were God, He had forsaken me.
                    I have heard my mother tell how she was present at the time this older
                        brother's body was brought up out of the mine (eight men were
                        killed at the time) and how tragic seemingly was the grief of both Mr. and
                        Mrs. Brogan. Later on, after we left Sullivan, the family became somewhat
                        more prosperous and it is likely that the youngest son was not compelled to
                        work as the others had.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LI
                    ANOTHER "OLD HOME"
                    BE that as it may, it was much of this and related matters
                        that I was ruminating as I came through this region. But I could find no
                        traces of what had formerly been. There was no red house anywhere—repainted
                        probably. The coal mine, which I had remembered as being visible from this
                        section, was not to be seen. Later I learned that it had been worked out and
                        abandoned. The coal had all been dug out. Many new small houses in orderly,
                        compact rows now made streets here. We had Bert follow this road a few
                        blocks and then turn discreetly to the east until we should cross the
                        railroad tracks, for I recalled that it was across these tracks or track
                        facing another weed-grown square, and what was then a mildly industrious
                        institution of the town, the hay press, that our house stood.
                    This square had always seemed a fascinating thing to me, for despite the fact
                        that it was on the extreme outskirts of the town and in a district where (a
                        little farther out) stood the village slaughterhouse, emitting uncomfortable
                        odors when the wind was blowing right, still it was near the town's
                        one railroad station and switching yards—there was a turntable near the hay
                        press—and we could see the trains go by and watch the principal industry of
                        the place, switching, the taking on or dropping off of cars. Every morning
                        at ten-thirty and every afternoon at two there was a freight train—the one in
                        the morning from the south, the other in the afternoon from the north—which
                        stopped and switched here. As an eight to ten year-old boy how often I have
                        sat on our porch, playing "engine" or
                        "freight" with empty cigar boxes for cars (an extra big
                        one for a caboose) and a spool for a smokestack,  and imitated the switching and "making up"
                        which I saw going on across the common. A delicious sense of wonder and
                        delight always lingered in my mind in connection with Sullivan, for although
                        we were apparently desperately poor there, were compensations which the
                        inscrutable treasure of youth trebled and quadrupled—nay multiplied an
                        hundred and a thousand fold.
                    This indeed, I said to myself, as I looked at it now trying eagerly to get it
                        all back and failing so dismally in the main, was that Egyptian land of
                        which I have spoken. Here were those blue skies, those warm rains. Back of
                        this house which I am now to see once more perhaps will be that perfect
                        field of clover—only remembered in the summer state, so naturally optimistic
                        is the human soul. In the sky will be soaring buzzards, surely. Over a field
                        of green will stand a tall, gnarled dead tree trunk, its gauntness concealed
                        by a cape of wild ivy. On its topmost level will sit a brown hawk or a grey
                        headed eagle calculating on methods of capture. Across the street, up the
                        road a little way, will be the brown home of "crazy old
                        Bowles," who used to come to our well for water singing and
                        sometimes executing a weird step, or gazing vacantly and insanely at the
                        sky. He was an ex-army man, shot in the head at Lookout Mountain and now a
                        little daffy. He had been pensioned and was spending his declining years
                        here. "Crazy old Bowles" was his local name.
                    A few steps farther out this same road, the last house but one (which was
                        ours) would be the house of Mrs. Hudson, a lonely and somewhat demented old
                        widow whose children had long since gone and left her to live here quite
                        alone. We children thought her a witch. Down in a hollow, beyond our house,
                        where lay the whitening skulls and bones of many an ox and cow, stood the
                        tumbledown slaughterhouse, to me a fearsome place. I always imagined dead
                        cows prowling about at night. Over the way from our house had been a great
                        elm, in which Ed and I used to climb to swing on its branches. In its shade,
                        in summer time, Tillie, Ed and I played 
                        house. I can hear the wind in the leaves yet. Beyond the slaughterhouse
                        eastward was a great cornfield. In autumn, when the frost was whitening the
                        trees, I have seen thousands of crows on their way southward resting on the
                        rail fences which surrounded this field, and on the slaughterhouse roof and
                        on a few lone trees here and there, holding a conference. Such a cawing and
                        chattering!
                    Beyond the clover field again, in a southeasterly direction, was the fine
                        farm of Mr. Beach, his white house, his red barn, his trees sheltering
                        peacocks that in summer "called for rain." In the fields
                        all about were blackberries, raspberries, dewberries, wild plums, wild
                        crabapple trees—a host of things which we could gather free. If either Ed or
                        I had had the least turn of ingenuity we might have trapped or shot enough
                        wild animals to have kept us in meat—possibly even in funds, so numerous were
                        various forms of small game. In summer we could have picked unlimited
                        quantities of berries and helped mother preserve them against dark days. We
                        did—some. But in the main all we did was to fish a little—as the thought of
                        pleasure moved us.
                    But oh, this pleasing realm! Once here I could not see it as it really was at
                        the moment, nor can I now write of it intelligently or dispassionately. It
                        is all too involved with things which have no habitat in land or sea or sky.
                        The light of early morning, the feet of youth, dreams, dreams, dreams— Yes,
                        here once, I, told myself now, we carried coal in winter, Ed and I, but what
                        matter? Was not youth then ours to comfort us? My father was gloomy,
                        depressed, in no position or mood to put right his disordered affairs. But
                        even so, oh Sullivan! Sullivan! of what wonders and dreams are not your
                        poorest and most commonplace aspects compounded!
                    As we crossed the tracks by the railroad station, only two long blocks from
                        "our house" in the old days, I began to recognize familiar
                        landmarks. At the first corner beyond the station where I always turned
                        north had been four young trees and here now were four quite large ones.
                    
                    I was convinced they were the same. Looking up the street north I recognized
                        the open common still intact, and as we neared the house the identical hay
                        press, if you please, newly covered, with tin and perhaps otherwise
                        repaired, but standing close to the tracks, where formerly the hay was
                        loaded onto cars. By the sounds issuing from it, it must have been busy
                        indeed. At the spot where we now were at the moment should have been
                        Bowles' house, a low, one story yellow affair but now only a patch
                        of weeds and a broken well top indicated that a house had once stood there.
                        Looking quickly for "our house" I distinguished it, one of
                        a row of seemingly new and much poorer ones, but this older house was still
                        the best of them all. Beyond, where Mrs. Hudson's house should have
                        been and the great elm, and the Poe-like slaughterhouse, was nothing but a
                        railroad track curving Y-fashion and joining another which ran where once
                        the slaughterhouse hollow had been. There was no hollow any more, no tree,
                        no nothing. Only a right-angled railroad track or switching Y.
                    My field of clover!
                    It was an unkempt weed patch, small, disreputable, disillusionizing—a thing
                        that had never been large at all or had shrunk to insignificant proportions.
                        My tree—the column of the brooding hawk—it was gone. There was no fine fecund
                        truck patch alongside our house, where once we had raised corn, potatoes,
                        peas, onions, beans—almost our total summer and winter fare. Three other
                        small shabby houses and their grounds occupied the field we had cultivated.
                        I realized now in looking at this what an earnest, industrious woman my
                        mother must have been.
                    A band of ragamuffin children were playing out in front, children with bare
                        legs, bare arms, in most cases half bare bodies, and so dirty! When they saw
                        our car they gathered in a group and surveyed us. One of the littlest of
                        them had a sore-eyed puppy elevated to his loving breast. It was a
                        "poor white trash" neighborhood.
                    "My brother's got tabuckalosis of the bones," one
                        little girl said to me, nodding at a skimpy, distrait looking 
                        
                            MY FATHERS MILL Sullivan, Indiana
                        
                         youth who stood to one side, rather pleased
                        than not that his ailment should attract so much attention.
                    "Oh, no," I said, "surely not. He doesn't
                        look as though he had anything but a good appetite, does he,
                        Franklin?"
                    "Certainly not," replied the latter cheerfully.
                    The youth gazed at me solemnly.
                    "Oh, yes, he has," continued his sister, "the
                        doctor said so."
                    "But don't you know that doctors don't know
                        everything?" put in Fraklin. "doctors just imagine things,
                        the same as other people. Why, look at him—he's nice and
                        healthy."
                    "No, he ain't either," replied this protector
                        argumentatively. "If he don't get better he'll
                        haff to go to the 'ospital. Our doctor says so. My mother
                        ain't got the money or he'd go now."
                    "Dear! Dear!" I exclaimed, looking at the youth
                        sympathetically. "But there, he looks so well. You feel all right,
                        don't you?" I asked of the contemplative victim, who was
                        staring at me with big eyes.
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "You're never sick in bed?"
                    "No, sir."
                    "Well, now here's a nickel. And don't you get
                        sick. You'll be well so long as you think so."
                    "Ooh, let's see it," commanded the advertising
                        sister, drawing near and trying to take the hand with the coin.
                    "No."
                    "Well, let's see how it looks,"
                    "No."
                    "Well, then, keep it, smarty! You'll have to give it to
                        maw, anyhow."
                    I began to wonder whether "tabuckalosis" of the bones was
                        not something developed for trade purposes or whether it was really
                        true.
                    The house was in exactly the same position and physically unchanged save that
                        in our day the paint was new and white; whereas, now, it was drab and dirty.
                        The  yard, or garden as the English would call
                        it, had all been cut away, or nearly so, leaving only a dusty strip of faded
                        grass to the right as one looked in. In "our" time there
                        was a neat white picket fence and gate in front. It was gone now. Inside,
                        once, were roses in profusion, planted by mother, and a few small fruit
                        trees—a peach, a cherry, an apple tree. Now there were none. The fence on
                        which I used to sit of a morning—the adored back fence—and watch the swallows
                        skimming over the clover and the yellow humble bees among the blooms was
                        gone also. Not a trace of all the beauty that once was mine. I stood here
                        and thought of the smooth green grass that I had rejoiced in, the morning
                        and evening skies, the cloud for mations, the bluebird that built a nest
                        under one corner of our roof, the swallows that built their hard bony nests
                        in our chimneys and lost them occasionally—they and their poor naked young
                        tumbling to ruin on our cool hearthstones. Had it been in fact or only in my
                        own oul?
                    I thought of my mother walking about in the cool of the morning and the
                        evening, rejoicing in nature. I saw her with us on the back porch or the
                        front—Tillie, Ed, myself, and some of our elders gathered about her—listening
                        to stories or basking in the unbelievable comfort of her presence.
                    Here, at dusk, I said, Ed and I used to throw cinders and small rocks at the
                        encircling bats, hoping, as Ed used to say, to "paralyze"
                        them. From our doorstep at night we could hear the whistle of incoming and
                        outgoing trains and see the lighted coaches as they passed. An old grist
                        mill a half mile "down the track," as we always referred
                        to the region due south, ground grain all night and we could hear the poetic
                        rumble of the stones. Here, occasionally, my brooding father would come from
                        Terre Haute, to sit with us and bring a little money—the money that he could
                        spare from past accumulated debts.
                    My brother Rome came here once—"to get drunk and disgrace
                        us," as my sister said. My elder sisters came, to avoid their
                        father and have the consoling counsel and love  of their mother. My brother Al came from my Uncle Martin's fruit
                        farm at North Manchester, if you please, to lord it over us with his rustic
                        strength, to defeat and terrorize all our accumulated enemies (Ed and I had
                        a genius for storing up enemies for him) and to elicit our contempt for his
                        country bumpkin manners. And here finally when my mother was distrait as to
                        means of weathering the persistent storm and we were actually cold and
                        hungry, my brother Paul, now a successful minstrel man and the author of
                        "The Paul Dresser Comic Songster" (containing all the
                        songs sung in the show) and now traveling in this region, came to her aid
                        and removed us all to Evansville—the spring following this worst of
                        winters.
                    In addition to all this my father's first mill was still here at
                        that timeand even now as I later discovered—only two blocks away, behind the
                        station—burned once but restored afterward—and also an old house which he had
                        built and owned but had been compelled to sell. In those days these were the
                        signs and emblems of our former greatness, which kept our drooping spirits
                        from sinking too low and made us decide not to be put upon forever and ever
                        by life.
                    As I stood looking at this I had once more that sinking sensation I
                        experienced in Warsaw and Terre Haute. Life moves so insensibly out from
                        under you. It slips away like a slow moving tide. You look and the box or
                        straw that once was at your doorstep is far down stream—or rather you are the
                        box, the straw. Your native castle is miles removed. I went in and knocked
                        at the door while Franklin, without, sketched and photographed to suit
                        himself. A slattern of a woman, small, young, stodgy, greasy, but not
                        exactly unattractive, came to the door and stared at me in no particularly
                        friendly way. Why are some animals so almost unconsciously savage?
                    "I beg your pardon," I said. "I lived here once,
                        years ago. Would you let me come in and look over the house?"
                    As I spoke a tall, gaunt yokel of not over twentysix ambled out from an inner
                        room. He was an attractive  specimen
                        physically but so crude and ignorant. He looked me over superficially. I
                        might have been a policeman or an enemy.
                    I repeated my question.
                    "Yes, I guess you kin look it over," he said distantly.
                    "It ain't quite made up yet. The boarders don't
                        keep their rooms just as spick as might be."
                    Boarders! In this unkempt house! It was a litter. The best pictures were
                        flyspecked lithographs or chromos. The floors when they were laid with
                        anything were covered with earthy looking rag carpets—creaky, yellow,
                        nondescript furniture. A litter and crush of useless things—tin and glass
                        lamps, papers, cheap pamphlets—a red tablecloth or two—and there were flies
                        and odors and unmade beds.
                    I went through, looking into each room, restoring it to my mind as it had
                        been. We had not had much—the rooms in our day were sparely and poorly
                        furnished, tastelessly so no doubt—but there is an art in spareness and
                        bareness and cleanliness, and still more in a pervasive personality like my
                        mother's. What we had, thanks to her, was clean and neat, with
                        flowers permitted to approach as near as summer and soil and pots made
                        possible. I realized now that it was her temperament which like a
                        benediction or a perfume had pervaded, surrounded, suffused this whole
                        region and this home for me. It was my mother and myself and my brothers and
                        sisters in part whom I was remembering—not just the house and the
                        grounds.
                    Aside from this house there was not much that I wanted to see—not much with
                        which I was intimately identified. A Catholic church to which a priest came
                        once a month and in which the Catholic school was held—an institution which,
                        fortunately, I was not permitted to attend very long, for want of shoes to
                        wear; the old mill which my father built and which after a fire was
                        restored, and in the mill pond of which Ed and I were wont to fish, on
                        occasion; the courthouse square and postoffice, in the latter of which I
                        have often waited eagerly for the distribution  of mail—not that it meant anything to me personally, but because my mother
                        was so pathetically eager for word of some kind; the Busseron river or
                        creek, which I knew we would see as we left town. We left this group of
                        chattering children, one of whom, a girl, wanted to sell us the small dog in
                        order, as she said, to buy herself a new riding whip. I could not decide
                        whether she was indulging in a flight of fancy—so poverty stricken was her
                        home—or whether on some farm near by was a horse she was actually permitted
                        to ride. She was brisk and stodgy—a black eyed, garrulous little creature
                        with a fondness for great words, but no real charm.
                    With one backward glance on my part we were off to the mill, which stood just
                        as it was in my day, only instead of running full time as it did then there
                        was an assignee's sign on the door saying that all the stock and
                        fixtures of the Sullivan Woolen Mills Company would be sold under the hammer
                        at a given date to satisfy certain judgments—a proof I thought of Mr.
                        Shattuck's assertions. The small white Catholic Church, still at
                        hand, was no longer a Catholic Church but a hall, the Catholics having moved
                        to a more imposing edifice. The county courthouse was entirely new, a thing
                        in the usual fashion and scarcely so attractive as the old. The little old
                        postoffice in its brown shell was replaced by a brick and glass structure,
                        owned no doubt by the government. There was a Carnegie Library of sorts—what
                        town has been skipped? A new central public school, various new churches,
                        Baptist, Methodist, Presbyterian, showing where a part of the savings of the
                        American people are being put. We stopped for lunch and picture postcards—and
                        found only sleepy, lackadaisical merchants and clerks, a type of indolence
                        befitting a hot, inter-river region. For to the east of this town about
                        twenty miles was the White river (which we crossed at Indianapolis), and to
                        the west about ten miles the Wabash, and all between was low, alluvial soila
                        wonderful region for abundant crops—a region frequently overflowed in the
                        springtime by the down rushing floods of the north.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LII
                    HAIL, INDIANA!
                    GOING out of Sullivan I made an observation, based on the
                        sight of many men and women, sitting on doorsteps or by open windows or
                        riding by in buggies or automobiles, or standing in yards or fields—that a
                        lush, fecund land of this kind produces a lush, fecund population—and I think
                        this was well demonstrated here. There was a certain plumpness about many
                        people that I saw—men and women—a ruddy roundness of flesh and body, which
                        indicated as much. I saw mothers on doorsteps or lawns with kicking, crowing
                        children in their arms or youngsters playing about them, who illustrated the
                        point exactly. The farmers that I saw were all robust, chunky men. The
                        women—farm girls and town wives—had almost a Dutch stolidity. I gazed, hardly
                        willing to believe, and yet convinced. It was the richness of this
                        soil—black, sandy muck—of which these people partook. It made me think that
                        governments ought to take starving populations off unfertile soils and put
                        them on land like this.
                    Going south from here Franklin and I fell into a very curious and intricate
                        discussion. The subtlety of some people's private speculations at
                        times astonishes me. Not that our conversation was at all extraordinary from
                        any point of view, but it was so peculiar in spots. I am not wildly
                        intoxicated by the spirit of my native state, not utterly so at any rate;
                        yet I must admit that there is something curiously different about
                        it—delicate, poetic, generative—I hardly know what I want to say. On the way
                        there I had been saying to Franklin that I doubted whether I should find the
                        West still the same or whether it was as generative and significant as I had
                        half come to make  myself believe it was.
                        After leaving Warsaw I had remarked that either I or the town had changed
                        greatly, and since the town looked the same, it must be me. To this he
                        assented and now added:
                    "You should go sometime to a Speedway race at Indianapolis, as I
                        have often, year after year since it was first built. There, just when the
                        first real summer days begin to take on that wonderful light, and a kind of
                        luminous silence over things suggests growing corn and ripening wheat and
                        quails whistling in the meadows over by the woods, you will find an
                        assemblage of people from all over this country and from other countries—cars
                        by the thousands with foreign licenses; which make you feel that this is the
                        center of things. I've been there, and getting a bit tired of
                        watching the cars have gone over into the woods inside the grounds and lain
                        down on the grass on my back. There would be the same familiar things about
                        me, the sugar and hickory trees, the little cool breeze that comes up in the
                        middle of the day, through the foliage, the same fine sky that I used to
                        look up into when a boy; but, circling around me continuously for hours,
                        coming up from the south and along the great stretches, and from the north
                        bank of the track, were the weird roar and thunder of an international
                        conflict. Then I would get up and look away south along the grandstands and
                        see flying in the Indiana sunlight the flags of all the great nations, Italy
                        and England, France and Belgium, Holland and Germany. So I sometimes think
                        the spirit that has been instrumental in distinguishing this particular
                        section from other sections of the country is something still effective;
                        that it does not always lead away from itself; that it has established its
                        freedom from isolation and mere locality and accomplished here a quite vital
                        contact with universal thought."
                    "That's all very flattering to Indiana," I said,
                        "but do you really believe that?"
                    "Indeed I do," he replied. "This is a most
                        peculiar state. Almost invariably, on socalled clear days in July and August
                        out here, an indescribable haze over everything  leaves the horizons unaccounted for and the distance a sort of mystery.
                        This, it has always seemed to me, is bound to produce in certain types of
                        mind a kind of unrest. In such light, buzzards hanging high above you or
                        crows flying over the woods are no longer merely the things that they are
                        but become the symbols of a spiritual, if I may use the word, or æsthetic,
                        suggestiveness that is unescapable. The forests here also, or such as used
                        to be here, must have had their influence. Temples and cathedrals, all works
                        of art, are designed to impress men's minds, leading them into
                        varying conditions of consciousness. The forests of sugar and beech and
                        poplar and oak and hickory about here originally, it has been said, were the
                        most wonderful on the face of the earth. No one had ever experimented with
                        the action of such things as these on people's minds, to determine
                        specific results, but I fancy they have them. In fact I sometimes think
                        there is something about soil and light, a magnetism or creative power like
                        the electric generative field of a dynamo, which produces strange, new,
                        interesting things. How else can you explain the fact that 'Ben
                        Hur' was written out here at Crawfordville, under a beech tree, or
                        why the first automobile course, after Brooklands, England, was built here
                        at Indianapolis, or why La Salle, with a company of adventurers, should come
                        canoeing down the St. Joseph and the Maumee into this region? I believe
                        thoroughly in the presence of a great resource of relative truth,
                        constituted of the facts of all human things; that this resource is
                        available to anyone whoever or wherever he may be, who can, in his mind,
                        achieve a clear understanding of his own freedom from the necessities of
                        mere physical communication. This may seem to be getting a little thin but
                        it is not beside the actual point if you trouble to think of
                        it."
                    "That's rather flattering to dear old Indiana," I
                        repeated, "but still I'm not sure that I'm
                        absolutely convinced. You make out a fairly plausible case."
                    "Look at the tin plate trust," he continued, "one
                        of the first and most successful. It originated in Kokomo  and expanded until it controlled the Rock
                        Island Railway, Diamond Match, and other corporations. Look at the first
                        American automobile—it came from here—and James Whitcomb Riley and George Ade
                        and Tarkington, and other things like that."
                    "Yes, 'and other things like that,' "I
                        quoted. "You're right."
                    I did not manage to break in on his dream, however.
                    "Take this man Haynes, for instance, and his car. Here is a case
                        where the soil or the light or the general texture of the country generated
                        a sense of freedom, right here in Indiana in a single mind, and to a great
                        result; but instead of his going away or its taking that direction, Haynes
                        developed his own sense of freedom right here by building his motor car
                        here. He rose above his local limitations without leaving. Through his
                        accomplishment he has made possible a fine freedom for some of the rest of
                        us. After all, individual freedom is not simply the inclination and the
                        liberty to get up and go elsewhere; nor is it, as people seem to think,
                        something only to be embodied in forms of government. I consider it
                        something quite detached from any kind of government whatever, a thing which
                        exists in the human mind and, indeed, is mind."
                    Franklin was at his very best, I thought.
                    "This is getting very esoteric, Franklin," I commented,
                        "very, very esoteric."
                    "Just the same," he continued, "the automobile is
                        a part of this same sense of freedom, the desire for freedom made manifest;
                        not the freedom of the group but the freedom of the individual.
                        That's about what it amounts to in the ultimate. Here we have been
                        traveling across country, not limited in our ability to respond as we chose
                        to the 'call of the road' and of the outdoors in general;
                        and we have been bound by no rule save our own, not by the schedule of any
                        organization. That same freedom was in Haynes' mind in the first
                        instance, and right here, stationary in Indiana,—and it was generated by
                        Indiana,—the conditions here."
                    
                    "Yes," I agreed.
                    "Well, to me Indiana is noteworthy in having done and in still doing
                        just that sort of thing. It stands unique in having produced a great many
                        celebrated men and women in all departments of work, not only those who have
                        departed from the state but those who have remained and gained a publicity
                        for their achievements far outside its boundaries. It was, I'm
                        confident, primarily this soilgenerated call that came to you. It came to
                        me. It must have come the same to many others, or to all I should say who
                        have accomplished things, those who have grasped at or struggled for, if you
                        wish to speak of it that way, universal standards and scope. You felt it and
                        picked up and went away some years ago; now on your return you do not feel
                        the old generative impulse any more; everything seems miserably changed and
                        the beauty to a large extent faded. But it is not. I also do not find things
                        the same any more. Yet I am convinced the old call is still here; and when I
                        return I have a feeling that out here on the farms, driving the cows in the
                        morning and at evening, in the small towns, and hanging around the old
                        watergaps along the creeks, are boys just like we used to be, to whom the
                        most vital thing in life is this call and the longing—to be free. Not to be
                        free necessarily or at all, of these local experiences, but to achieve a
                        working contact with universal things."
                    "That sounds very well, at least," I commented.
                    "There's something in it, I tell you," he
                        insisted, "and what's more, though I'm not
                        inclined to make so very much of that, Indiana was originally French
                        territory and La Salle and his companions coming down here may have brought
                        a psychic sprig of the original French spirit, which has resulted in all
                        these things we have been discussing."
                    "You surely don't believe that?" I questioned.
                    "Well, I don't know. Certainly Indiana is
                        different—inquisitive, speculative, constructive—the characteristics which
                        have most distinguished the French. And, by the way," he added,
                        returning to Haynes and his car for a 
                        
                            VINCENNES The Knox County Fair
                        
                         moment, "a short time before Haynes
                        developed his automobile, though not long enough, I'm sure, or to
                        such an extent that he could have known much of its progress, the same
                        problem was being studied and worked out in France by
                        Levasser."
                    He looked at me as though he thought this was significant, then continued:
                        "But I'm really not inclined to think that all this stuff
                        is true or that there is a deep laid spiritual connection between France and
                        Indiana. I don't. It's all amusing speculation, but I do
                        believe there is something in the soil and light idea."
                    He leaned back and we ceased talking.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIII
                    FISHING IN THE BUSSERON AND A COUNTY FAIR
                    IT was just outside of Sullivan, a mile or two or three,
                        that we encountered the Busseron, the first stream in which, as a boy, I
                        ever fished. The strangeness of that experience comes back to me even now—the
                        wonder, the beauty of a shallow stream, pooled in places, its banks
                        sentineled by tall trees, its immediate shoreline ornamented by arrogant
                        weeds and bushes blooming violently.
                    The stillness of the woods, the novelty of a long bamboo pole and a white
                        line and a red and green cork; a hook, worms, the nibble of the unseen
                        creature below the yellow surface of the stream. Even now I hear a distant
                        gun shot—hunters prowling after birds. I see a dragon fly, steely blue and
                        gauze of wing, fluttering and shimmering above my cork (why should they love
                        cork floats so much?). My brother Ed has a nibble! Great, kind heaven, his
                        cork is gone—once! twice!!
                    "Pull him out, Ed."
                    "For God's sake, pull him out!"
                    "Gee, look at that!"
                    Oh, a black and white silvery fish—or a dark, wet, slippery cat—as lovely and
                        lustrous as porcelain. Oh, it's on the grass now, flipping here and
                        there. My nerves are all a-tingle, my hair on end, with delight. I can
                        scarcely wait until I get a bite—hours perhaps—for my brother Ed was always a
                        luckier fisherman than I, or a better one.
                    And then late in the afternoon, after hours of this wonder world, we trudge
                        home, along the warm, dusty, yellow country road; the evening sun is red in
                        the West, our feet buried in the dust. Not a wagon, not a sound, save that
                        of wood doves, bluejays, the spiritual, soulful, lyric thrush. On a long,
                        limp twig with a  fork at the end is strung
                            our fish, so small and stiff now—so large, glistening,
                        brilliant, when we caught them. On every hand are field fragrances, the
                        distant low of cows and the grunts of pigs. I hear the voice of a
                        farmer—"Poo-gy! Poo-gy! Poogy! Poogy!"
                    "Gee, ma kin fry these—huh?"
                    "You bet."
                    Brown-legged, dusty, tired, we tramp back to the kitchen door. There she is,
                        plump, tolerant, smiling—a gentle, loving understanding of boys and their
                        hungry, restless ways written all over her face.
                    "Yes, they're fine. We'll have them for supper.
                        Wash and clean them, and then wash your hands and feet and come
                        in."
                    On the grass we sit, a pan between us, cleaning those penny catches. The day
                        has been so wonderful that we think the fish must be perfect. And they are,
                        to us. And then the after-supper grouping on the porch, the velvety dusk
                        descending, the bats, the mosquitoes, the smudge carried about the house to
                        drive out the mosquitoes, tales of Indians and battle chiefs long dead, the
                        stars, slumber.
                    I can feel my mother's hand as I lean against her knee and
                        sleep.
                    By just such long, hot yellow roads as Ed and I traversed as boys Franklin
                        and I came eventually to Vincennes, Indiana, but only after traversing a
                        region so flat and yet so rich that it was a delight to look upon. I had
                        never really seen it before—or its small, sweet simple towns—Paxton, Carlisle,
                        Oaktown, Busseron. The fields were so rich and warm and moist that they were
                        given over almost entirely to the growing of melons—water and cantaloupe,
                        great far flung stretches of fields. Large, deep-bodied, green-painted
                        wagons came creaking by, four, five, and six in a row, hauling melons to the
                        nearest siding where were cars. There were melon packing sheds to be seen
                        here and there, where muskmelons were being labeled and crated. It was
                        lovely. At one point we stopped a man and bought two watermelons and sat
                        down by the roadside to eat. Other machines passed and  the occupants looked at us as though we had stolen them.
                    "Here we are," I said to Franklin, "three honest
                        men, eating our hard-earned melons, and these people believe we stole
                        them."
                    "Yes, but think of our other crimes," he replied,
                        "and anyhow, who wouldn't—three men eating melons by a
                        roadside, the adjoining fields of which are dotted with
                        melons."
                    The man who had passed in the buggy had leered at us in such a convicting
                        way.
                    And yet I have Franklin and Bert to witness we paid ten cents each for two of
                        the best melons we ever tasted.
                    At Paxton and at Carlisle again we came upon coal mines—that vein of soft coal
                        which seems to underlie this whole region. Miners in droves were to be seen
                        walking along the roads as at Wilkes-Barré, their faces smudgy, their little
                        lamps standing up from their caps, their big tin buckets hanging on or
                        tucked under their arms. We stopped at one town and examined the exterior of
                        a mine because it was so near the road. Every few seconds out of its
                        subterranean depths (three hundred and fifty feet, the man told me) up a
                        deep, dripping shaft would come a small platform carrying several small cars
                        of coal, which would be shunted onto a runway and
                        "empties" pushed in to take their places. I asked the man
                        who ran the engine in the nearby shed how many tons of coal they would take
                        out in a day. "Oh, about four hundred," he said.
                    "Any men ever killed here?"
                    "Yes, occasionally."
                    "Recently?"
                    "Well, there was an explosion two years ago."
                    "Many men killed?"
                    "Eight."
                    "Were there any before that?"
                    "Two, about three years before."
                    He wiped his sweaty forehead with a grimy hand.
                    "Wouldn't like to go down, would you?" he asked
                        genially, after a time—quite unconscious of our earlier conversation, I
                        think.
                    
                    "No, thanks," I replied.
                    I had a sicky feeling, conveyed by that dark, dripping shaft. Three hundred
                        and fifty feet—not me!
                    But I said to myself as I looked at all the healthy, smiling miners we met
                        farther on, "If I were a prince or a president and these were my
                        subjects, how proud I would be of a land that contained such—how earnest for
                        their well being"—I had so little courage to do what they were
                        doing.
                    But in spite of these mines, which were deep and far-reaching, as we learned,
                        in many districts stretching for miles in different directions, the soil
                        manifested that same fertility and the land grew flatter and flatter. All
                        the towns in here were apparently dependent upon them. There were no rises
                        of ground. Interesting groves of trees crowded to the roadside at times,
                        providing a cooling shade, and excessively marshy lands appeared, packed
                        with hazel bushes and goldenrod, but no iron weed as in the East. The roads
                        were sped over by handsome automobiles—much finer in many instances than
                        oursand I took it that they were representative of the real farmer wealth
                        here, a wealth we as a family had never been permitted to taste.
                    In about two hours we entered Vincennes—a front tire having blown up just
                        outside Sullivan on the banks of the Busseron. At its edge we came upon a
                        fairgrounds so gaily bedecked with tents and flags that we parked our car
                        and went in—to see the sights. The Knox County Fair. It seemed to me that
                        this farmers' show supported my belief in their prosperity, for to
                        me at least it turned out to be the most interesting county fair I had ever
                        seen. The animals displayed—prize sows and boars, horses and sheep of
                        different breeds, chickens and domestic animals of various kinds,—were
                        intensely interesting to look at and so attractively displayed. I never saw
                        so many fat sheep, dams and rams, nor more astonishing hogs, great, sleek
                        rolling animals that blinked at us with their little eyes and sniffed and
                        grunted. Great white pleasant tents were devoted to farm machinery and
                        automobiles and  by these alone one could tell
                        that here was a prosperous and buying population, else the manufacturers had
                        never troubled to send so much and such expensive machinery. All that the
                        farmer could use—machines for ploughing, planting, cutting, reaping, binding,
                        fertilizing, baling (I think I counted a score of separate machines of this
                        kind), to others intended for use around the home—kerosene cook stoves, well
                        pumps, cream separators, churns, washing machines—a whole host of these—to the
                        latest inventions in motor ploughs and motor driven farm wagons—were here.
                        The display of automobiles was lavish—really all the important makes were
                        represented and in addition there was a racetrack with races going on and a
                        large number of tented amusements—the wild men from Boola-Boola; Calgero, the
                        mindreader, several moving picture shows, a gypsy dancer, and the like.
                    Franklin and I browsed around at our leisure. On so fine and so hot an
                        afternoon it was amusing to idle under these great trees and study the
                        country throng. A hungry boy was treated to "weenies" (the
                        Indiana version of "hot dog") and coffee by him—a treat he
                        was very backward about accepting. Hundreds, judging by the parked cars
                        outside, possessed automobiles. Various church congregations of the region
                        had established restaurant booths to aid one or other of their religious
                        causes. At a table in the booth of the Holy Trinity Roman Catholic Church of
                        Vincennes I ate a dish of chicken dumplings, a piece of cherry pie, and
                        drank several glasses of milk, thereby demonstrating, I think, that no
                        inalienable enmity existed between myself and the Catholic Church, at least
                        not on the subject of food. At this booth, besides the several be-calicoed
                        and bestarched old ladies who were in attendance, I noticed a tall
                        Bernhardtesque girl of very graceful and sinuous lines who was helping to
                        wait on people. She had red hair, long delicate tapering fingers, a wasplike
                        but apparently uncorseted waist, and almond shaped greenish grey eyes. No
                        edict of the Church prevented her from wearing hip tight skirts or one that
                        came lower than  perhaps four or five inches
                        below the knee. She had on rings and pins and, quite unconsciously I think,
                        took graceful and dreamful attitudes. There was a kind of high scorn—if not
                        rebellion—in her mood, for one aiding a religious cause—
                    I wondered how long Vincennes and the sacred precincts of the Church would
                        retain her.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIV
                    THE FERRY AT DECKER
                    IS it an illusion of romance, merely, or is it true that,
                        in spite of the fact that the French, governmentally speaking, have been out
                        of old Vincennes—the very region of it—for over a hundred and fifty years, and
                        that nearly all we know of the town of twenty thousand has come into
                        existence in the last fifty years, there still exists in it, hovers over it,
                        the atmosphere of old France? Do we see, always, what we would like to see,
                        or is there something in this matter of predisposition, the planting of a
                        seed, however small, which eventually results in a tree of the parent stock?
                        I was scarcely prepared to believe that there was anything of old France
                        about this town—it seemed quite too much to ask, and yet rolling leisurely
                        through these streets, it seemed to me that there was a great deal of it.
                        The houses, quite a number of them, had that American French Colonial aspect
                        which we have all come to associate with their forbears, the palaces and
                        decorative arts of the high Louis! France, the modifier of the flamboyant
                        dreams of the Renaissance! France, the mother, really, of the classic styles
                        of England! The cooler, more meditative and Puritan spirit took all that was
                        best in the dreams and super-grand taste of the France of the Kings and
                        Emperors and gave us Heppelwhite and Sheraton, and those charming
                        architectural fancies known as Georgian. Or am I wrong?
                    And here in Vincennes, in the homes at least, there was something reminiscent
                        of this latter, while in the principal streets—Third and Second—and in the
                        names of some of the others, there was a suggestion of such towns or cities
                        as Rouen and Amiens—a mere suggestion, perhaps,  haps, some might insist, but definite enough to me. As a matter of fact,
                        tucked away in this southern river region of Indiana, it seemed very French,
                        and I recalled now that my first and only other connection with it had been
                        through a French woman, a girl protégé of my mother, who had married (she was
                        a wild, pagan creature, as I can testify) the manager or captain of the
                        principal fire station in the then city of twelve thousand. Before her
                        marriage, at Terre Haute, she had done sewing for my mother, in our more
                        prosperous days, and when conditions grew so bad that my mother felt that
                        she must get out of Terre Haute, instead of going to Sullivan direct (I do
                        not think her original intention was to go to Sullivan at all) she wrote
                        this French woman of her troubles, and upon her invitation visited her
                        there. For a period of six weeks, or longer, we lived in the apartment which
                        was a part of the fire captain's perquisites, and a part of the
                        central fire station itself—the rear half of the second floor. There must
                        have been some unimportant connection between this and the county jail or
                        central police station, or both, for in a building adjoining at the rear I
                        remember there was a jail, and that I could go back, if I chose, downstairs
                        and out, and see some of the incarcerated looking out through the bars. It
                        was a pleasant enough place as such things go, and my mother must have had
                        some idea of remaining in Vincennes, for not long after we arrived my sister
                        and brother and I were put in another Catholic School,—the bane of my
                        youthful life. This did not last very long, however, for shortly thereafter
                        we were taken out and removed to Sullivan. Eleven years later, at the time
                        of my mother's death in Chicago, this woman, who was then and there
                        a dressmaker, came to cry over her coffin and to declare my mother the best
                        friend she ever had.
                    My youthful impressions of Vincennes, sharp as they may have been at the
                        time, had by now become very vague. I remember that from the fire tower,
                        where hung an alarm bell and to which we were occasionally permitted to
                        ascend, the straight flowing Wabash River was 
                        to be seen; also that northward, toward Sullivan, were Merom Bluffs, where
                        pleasure seekers from Vincennes were accustomed to drive. My mother went
                        once. Also, that certain tow headed and dark girls seemed very numerous
                        about the fire station at night. Also that once, during our stay, there was
                        a big fire, and that we all arose and went out to join the great throng
                        watching it. Our host, the captain, was seen to mount a ladder and break in
                        a window and disappear in a red glow, much to my mother's and my
                        own horror. But he came back alive.
                    In ambling about, I found the exact firehouse, enlarged and improved,
                        "where it has always been," as one of the neighboring
                        tradesmen told me—new automobile engines and trucks in it—and then I was ready
                        to go. I had seen all I could hope to remember, even dimly. We hurried to a
                        neighboring garage, took on a store of oil and gasoline, and were off in the
                        twilight and the moonlight, for Evansville.
                    Uncertain is the outcome of all automobilists' plans forever and
                        ever, as with all other plans. Although we had inquired and inquired,
                        getting the exact way (and Franklin's conferences on these matters
                        were always extended and minute) we were soon safely on the wrong road. We
                        had been told to make for a place called Decker, via a town called Purcell,
                        but soon in the shades of a fast falling night we were scuttling up a
                        cowpath, under dark and ghostly trees.
                    "How would it do to call on some squirrel or chipmunk and pay our
                        respects?" suggested Franklin. "They appear to be about
                        the only people living here."
                    We decided to go back.
                    Once more on a fairly good road again, a mile or so back, we met a charming
                        milkmaid, with fine arms, pink cheeks, and two brimming buckets of milk.
                        Modestly, she told us we were on the wrong road.
                    "You should have kept the macadam road to Purcell. This goes to St.
                        Francisville across the river. But if you  go
                        up here a mile or two and take the first road to your left, it will bring
                        you to St. Thomas, and there's a road on from there to Decker. But
                        it would be better if you went back."
                    "Back? Never!" I said to Franklin, as the girl went on, and
                        thinking of the miles we had come. "It's a fine night.
                        Look at the moon." (There was an almost full moon showing a golden
                        tip in the eastern sky.) "Soon it will be as bright as day.
                        Let's ride on. We'll get to Evansville by morning, anyhow.
                        It's only sixty miles or so."
                    "Yes, if we could go straight," amended Bert,
                        pessimistically.
                    "Oh, we'll go straight enough. She says St. Thomas is only
                        eight miles to our left."
                    So on we went. The moon rose. Across flat meadows in the pale light, lamps in
                        distant houses looked like ships at sea, sailing off a sandy coast. There
                        were clumps of pines or poplars gracefully distributed about the landscape.
                        The air was moist, but so fragrant and warm! These were the bottom lands of
                        the White and Wabash Rivers, quite marshy in places, and fifteen miles
                        farther south we would have to cross the White River on a ferry.
                    We sped on. The road became sandy and soft. Now and then it broke into muddy
                        stretches where we had to go slow. From straggling teamsters we gathered
                        characteristic and sometimes amusing directions.
                    "Yuh go up here about four miles to Ed Peters' place.
                        It's the big white store on the corner—yuh can't miss it.
                        Then yuh turn to yer left about three miles, till yuh come to the school on
                        the high ground there (a rise of about eight feet it was). Then yuh turn to
                        yer right and go down through the marsh to the iron bridge, and
                        that'll bring yer right into the Decker Road."
                    We gathered this as we were leaving St. Thomas, a lonely Catholic outpost,
                        with a church and sisters' school of some kind.
                    On and on. Riding is delightful in such a country. In lovely cottages as we
                        tore past I heard mellifluous  voices singing
                        in some archaic way. You could see lighted lamps on the family tables,—a man
                        or woman or both sitting by reading. On doorsteps, in dooryards now and then
                        were loungers, possibly indifferent to the mosquitoes. The moon cleared to a
                        silvery perfection and lighted all the fields and trees. There were owl
                        voices and bats. In Ed Peters' place a crowd of country bumpkins
                        were disporting themselves.
                    "Har, har, har! Whee-oh!"
                    You should have heard the laughter. It was infectious.
                    A man outside directed us further. We came to the school, the iron bridge in
                        the marsh, and then by a wrong road away from Decker, but we found it
                        finally.
                    It was a railroad town. On the long steps of a very imposing country store,
                        lighted by flaring oil lamps, a great crowd of country residents (all men)
                        were gathered to see the train come in,—an event soon to happen, I gathered.
                        They swam in a Vierge or Goyaesque haze,—a full hundred of them, their ivory
                        faces picked out in spots by the uncertain light. We asked of one the road
                        to Evansville, and he told us to go back over the bridge and south, or to
                        our left, as we crossed the bridge.
                    "The ferry hain't here. It may be as ye can't get
                        across t'night. The river's runnin' purty
                        high."
                    "That would be a nice note, wouldn't it?"
                        commented Bert.
                    "Well, Decker looks interesting to me," observed Franklin.
                        "What's the matter with Decker? I'd like to
                        sketch that crowd anyhow."
                    We went on down to the ferry to see.
                    En route we encountered a perfectly horrible stretch of road—great, mucky ruts
                        that almost stalled the car—and in the midst of it an oil well, or the
                        flaring industry of driving one. There was a great towering well frame in
                        the air, a plunger, a forge, an engine, and various flaring torches set
                        about and men working. It was so attractive that, although up to this moment
                        we had been worrying about the car, we got out and went over, leaving 
                        
                            THE FERRY AT DECKER
                        
                         it standing in inches and inches of mud.
                        Watching the blaze of furnaces for sharpening drills and listening to the
                        monotonous plunging of the drill, we sat about here for half an hour basking
                        in the eerie effect of the torches in the moonlight and against the dark
                        wood. It was fascinating.
                    A little later we came to the waterside and the alleged ferry. It was only a
                        road that led straight into the river—a condition which caused Franklin to
                        remark that they must expect us to drive under. At the shore was a bell on a
                        post, with a rope attached. No sign indicated its import, but since far on
                        the other side we could see lights, we pulled it vigorously. It clanged loud
                        and long. Between us and the lights rolled a wide flood, smooth and yet
                        swiftly moving, apparently. Small bits of things could be seen going by in
                        the pale light. The moon on the water had the luster of an oyster shell.
                        There was a faint haze or fog which prevented a clear reflection.
                    But our bell brought no response. We stood here between bushes and trees
                        admiring the misty, pearly river, but we wanted to get on, too. On the other
                        side was a town. You could hear laughing voices occasionally, and scraps of
                        piano playing or a voice singing, but the immediate shore line was dark. I
                        seized the rope again and clanged and clanged "like a house
                        afire," Bert said.
                    Still no response.
                    "Maybe they don't run at night," suggested
                        Bert.
                    "He said the water might be too high," commented Franklin,
                        "It looks simple enough."
                    Once more I pulled the bell.
                    Then after another drift of moments there was a faint sound as of scraping
                        chains or oars, and after a few moments more, a low something began to
                        outline itself in the mist. It was a flat boat and it was coming, rigged to
                        an overhead wire and propelled by the water. It was coming quite fast, I
                        thought. Soon it was off shore and one of the two men aboard—an old man and a
                        young one—was doing something with the rear chain, pulling the boat farther
                        upstream, nearer the wire.
                    
                    "Git that end pole out of the way," called the older of the
                        two men, the one nearer us, and then the long, flat dish scraped the shore
                        and they were pushing it far inland with poles to make it fast.
                    "What's the matter? Couldn't you hear the
                        bell?" I inquired jocundly.
                    "Yes, I heard the bell, all right," replied the older man
                        truculently. "This here boat ain't supposed to run nights
                        anyhow in this here flood. Y'can't tell what'll
                        happen, logs and drifts comin' down. We've lost three
                        automobiles in her already as it is."
                    I speculated nervously as to that while he grumbled and fussed.
                    "Hook 'er up tight," he called to his assistant.
                        "She might slip out yet."
                    "But up at Decker," I added mischievously, "they
                        said you ran all night."
                    "They said! They said! Whadda they know about this here ferry?
                        I'm runnin' this, I guess. Havin' to git out here
                        nights, tar-erd (he was meaning tired) as I am, an' take this thing
                        back an' forth. I'm gittin' sick on it. I
                        hain't got to do it."
                    "I know," observed Franklin, "but we're
                        very anxious to get across tonight. We have to be in Evansville by morning
                        anyhow."
                    "Well, I don't know nothin' about that. All I know
                        is everybody's in a all-fired hurry to git across."
                    "Well, that's all right now, doctor," I soothed.
                        "We'll fix this up on the other side. You just take us
                        over like a good sort."
                    The aroma of a tip seemed to soothe him a little.
                    "Be keerful how you run that car," he commented to Bert.
                        "One feller ran his car on an' up-ended this thing
                        an' off he went. We never did get the machine out. She was carried
                        on down stream."
                    Bert manuvred the car very gingerly. Then we poled off in the moonlight, and
                        I could see plainly that there was a flood. We were slow getting out to
                        where the main current was, but once there its speed shocked me.  A vast, sullen volume of water was pouring
                        down—on and away into the Wabash, the Ohio, the Mississippi, the Gulf. I was
                        thinking how wonderful water is anyhow—out of the unknown, into the unknown,
                        like ourselves, it comes and goes. And here, like petty actors in a passing
                        play, we were crossing under the moon—the water as much a passing actor as
                        any of us.
                    "Better pay out more at the stern there," called the old
                        man to his helper. "She's pushin' her pretty
                        hard."
                    The water was fairly boiling along the upstream side.
                    "At any minute now," he continued, "a bundle of
                        drift or logs or weeds is like to come along and foul us, and then if that
                        there wire gave way, where'd we be?"
                    I felt a little uncomfortable at the thought, I confess—Franklin's
                        good machine, his inability to swim, the eddying swiftness of this
                        stream.
                    Fortunately, at this rate, the center was soon passed and we began to near
                        the other shore. The current drove us up into a deep-cut shallow inlet,
                        where they poled the punt close to shore and fastened it.
                    Then Bert had to make a swift run with the machine, for just beyond the end
                        of the boat was a steep incline up which we all had to clamber.
                    "Don't let 'er slip back on yer," he
                        cautioned. "If yer do, she's like to go back in the
                        water" . . . and Bert sent "her" snorting
                        uphill.
                    We paid the bill—fifty cents—(twentyfive of that being tacked on as a penalty
                        for routing him out "tar-erd as he was" and fifteen cents
                        extra for disturbing observations about drifts, lost automobiles, and the
                        like). Then we bustled up and through an interesting, cleanly looking place
                        called Hazleton (population twentyfive hundred) and so on toward Evansville,
                        which we hoped surely to reach by midnight.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LV
                    A MINSTREL BROTHER
                    BUT we didn't reach Evansville, for all our
                        declaration and pretence of our need. A delightful run along a delightful
                        road, overhung with trees (and now that we were out of the valley between
                        the two rivers, cut between high banks of tree shaded earth), brought us to
                        Princeton, a town so bright and clean looking that we were persuaded, almost
                        against our wishes, to pass the night here. Some towns have just so much
                        personality. They speak to you of pleasant homes and pleasant people—a genial
                        atmosphere. Here, as elsewhere, indeed, in all but the poorest of these
                        small midwestern towns, the center of it was graced by the court house, a
                        very presentable building, and four brightly lighted business sides. The
                        walks about the square were outlined, every fifty feet or less, by a
                        five-lamp standard. The stores were large and clean and bright. A drug store
                        we visited contained such an interesting array of postcards that I bought a
                        dozen—pictures of great grain elevators, four or five of which we had seen on
                        entering the town, sylvan scenes along the banks of the Patoka, a small lake
                        or watering place called "Long Pond," and scenes along
                        tree sheltered roads. I liked the spirit of these small towns, quite common
                        everywhere today, which seeks out the charms of the local life and embodies
                        them in colored prints, and I said so.
                    Walk into any drug or book store of any up to date small town today, and you
                        will find in a trice nearly every scene of importance and really learn the
                        character and charms of the vicinity. Thus at Conneaut, Ohio, but for the
                        picture postcards which chronicled the fact, we would never have seen the
                        giant cranes which  emptied steel cars like
                        coalscuttles. Again, except for the picture postcards displayed, I would
                        never have sensed the astonishing charms of Wilkes-Barré, San-dusky, or even
                        my native Terre Haute The picture cards told all, in a group, of what there
                        was to see.
                    We discovered a most interesting and attractive quick lunch here, quite snowy
                        and clean, with a bright, open grill at the back, and here, since we now
                        were hungry again, we decided to eat. Franklin saw cantaloupes in the window
                        and I announced that I had bought a picture card of a cantaloupe packing
                        scene in a town called Cantaloupe, which, according to my ever ready map,
                        was back on the road we had just come through.
                    "They ought to be good around here," he commented, rather
                        avidly, I thought. "Nice, fresh cantaloupe right out of the
                        field."
                    We entered.
                    I did not know, really, how seriously Franklin craved fresh, ripe, cold
                        muskmelon in hot weather until we got inside.
                    "We'll have muskmelon, eh?" he observed
                        eagerly.
                    "All right. I'll divide one with you."
                    "Oh, no," he returned, with the faintest rise in his
                        inflection. "I'd like a whole one."
                    "Delighted, Franklin," I replied. "On with the
                        dance. Let muskmelon, etc."
                    He went to the counter and persuaded the waiter maid to set forth for him two
                        of the very largest—they were like small watermelons—which he brought
                        over.
                    "These look like fine melons," he observed.
                    "They're splendid," said the girl. "This
                        is a melon country."
                    A traveling salesman who was eating over at another table exclaimed,
                        "I can vouch for that."
                    Franklin and I began. They were delicious—fragrant, a luscious product of a
                        rich soil. We ate in silence, and when his was consumed, he observed, eyeing
                        me speculatively, "I believe I could stand another
                        one."
                    "Franklin!" I exclaimed reproachfully.
                    
                    "Yes, I could," he insisted. "They're
                        great, don't you think so?"
                    "As good as ever I have eaten—better even."
                    "That settles it. I'm going to have one more."
                    He brought it over and ate it alone, while I sat and talked to him and
                        marveled. Once more, when he was finished, he fixed me with his eye.
                    "Well, now, how do you feel?" I inquired.
                    "Fine. You know—you'll think it's funny—but I could
                        eat another—a half anyhow."
                    "Franklin!" I exclaimed. "This is too much. Two
                        whole melons and now a third!"
                    "Do you think it's too much?"
                    There was a sort of childish navet about the inquiry which moved me to
                        laughter—and firmness. Franklin achieves this quite unconsciously, at times—a
                        certain self-abnegating shyness.
                    "I certainly do. Here it is after eleven. We are supposed to be up
                        early and off—and here you sit eating muskmelons by the crate. This is
                        shameful. Besides, you can get more tomorrow. We are in the land of the
                        muskmelon."
                    "Oh, all right," he consented, quite crestfallen.
                    I did not realize at the time that I was actually stopping him, and before he
                        had enough. It was a joke on my part.
                    The next day was Wednesday, a bright, sunny day, and pleasantly cool. The sun
                        streaming under my black shades at six and earlier awoke me, and I arose and
                        surveyed the small town, as much of it as I could see from my window and
                        through encircling trees. It was as clean and homey and pleasing as it had
                        seemed the night before. By now Franklin, hearing me stirring, was up too,
                        and we awakened Bert, who was still asleep. If we were to get to Evansville
                        and on to Indianapolis and Carmel again in this one day, it would have to be
                        a long and speedy run, but even now I began to doubt whether we should make
                        it. Evansville was too interesting to me, as one of my home towns. It was
                        all of fifty miles away  as we would ride, and
                        after that would come a crosscountry run of one hundred and fortyfive miles
                        as the crow flies, or counting the twists and turns we would make, say one
                        hundred and seventyfive miles—a scant calculation. There were, as my map
                        showed, at least seven counties to cross on returning. In our path lay
                        French Lick and West Baden—the advertised Carlsbads of America. North of that
                        would be Bedford, the home of the world's supply of Indiana
                        limestone, and beyond it Bloomington, the seat of the State University,
                        where I had spent one dreamy, lackadaisical year. After that a run of at
                        least sixtyfive miles straight, let alone winding, before we could enter
                        Carmel.
                    "It can't be done, Franklin," I argued, as we
                        dressed. "You said three days, but it will be four at the earliest,
                        if not five. I want to see a little of Evansville and
                        Bloomington."
                    "Well, if we have decent roads, we can come pretty near doing
                        it," he insisted. "Certainly we can get home by tomorrow
                        night. I ought to. I have a lot of things to do in town
                        Friday."
                    "Well, you're the doctor," I agreed, "so
                        long as I see what I want to see."
                    We bustled downstairs, agreeing to breakfast in Evansville. It was six
                        thirty. Those favored souls who enjoy rising early in the morning and
                        looking after their flowers were abroad, admiring, pinching, cutting,
                        watering. It was a cheering spectacle. I respect all people who love
                        flowers. It seems to me one of the preliminary, initiative steps in a love
                        and understanding of beauty. Evansville came nearer at a surprising rate. I
                        began to brush up my local geography and list in my mind the things I must
                        see—the houses in which we had lived, the church and school which I was made
                        to attend, the Ohio River, at the foot of Main Street—where once in January,
                        playing with some boys, I fell into the river, knocked off a floating
                        gangway, and came desperately near being swept away by the ice. Then I must
                        see Blount's Plow Works, and the chair factory of Messrs. Nienaber
                        and  Fitton, where my brother Al worked for a
                        time, and where of a Saturday I often went to help him. And the Evansville
                        Ironstone Pottery Company must be found, too, at whose low windows I was
                        wont to stand and delightedly watch the men form cups, plates, pitchers,
                        etc., out of grey, wet clay. This seemed to me the most wonderfull
                        manufacturing process of all those witnessed by me in my youth. It was so
                        gracefully and delicately accomplished. There was only one other thing that
                        compared in interest, and that was the heating and melting of iron in great
                        furnaces in an enormous iron foundry on the same street with the Catholic
                        School which I used to pass every day and where the pouring of the
                        glistening metal into cauldrons and the pouring of that into wondrously
                        intricate moulds of sand, whereby were shaped iron fences, grating, culvert
                        tops, had always been of the intensest interest to me.
                    The essential interest of Evansville to me, however, was that at that
                        particular time in my youth, and just at the time when seemingly things had
                        reached a crisis for my mother—whose moods were invariably my own—Evansville
                        had appeared like a splendid new chapter in our lives, and resolved all of
                        our difficulties, for the time being, into nothing. How was this done? Well,
                        as I have indicated somewhere, I believe, our oldest brother, the oldest
                        living member of the family of children, had come to my mother's
                        rescue in the nick of time. By now he was a successful, though up to this
                        time wandering, minstrel man—an "end man," no less. But,
                        more recently still, he had secured a position with a permanent or stock
                        minstrel company located in the Evansville Opera House, where he was honored
                        with the position of interlocutor and end man, as the mood prompted him, and
                        where nightly he was supposed to execute a humorous monologue. Incidentally,
                        he was singing his own songs. Also, incidentally he was conducting a
                        humorous column in a local paper, the Evansville Argus.
                        The fences and billboards of the city attested to his comparative
                        popularity,  for a large red and yellow single
                        sheet print of his face was conspicuously displayed in many windows.
                    His life so far had proved a charming version of the prodigal son. As a boy
                        of seventeen, for errors which need not be recounted here, he was driven out
                        of the home. As a man of twentyseven (or boy) he had now returned (the
                        winter previous to our moving) adorned with a fur coat, a high silk hat, a
                        gold-headed cane.
                    My mother cried on his shoulder and he on hers. He really loved her so
                        tenderly, so unwaveringly, that this in itself constituted a fine romance.
                        At once he promised to solve all her difficulties. She must come out of
                        this. He was going to Evansville now. There is a bit of private history
                        which should be included here, but which I do not wish to relate, at
                        present. The result was that thereafter a weekly letter containing a few
                        dollars—three or four—arrived every Monday. (How often have I gone to the
                        postoffice to get it!) Then there was some talk of a small house he was
                        going to rent, and of the fact that we were soon to move. Then one summer
                        day we did go and I recall so well how, arriving in Evansville at about nine
                        o'clock at night (my mother and we three youngest), we were met at
                        the station by the same smiling, happy brother, and taken to the house at
                        1413 East Franklin Street; where on seeing her new home and its rather
                        comfortable equipment, my mother stood in the doorway and criedand he with
                        her. I cannot say more than that. It all seems too wonderful—too beautiful,
                        even now.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVI
                    EVANSVILLE
                    BUT I cannot possibly hope to convey the delicious sting
                        life had in it for me at this time as a spectacle, a dream, something in
                        which to bathe and be enfolded, as only youth and love know life. Not
                        Evansville alone but life itself was beautiful—the sky, the trees, the sun,
                        the visible scene. People hurrying to and fro or idling in the shade, the
                        sound of church bells, of whistles, a wide stretch of common. Getting up in
                        the morning, going to bed at night. The stars, the winds, hunger, thirst,
                        the joy of playing or of idly musing.
                    In Evansville I was just beginning to come out of the dream period which held
                        for me between the years of seven and eleven. The significance of necessity
                        and effort were for the first time beginning to suggest themselves. Still, I
                        was not awake, only vaguely disturbed at times, like a silky, shimmery sea,
                        faintly touched by vagrom winds. The gales and storms were to come fast
                        enough. I was really not old enough to understand all or even any of the
                        troublesome conditions affecting our family. Like my companionable brother
                        and sister, I was too young, undaunted, hopeful. Sometimes, in my dreams, a
                        faint suggestion of my mood at the time comes back, and then I know how I
                        have changed—the very chemistry of me. I do not respond now as I did then, or
                        at any rate, I think not.
                    As we neared the city we could see the ground elevating itself in the
                        distance, and soon we were riding along a ridge or elevated highroad,
                        suggestively alive with traffic and dotted with houses.
                    Evansville is a southern city, in spite of the fact that  it is Indiana, and has all the characteristic marks of a
                        southern city—a hot, drowsy, almost enervating summer, an early spring, a
                        mild winter, a long, agreeable autumn. Snow falls but rarely and does not
                        endure long. Darkies abound, whole sections of them, and work on the levee,
                        the railroad, and at scores of tasks given over to whites in the north. You
                        see them ambling about carrying packages, washing windows, driving trucks
                        and autos, waiting on table. It is as though the extreme south had reached
                        up and just touched this projecting section of Indiana.
                    Again, it is a German city, strangely enough, a city to which thousands of
                        the best type of German have migrated. Despite the fact that Vincennes and
                        Terre Haute were originally French, and then English, except for small
                        sections through here, the German seems to predominate. We saw many German
                        farmers, the Americanized type, coming up from Terre Haute, and here in
                        Evansville German names abounded. It was as true of my days as a boy here as
                        it is now—even more so, I believe. There are a number of purely German
                        Catholic or Lutheran churches controlled by Bavarian priests or
                        ministers.
                    Again it is a distinctly river type of town, with that floating population of
                        river squatters—you can always tell them—drifting about. I saw a dozen in the
                        little while I was there, river nomads or gypsies bustling about, dark,
                        sallow, small, rugged. I have seen them at St. Louis, at Memphis, in
                        Savannah, where the boats come up from the sea and down from Augusta. I can
                        always tell them.
                    Once inside the city, I was interested to note that most cities, like people,
                        retain their characteristics permanently. Thus in my day, Evansville was
                        already noted as a furniture manufacturing city. Plainly it was so still. In
                        half a dozen blocks we passed as many large furniture companies, all their
                        windows open and the whir and drone of their wheels and saws and planes
                        pouring forth a happy melody. Again, it was already at that time
                        establishing a reputation for the manufacture of cheap pottery;  and here, to our left, was a pottery crowded
                        in among other things, not large, but still, a pottery. If there was one, we
                        might expect others.
                    At the edge of the town, making its way through a notable gorge, was Pigeon
                        Creek, a stream in which Ed, Al and I had often bathed and fished, and to
                        the shore of which we had been led, on divers occasions, by a stout German
                        Catholic priest, or three or four of them, giving an annual or semiannual
                        picnic. The fact that the land rises at this section was probably what
                        attracted the first settlers here, and gives to this creek and the heart of
                        the city a picturesque and somewhat differentiated character.
                    Not far from the center of the city, in a region which I once considered very
                        remote, we passed the double-steepled church of St. Anthony, an institution
                        which, because I was taken to its dedication by my father, I had retained in
                        memory as something imposing. It was not at all—a rather commonplace church
                        in red brick and white stone, such as any carpenter and builder of Teutonic
                        extraction might design and execute. A little farther on, facing my much
                        beloved Vine Street, where stood Holy Trinity Catholic Church and School,
                        and along which, morning and evening, I used to walk, I discovered the
                        Vanderburg County Court House, filling a space of ground which had once been
                        our public school playground. It was very large, very florate, and very like
                        every other court house in America.
                    Friends, why is it that American architects can design nothing different—or is
                        it that our splendidly free and unconventional people will not permit them?
                        I sometimes feel that there could not exist a more dull witted nation
                        architecturally than we are. In so far as intelligence is supposed to
                        manifest itself in the matter of taste, we give no evidence of having
                        any—positively none. Our ratiocinations are of the flock, herd or school
                        variety. We run with the pack. Some mountebank Simon in art, literature,
                        politics, architecture, cries "thumbs up," and up goes
                        every blessed thumb from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Then some other
                        pseudoratiocinating  ass calls
                        "thumbs down," and down go all thumbs—not a few, but all.
                        Let a shyster moralist cry that Shakespeare is immoral and his plays are at
                        once barred from all the schools of a dozen states. Let a quack nostrum
                        peddling zany declare that the young must not be contaminated, and out go
                        all the works of Montagne, Ibsen, Hauptmann, Balzac, on the ground,
                        forsooth, that they will injure the young. Save the sixteen year old girl,
                        if you must make mushheads and loons, absolute naturals, of every citizen
                        from ocean to ocean!
                    I despair, really. I call for water and wash my hands. A land with such
                        tendencies can scarcely be saved, unless it be by disaster. We need to be
                        tried by fire or born again. We do not grasp the first principles of
                        intellectual progress.
                    But our breakfast! Our breakfast! Before getting it I had to take Franklin to
                        view the Ohio River from Water Street (I do believe they have changed the
                        name to Riverside Drive, since New York has one) for I could not rest until
                        he had seen one of the most striking American river scenes of which I know
                        anything. I know how the Hudson joins the ocean at New York, the Missouri
                        the Mississippi at St. Louis, the Moselle the Rhine, at Coblenz, the New and
                        Big Kanawha in the picturesque mountains of West Virginia, and the Alleghany
                        the Monongahela to make the Ohio in Pittsburg—but this sweep of the Ohio,
                        coming up from the South and turning immediately south again in a mighty
                        elbow which pushes at the low hill on which the city stands, is tremendous.
                        You know this is a mighty river, bearing the muddy waters of half a
                        continent, by merely looking at it. It speaks for itself.
                    Standing on this fronting street of this purely commercial city, whose
                        sloping levee sinks to the water's edge, you see it coming, miles
                        and miles away, this vast body of water; and turning, you see it
                        disappearing around a lowland, over whose few weak and yellow trees the
                        water frequently passes. In high water, whole towns and valleys fall before
                        it. Houses and cabins go by on its flood.  On
                        it ride those picturesque sternwheelers, relics of an older order of
                        navigation, and here on this bright August morning were several anchored at
                        our feet. They were fastened to floating wharves, chained to the shore. On
                        the long, downward slope of cobble stones were lying boxes and bales, the
                        evidence of a river traffic that no inimical railroad management can utterly
                        kill. A river capable of bearing almost all the slow freight of a half score
                        of states is left to distribute the minor shipments of perhaps four or five.
                        Franklin and Bert were struck with it, which pleased me greatly, for it is
                        pleasant to bring another to a great view. They exclaimed over its scope and
                        beauty.
                    Then we went looking for a restaurant. Although the killing of game was still
                        out of season, we found one where broiled squirrels were being offered for
                        the humble sum of sixty cents. We feasted. Our conservative chauffeur
                        declared, as we sat down, that he did not care for anything much, and then
                        ordered a steak, three eggs, a pot of coffee, a bowl of wheatena, muffins
                        and hashed brown potatoes, topped off with a light plate of waffles and
                        maple syrup.
                    "Bert," exclaimed Franklin, "you really
                        aren't as strong as you might be this morning. You must look after yourself."
                    He scarcely heard. Lost in a sea of provender, he toiled on, an honest driver
                        worthy of his hire.
                    And here it was that the question of muskmelons once more arose—this time to
                        plague me—melons which, as we have seen, were as plentiful as manna in the
                        desert.
                    "Now," Franklin observed with unction as we sat down,
                        "I'm going to have another muskmelon."
                    "Right," I congratulated him, with the air of a generous
                        host, "now's the time."
                    "Give me a nice large, cold muskmelon," he observed to the
                        darky who now appeared, napkin on arm.
                    "Sorry, boss," replied that worthy, "we
                        ain't got no mushmelers dis mawnin. Dey ain't none to be
                        had in de maaket."
                    
                    
                        THE OHIO AT EVANSVILLE
                    
                    
                    "What's that?" I demanded, looking up and getting
                        nervous, for we were in the very bcrt restaurant the city afforded.
                        "No muskmelons! What are you talking about? We saw fields of
                        them—miles of them—between here and Vincennes and Sullivan."
                    "Da's right, boss. Da's where dey grows. You see
                        'um dere all right. But dey don't allus bring 'um
                        down here. Dis ain't no maaket. Dey go noth and east—to New Yawk and
                        Chicago. Da's what it is."
                    "You mean to say you can't get me a single melon?"
                        queried Franklin feebly, a distinct note of reproach in his voice. He even
                        glanced my way.
                    "Sorry, boss. If dey wuz to be had, we'd have 'um.
                        Yessir—dis is de place. We cain't git 'um—da's
                        it."
                    Franklin turned upon me coldly.
                    "That's what comes of not eating all that I wanted to when
                        I wanted to. Hang it all."
                    "Franklin," I said. "I am stricken to the earth. I
                        crawl before you. Here is dust and here are ashes." I gesticulated
                        with my arms. "If I had thought for one moment—"
                    "And all those fine melons up there!"
                    "I agree," I said.
                    He buried his face in the bill of fare and paid no attention to me. Only
                        Bert's declining state of health restored him, eventually, and we
                        left quite cheerful.
                    Only a block or two from our restaurant was the St. George Hotel, my
                        brother's resort, unchanged and as old fashioned as ever, white,
                        with green lattices, rocking chairs out in front, an airy, restful, summery
                        look about it. How, once upon a time, he loved to disport himself here with
                        all the smart idlers of the town! I can see him yet, clothed to perfection,
                        happy in his youth, health and new found honors, such as they were. Then
                        came Holy Trinity (church and school), at Third and Vine, an absolutely
                        unchanged institution. It had shrunk and lost quality, as had everything
                        else nearly with which I had been connected. The school fence, the
                        principal's red  brick house at the
                        back (how I used to dread it), the church next door, with the rear passage
                        by which, when we were extra good, we went to receive colored picture cards
                        of the saints or Jesus or Mary, and when we were bad—to be warned by the
                        priest.
                    The latter adventure was terrible. It had never befallen me, but other boys
                        had experienced it.
                    I cannot possibly convey to you, I fear, how very definitely this particular
                        school and church impressed me at the time. Although I had started in
                        several schools, this was really my first. By this time my mother was
                        beginning to doubt the efficacy of Catholic schools in general (how they
                        would have condemned her for that!), but as yet she was not quite positive
                        enough in her own mind to insist on a change. When I found it was another
                        Catholic school I was to attend I was very downhearted. I was terrorized by
                        the curriculum, the admixture of priests, nuns and one bewhiskered Herr
                        Professor, very young and as he seemed to me very terrible, a veritable
                        ogre, who ruled the principal school room here. Really he was a most amazing
                        person in his way. He had blazing eyes, heavy black eyebrows, black hair, a
                        full black beard, and he walked with a dynamic stride which, as it seemed to
                        me, was sufficient to shake the earth. He controlled the principal or
                        highest grade, and I, now eleven years of age and with a tendency to read a
                        little of everything, was deemed fit to be put there—why I never can
                        tell.
                    Oh, those two terrible years! The best I can say for them or the worst is
                        this, that outside the school and at home was heaven; inside was hell. This
                        young professor had the German idea of stern, vigorous control; in which he
                        was supported by the parish rector. He whipped boys vigorously, and possibly
                        for the type of youth under him this was just the thing. They were
                        unquestionably a tough, thick-bottomed lot, and they made my life a
                        nightmare into the bargain. It seems to me now as I look back on it that I
                        learned nothing at all, not even catechism. The school rooms were always
                        being prowled over by the rector and various nuns and sisters superior,
                        whose  sole concern seemed to be that we
                        should learn our catechism and be "graduated," at twelve
                        years of age, whether we knew anything or not. Think of it! I am not grossly
                        lying or exaggerating about the Catholic Church and its methods. I am
                        telling you what I felt, saw, endured.
                    During these two years, as it seems to me, I never learned anything about
                        anything. There was a "Bible history" there which
                        entertained me so much that I read in it constantly, to the neglect of
                        nearly everything else; and some of the boys brought "Diamond
                        Dick" or its that day equivalent, and these we read under the
                        seats, I among others, though I liked my "Bible history"
                        and my geography (such as it was) better. On several occasions I had my
                        hands severely marked by a ruler, wielded by the Herr Professor Falk—great
                        red welts put across both my palms, because I whispered or laughed or did
                        not pay attention. And once he pulled my ear so hard that I cried. He had a
                        "habit" (shall I call it) of striking disorderly boys
                        across the cheek so hard and so fiercely that their faces blazed for an
                        hour; or of seizing them, laying them over a bench and beating them with a
                        short rawhide whip. Once I saw a boy whom he intended so to whip turn on
                        him, strike him across the face, and run and jump out the window to the
                        ground, say seven feet below. To me, at that time, with my viewpoint on
                        life, it was dreadful. My heart used to beat so I thought I would faint, and
                        I lived in constant dread lest I be seized and handled in the same way.
                        Whenever we met him or the Catholic priest or any other dignitary connected
                        with the school or church we were supposed (compelled is the right word) to
                        take off our hats. And if it was a priest we had to say, in German,
                        "praised be Jesus Christ," to which he would reply
                        "Amen." When school was over, at four P. M., I would creep
                        away, haunted by the thought that on the morrow I would have to return.
                    Next to the school was the Church, and this also had been more or less of a
                        torture to me, though not quite so much so. Here the Reverend Anton
                        Dudenhausen (I  am not inventing his name) was
                        supreme, and here I made my first confession (no real sins at all,
                        really—fibbing to my mother was the worst), and received my first communion.
                        It was not a very striking church, but then with its gilt altars, the
                        candles, the stained glass windows, the statues and stations of the cross,
                        it seemed quite wonderful—only I was always afraid of it all! It seemed alien
                        to the soul of me.
                    Entering it this day I found it just the same, not quite as large as I had
                        fancied but still of good size as such churches go.
                    I recalled now with a kind of half pleasure, half pain, all the important
                        functions that went on in this church, the celebrations of Easter, Christmas
                        (the whole Christchild manger fable set forth life size and surrounded by
                        candles), Palm Sunday, Good (or Black) Friday, when everything in the church
                        was draped in black, the forty days of Lent, and the masses, high or low,
                        sung on every great saint's day or when bishops or missionaries
                        (the latter to billysunday us) or other dignitaries came to visit us. My
                        father was always much wrought up about these things when he was at home and
                        the church always seemed to blaze with banners, candles and crowds of
                        acolytes in red and white or visiting priests in white and gold. I always
                        felt as though heaven must be an amazing and difficult place to reach if so
                        much fuss over the mere trying for it here was necessary.
                    Then, in addition, there were the collections, communions, church fairs,
                        picnics, raffles—a long line of amazing events, the chief importance of which
                        was, as it seemed to me, the getting of money for the church. Certainly the
                        Catholics know how to keep their communicants busy, and even worried. My
                        recollection of school and church life here is one confused jumble of
                        masses, funerals, processions, lessons in catechism, the fierce beating of
                        recalcitrant pupils, instructions preparatory to my first confession and
                        communion, the meeting of huge dull sodalities or church societies with
                        endless banners and emblems—  (the men a poor
                        type of workingmen)—and then marching off somewhere to funerals, picnics and
                        the like out of the school or church yard.
                    Inside (and these were partly what I was coming to see today) were the
                        confessional, where I once told my sins to the Reverend Anton, and the altar
                        rail and the altar, where once I had been received in Holy Communion and was
                        confirmed by the Bishop, sitting on a high throne and arrayed in golden
                        canonicals of the church. I can see him now—a pale, severe German, with a
                        fine nose and hard blue eyes. I can feel his cool fingers anointing my
                        forehead. Think of the influence of such formulas and all gorgeous flummery
                        on the average mind! Is it any wonder that so many succumb permanently to
                        theories and isms so gloriously arrayed? The wonder to me is that any child
                        should ever be able to throw off the oppressive weight—the binding chains
                        thus riveted on him.
                    Today, because it was so near September, they were cleaning the schoolrooms
                        and preparing them for a new batch of victims. Think of the dull functioning
                        of dogma, century after century, age after age. How many millions and
                        billions have been led—shunted along dogmatic runways from the dark into the
                        dark again. They do not fell them with an axe as at the stockyards, nor open
                        their veins with a knife as befalls the squealing swine, but they fell and
                        bleed them just the same. I am not ranting against Catholicism alone. As
                        much may be said of Mohammedanism, Confucianism, Shintoism, Brahmanism,
                        Buddhism—the Methodist, Presbyterian, Baptist yokes. It is possible that for
                        the latter it may be said that the chains are not so difficult to break. I
                        don't know. But here they come, endless billions; and at the gates
                        dogma, ignorance, vice, cruelty seize them and clamp this or that band about
                        their brains or their feet. Then hobbled, or hamstrung, they are turned
                        loose, to think, to grow if possible. As well ask of a eunuch to procreate,
                        or of an ox to charge. The incentive to discover is gone.
                    Says the dogmatist, "See, this is the manner of it. If  you dare to think otherwise, you are damned.
                        Your soul will grill in hell—and here is the nature of that
                        hell."
                    Poor life! I wonder that ever an Athens came to pass or a Rome arose, to have
                        so glorious a fall!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVII
                    THE BACKWOODS OF INDIANA
                    STOPPING to look at the old school door I went in. I
                        recalled how, once upon a time, when we were first starting to school here,
                        we tried to induce Ed to enter, he being the youngest and very shy as to
                        education. But he refused to go and ran back home. The next day my sister
                        Sylvia and I and Tillie took him, but at the gate he once more balked and
                        refused to enter. It was a dreadful situation, for already we others had
                        found the discipline here to be very stern. Perhaps it was Ed's
                        subconscious realization of what was about to be done to his soul that
                        terrified him. At any rate, when pressed to come he cried and even screamed,
                        making such an uproar that that same Herr Professor Ludwig Falk, ogreific
                        soul that he was, came rushing out, grabbed him, and carried him, squalling,
                        within. For a time he was not to be dealt with even there, but finding
                        eventually that no one harmed him, he sat down and from that day to the time
                        he left, two years later, learned nothing at all, not even his catechism—for
                        which same I am truly grateful. But the formalism of the church caught him,
                        its gold and colors and thunderings as to hell, and now he is as good a
                        Catholic as any and as fearful of terrific fires.
                    Once inside, in the same room in which I used to sit and fear for my life and
                        learned nothing, I encountered a black-garbed sister, her beads dangling at
                        her waist, the same kind that used to overawe and terrify me in my youth.
                        Because she looked at me curiously I bowed and then explained:
                        "Once I went to school here—over thirty years ago." (I
                        could see she assumed I was still a good Catholic.) I went on: "I
                        sat in this seat here. It was the third row from the wall, about six seats
                        back.  A Mr. Falk was my teacher here then,
                        and a Father Dudenhausen the pastor."
                    "Yes," she said simply, "I have heard of Mr.
                        Falk—but he has not been here for years. He left many years ago. Father
                        Dudenhausen died fifteen years ago."
                    "Yes, so I heard," I replied, "and Father
                        Livermann—do you know of him?"
                    "No, I never heard of him, but if you will go to the pastor in the
                        house back of the church, he can tell you. He would be pleased to see
                        someone who had been here so long ago."
                    I smiled. I was only fortyfour, but how old I really was, after all.
                    Then Franklin came in with his camera.
                    "Do you mind if we take a picture of it?" I asked.
                    "Not at all," she replied. "It would be
                        nice."
                    "How would you like to sit at the desk there? I have sat in rooms
                        where a sister was my teacher."
                    "Oh, I think I'd better not," she replied.
                        "I'm not sure if it's permissible.
                        I—"
                    Just then another, an older, nun came in, and she put the matter to her in
                        soft whispers.
                    She was dying to do it. I could see that.
                    "Well, the rules," I heard the other say aloud.
                    There was more whispering, and then she mounted the platform and turned her
                        head sidewise so that her bonnet concealed her face. Franklin snapped
                        her.
                    "Would you like a copy of it, if it turns out well?" I
                        inquired.
                    "Oh, it would please me very much."
                    "And your name?"
                    "Sister Mary Caroline—316 Vine Street."
                    I took one last look and went out.
                    Outside was the yard in which we had always played. As an eleven and
                        twelve-year-old boy, this had seemed a dreadful place to me—one of brawls and
                        arguments. I was not a fighter nor tough enough physically to share in the
                        rough sports that went on here—leap frog, snap the whip, and bean bag. I did,
                        but I was always getting  the worst of it and
                        in addition, for some unaccountable reason, I was always finding myself
                        involved in fights. Suddenly, out of a clear sky, without my having said a
                        word to anybody, I would be the object of some bucky little
                        American's or German-American's rage or opposition—a fist
                        would be shaken in my face. I would be told to "wait till after
                        school." After school a crowd would gather. I would be led, as it
                        were, like a lamb to the slaughter. The crowd would divide into
                        "sides." I would be urged to take off my coat and
                        "go for him." But I was never much on the go. Somehow I
                        did not know how to fight; even when at times I thought I ought to, or might
                        win. A chance blow once won me a victory and great applause. I knocked my
                        opponent flat—and all the fight out of him apparently—but quite by accident. I
                        hadn't intended to at all. At other times I received undeserved
                        beatings, which left me wondering what I had done and why life was so
                        fierce. It made me shy of other boys. I kept out of trouble by keeping away
                        from them, wandering about by myself and rejoicing in the beauty of life as
                        a whole—its splendid, spectacular reality.
                    Inside the Church was nothing to disturb me or cause me to alter my point of
                        view. It was just the same. There was the Reverend Anton
                        Dudenhausen's confessional, front, left; and here were all the
                        altars, statues, stations, windows, just as I had left them. I looked up at
                        the organ loft where I had pumped air for the organ, weekdays and Sundays.
                        It was apparently as I had left it. Kind heaven, I exclaimed to myself,
                        standing in here, what a farce life is anyhow. Here is this same Church,
                        from the errors and terrors of which I managed by such hard straits of
                        thought to escape, and here is a city and a school pouring more and more
                        victims into its jaws and maw year after year after year, year after year!
                        Supposing one does escape? Think of all the others! And if this were the
                        middle ages I would not even dare write this. They would burn me at the
                        stake. As it is, if any attention is paid to me at all I will be denounced
                        as a liar, a maligner, a person with a diseased brain, as one of my dear
                        relative  (Catholic of course) condescended to
                        remark. Yet at my elbow as I write stands the Encyclopedia Britannica and
                        Van Ranke's "History of The Papacy," and a life
                        of Torquemada, to say nothing of scores of volumes demolishing the folly of
                        religious dogma completely—and yet—and yet—the poor victims of such
                        unbelievable tommyrot as this would be among the first to destroy me and
                        these things—the very first.
                    A little way down Vine Street from the school was the old foundry, now
                        enlarged and doing a good business in old metal melting and recasting. We
                        turned into Main, where it joined Vine, and there a block away was Blounts
                        Iron Works unchanged. Thirtythree years had not made a particle of
                        difference. The walls were as red and dusty, the noise as great. I went
                        along the windows, looking in, and so interesting were the processes that
                        Franklin joined me. In exactly the same positions, at the same windows, were
                        seemingly the same men at the exact machines, heating, welding, shaping and
                        grinding shares. It was astonishing. I felt young for the moment. At these
                        windows, with my books under my arm, I had always lingered as long as I
                        dared, only I recalled now that my eyes then came just above the window
                        sills, whereas now the sills touched my middle chest. It was almost too good
                        to be true.
                    And there, up Main Street, quite plainly was the railroad station we entered
                        the night we came from Sullivan, and whence we departed two years later for
                        Chicago and Warsaw—only it had been rebuilt. It was a newer, a grander
                        affair—a Union Station, no less. Then we had slipped in, my mother and her
                        helpless brood, and were met by Paul and put on a little one horse street
                        car which had no conductor at the rear but only a small step, and in which,
                        after depositing coins in a case where a light was, we rode a few blocks to
                        Franklin Street. I recalled the night, the stars, the clang of summer engine
                        bells, the city's confusing lights. It seemed so wonderful, this
                        city; after Sullivan, so great. It had forty or fifty thousand people then
                        (seventyfive thousand today). On the train, 
                        
                            A BEAUTIFUL TREE ON A VILE ROAD Warwick County,
                                Indiana
                        
                         as we came in, it seemed as if we were coming
                        into fairyland.
                    "Mister," I said to a passing Southern water type, a small,
                        gypsyish, swarthy little man, "can you tell us where Franklin
                        Street is?"
                    "Why, sweetheart, right they it is—right they at the
                        conoh."
                    The eyes poured forth a volume of gentle sunny humor. I smiled back. It was
                        like being handed a bouquet of roses.
                    We turned into Franklin Street and rode such a little way—two blocks say. The
                        house was easy to identify, even though the number had now been made 1415.
                        It was now crowded in between a long row of brick and frame houses, of
                        better construction, and the neighborhood had changed entirely in physical
                        appearance though not in atmosphere. Formerly, save for our house, all was
                        open common here. You could see from our house to the station at which we
                        had arrived—from our house to the interesting potteries which I still hoped
                        to find, east or toward the country. You could see north to the woods and an
                        outlying Catholic Orphan Asylum.
                    Now all that was changed. It was all filled with houses. Streets that in my
                        time had not even been platted now ran east and west and north and south.
                        Our large yard and barn were gone. The house had no lawn at all, or just a
                        tiny scrap in front. The fine commons at the back where all the neighborhood
                        boys gathered to play ball, circus, top, marbles, was solidly built over
                        with houses. I remembered how I used to run, kicking my bare toes in clover
                        blooms in the summer. Once a bee stung me and I sat down and cried; then
                        getting no aid, I made a paste of mud and saliva and held that
                        on—instructions from big Ed Fisher, one of our neighborhood gang. I recalled
                        how Ed and I played one old cat here with Harry Trochee, the gypsy
                        trader's son, up the street, and how we both hated to have to run
                        up the street to Main Street to the grocer's or butcher's
                        for anything. Here I could stand and see the steeple of Holy Trinity, clear
                        across the  city at Third and Pine, and hear
                        the Angelus tolled, morning, noon and night. It was beautiful to me—I have
                        often paused to listen—and to feel. Across the common of a Saturday I have
                        wandered to the potteries to look in at the windows at so many interesting
                        things that were being made.
                    "Shall we stop?" asked Franklin, as we neared the door.
                    "Please don't. I don't want to go
                        in."
                    Some little children were playing on our small front porch.
                    And next came the potteries themselves, over in the exact region where they
                        should have been, but now swollen to enormous proportions. The buildings
                        extended for blocks. Hundreds, if not thousands, of men and women must have
                        been at work here. You could see them at all the windows, turning cups,
                        saucers, plates, bowls, pitchers, tureens—thousands in a day. The size and
                        the swing of it all was like a song. We got out and wandered about up and
                        down the low red walls, looking at windows and doors, seeing the thousands
                        upon thousands of bits of clay being shaped into the forms which they retain
                        for a little while only to be returned to their native nothingness again. So
                        may we be shaped and cast back broken—to be used some day for something
                        else.
                    "The methods have changed," said one man, talking to me
                        through a window. "Twenty years ago a lot of the work was still
                        done by hand, but now we do it all by machinery. We have forms like
                        this"—and he held up one. "You see we put just so much clay
                        in and press this down and that makes the exact thickness. It can't
                        be more or less. I make a hundred and twenty plates an hour."
                    He made twenty while we looked on.
                    Another man, at the next window, was putting handles on cups.
                    After this there was nothing of interest to see, so we consulted the map and
                        decided that our best plan was to go first to Boonville in Warwick County,
                        the next county east; then northeast to Huntingberg and Jasper in Dubois  County, and then still northeast through
                        Kellerville and Norton into Orange County, and so reach French Lick and West
                        Baden.
                    Neither of us had ever been there. It was of some slight interest to me as
                        being famous—a great cure and the quondam resort of my brother Paul, who was
                        fond of places of this kind. Indeed, he was a kind of modern Falstaff,
                        roystering with drinkers and women and having a gay time of it wherever he
                        was—a vigorous animal soul, with a world of sentiment and a capacity for
                        living which was the admiration and the marvel of all beholders.
                    So we were off. In so far as this part of the trip was concerned, I can
                        truthfully say the attraction was off. There was still Bloomington, my one
                        year university town, but beside Warsaw and Terre Haute and Sullivan and
                        Evansville—how it paled! Chicago was really of much more interest to me, the
                        Chicago that I visited between Evansville and Warsaw, but this trip did not
                        include that. Besides, I had been to Chicago so often since.
                    We followed hot, wet bottom lands to Boonville, a poorer town even than
                        Sullivan, with unpaved streets and a skimpy county fair not to be compared
                        with the one of Knox County, in which Vincennes was situated. Then we struck
                        northeast through a region where the roads were so bad that it seemed we
                        should never come through with the car. Water puddles, and streams even,
                        blocked the way. At one place we shot over a bridge the far end of which
                        sank as we crossed, and a ditch of nine feet of depth yawned beside the
                        track, separated by but one foot of earth! Death seemed to zip close to my
                        ear at that moment. We saw poor homes, poor stores, wretched farms, shabby,
                        almost ragged people. At one town, Selvin, on the road to Huntingberg, a
                        pretty country girl "tending" the general store there
                        asked us if we were coming from Boonville, and when we said yes, asked if we
                        had seen the fair.
                    "Yes, replied Franklin.
                    "It's fine, isn't it?" she commented.
                    
                    "Yes," he replied gently.
                    You can imagine the isolation of this region when I tell you that our
                        automobile attracted universal attention; that we saw only one other between
                        Boonville and Hunt-ingberg; that dogs and horses ran away frightened at the
                        horn; and that children ran out to see. This did not seem quite
                        possible.
                    At Holland, however, in the southwest corner of Dubois County, we encountered
                        a splendid road, smooth and white, along which we tore. Indeed, this whole
                        county proved a revelation, for whereas the two preceding ones were poor,
                        wretched even, this was prosperous and delightful to look upon. Great
                        meadows of emerald were interspersed with splendid forests of ash and beech.
                        One saw sheep and Jersey and Holstein cattle in the fields, and for a
                        novelty, new for me in America, repeated flocks of snow white geese, great
                        droves of them,—a region, no doubt, given to feather raising.
                    Huntingberg was alive and clean—a truly handsome little town with well built
                        houses, wide streets, attractive stores, a brisk, businesslike atmosphere.
                        It was really charming, romantically so. Beyond it was an equally fine road
                        leading to Jasper, the county seat. On this we encountered a beech grove so
                        noble and well planned that it had the sanctity and aroma of a great
                        cathedral. Through the columns of trees one could see the sun sinking—a great
                        red ball of fire. The sky was sapphire and the air cool. Those lowings and
                        bleatings and callings and tinklings of evening were just beginning. We ran
                        the car into a fence pocket, and letting down the bars of a gate walked into
                        this great hall. I was deeply impressed—moved really. I put my arms behind my
                        back and gazed aloft into the silvery branches. I laid reverent hands on
                        their smooth, silvery trunks—and my cheek. I almost asked them to bless me—to
                        help me grow strong, natural, frank—all that a struggling mind in a mystic
                        world should become. I spoke to the red sun in the West and bade it adieu
                        for another night. I looked into the small still pools of water to be found
                        here, wherein stars 
                        
                            A CATHEDRAL OF TREES Jasper Indiana
                        
                         would see their faces latterly, and begged of
                        all wood sprites and water nymphs, nixies and pixies, that some day, soon
                        perhaps, they would make me one in their happy councils and revels. I looked
                        up through the trees to the sky, and told myself again, as I do each day,
                        that life is good, that in spite of contest and bitterness and defeated
                        hopes and lost ambitions and sickness and envy and hate and death—still,
                        still, there is this wondrous spectacle which, though it may have no part or
                        lot with us, or we with it, yet provides all we know of life. The sigh of
                        winds, the lap of waters, the call of birds—all color, fragrance, yearning,
                        hope, sweet memory—of what old mysteries are these compounded!
                    Jasper, the county seat, was another town of which I most heartily approved.
                        It was beautiful, like the rest of this striking county. The court house,
                        like most of those in this region and elsewhere, was new, but in this
                        instance built with considerable taste and individualitynot a slavish
                        copyand set in a square at the intersection of four wide streets on a slight
                        rise of ground, so that coming townward from any direction, and from a long
                        way off, one could see it commanding one of these striking approaches. What
                        a charming place in which to grow up, I thought!
                    Again, there was a river here, that selfsame Patoka of Princeton, and as we
                        entered from the south, it provided some most interesting views, sylvan and
                        delicate. Still once more there was a church hereSt. Joseph's Roman
                        Catholicwhich was a triumph of taste. Most Roman Catholic Churches, and for
                        that matter every other denominational church in America, have enough spent
                        on them to insure originality and charm in design, if only taste were not
                        wantingbut taste, that priceless, inexpensive thing, is rarely ever present.
                        They build and build, slavish copies of European models, usually of
                        cathedrals, so that when one sees an original design it is like a breath of
                        fresh air entering a stuffy room. This Church was built of a faintly
                        greenish gray stone, and possessed  a soaring,
                        yet delicate bell tower at one corner. It stood on a considerable rise, in
                        an open space and at right angles with a low flat brown convent or school,
                        which gave its entrance way a plaza-like atmosphere. But for the fact that
                        it was late and we were in a hurry, and it was locked, we would have
                        entered, but we would have had to go for a key.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LVIII
                    FRENCH LICK
                    AFTER passing through Jasper and Dubois Counties, where we
                        had seen more good automobiles, good roads and brisk life than we had since
                        the very best sections of northern Indiana and Ohio, our luck in roads left
                        off. Around the courthouse square at Jasper we had seen machines of the best
                        make, and parties of well to do people driving; but on our road to
                        Kellerville and Norton and French Lick we passed nothing but rumbling wagons
                        and some few, not very good, cars.
                    And now the landscape changed rapidly. I had always heard that Brown County,
                        east of Monroe (the seat of our state university), was the roughest and most
                        picturesque in the state, containing a hill, the highest in Indiana, of over
                        five hundred feet! As a student I had walked there with a geologizing party,
                        but if my memory served me correctly, it did not compare in picturesqueness
                        with the region through which we were now making our way. Heights and depths
                        are variable matters anyway, and the impression of something stupendous or
                        amazingly precipitous which one can get from a region of comparatively low
                        altitude depends on the arrangement of its miniature gorges and crevasses.
                        Here in Orange County I had an impression of great hills and deep ravines
                        and steep inclines which quite equalled anything we had seen. It suggested
                        the vicinity of Stroudsburg in Pennsylvania, and as we sped along there were
                        sudden drops down which we ground at breakneck speed, which quite took my
                        breath away. It was a true and beautiful mountain country, becabined,
                        lonely, for the most part bridgeless—and such roads! We bumped and jounced
                        and floundered along. Now and again we were at the  very bottom of a ravine, with lovely misty hills rising sheer
                        above us. Again, we were on some seeming mountain side, the valleys falling
                        sharply away from the road and showing some rocky rivulet at the bottom.
                        More than once we shot the machine through a tumbling, sparkling, moonlit
                        stream.
                    At the bottom of one ravine I saw a light, and we being very uncertain of our
                        way, I climbed out at the gate and went up under some vines and bushes to
                        knock at the door. Inside, since it was open, I beheld a quite metropolitan
                        interior—craftsman furniture, a wall of well-built shelves loaded with books,
                        a table strewn with magazines and papers, and the room lighted by a silk
                        shaded lamp. When I knocked a short, stocky, legal looking youth of most
                        precise manners and attire and a large pair of horn glasses on his-nose,
                        arose from a small secretary and came over.
                    "French Lick?" I inquired. "About eighteen
                        miles," he replied. "You are on the right road."
                        I felt quite reduced. I had expected to find a picturesque, ambling,
                        drawling mountaineer.
                    Between bounces and jounces and "holding back" against
                        declivities to which Bert seemed amazingly indifferent, I sat and dreamed
                        over those moonlit hills. What a possession for a state like Indiana, I
                        thought—a small, quaint, wonderful Alpine region within its very center. As
                        time went on and population increased, I thought, this would afford pleasure
                        and recreation to thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, who knows, who
                        could not afford to go farther. Plainly it had already evinced its charm to
                        the world, for were we not on the very outskirts of two of the most
                        remarkable curative spring resorts in America, if not in the world? Who had
                        not heard of French Lick—West Baden? And yet when I went to school at the
                        state university, these places had not been heard of locally, let alone
                        nationally.
                    I recall a long, lanky student from this very county who was studying law at
                        "our college," who told me of  French Lick, and that "a lot of people around there thought the
                        waters were good for rheumatism." I expected, somehow, as we rode
                        along, to see some evidence in the way of improved mountain conditions—better
                        houses, more of them, possibly—now that we were in the vicinity of such a
                        prosperous resort, but not a sign was there. Ten o'clock came and
                        then eleven. We were told that we were within nine miles, seven miles, four
                        miles, two miles—still no houses to speak of, and only the poorest type of
                        cabin. At one mile there was still no sign. Then suddenly, at the bend of a
                        road, came summer cottages of the customary resort type, a street of them.
                        Bright lamps appeared. A great wall of cream colored brick, ablaze with
                        lights, arose at the bottom of the ravine into which we were descending. I
                        was sure this was the principal hotel. Then as we approached gardens and
                        grounds most extensive and formal in character appeared, and in their
                        depths, to the left, through a faint pearly haze, appeared a much larger and
                        much more imposing structure. This was THE hotel. The other was an annex for
                        servants!
                    All the gaudy luxury of a Lausanne or Biarritz resort was here in evidence. A
                        railroad spur adjoining a private hotel station contained three or four
                        private cars, idling here while their owners rested. A darkened Pullman
                        train was evidently awaiting some particular hour to depart. At the foot of
                        a long iron and glass awning, protecting a yellow marble staircase of
                        exceedingly florate design, a liveried flunky stood waiting to open
                        automobile doors. As we sped up he greeted us. Various black porters pounced
                        on our bags like vultures. We were escorted through a marble lobby such as
                        Arabian romances once dreamed of as rare, and to an altar like desk, where a
                        high priest of American profit deigned to permit us to register. We were
                        assigned rooms (separate quarters for our chauffeur) at six dollars the day,
                        and subsequently ushered down two miles of hall on the fifth or sixth floor
                        to our very plain, very white, but tastefully furnished  rooms, where we were permitted to pay the various slaves who
                        had attended us.
                    "George," I said to the robustious soul who carried my bag,
                        "how many rooms has this hotel?" "Eight hundred,
                        suh, Ah believe." "And how many miles is it from here to
                        the diningroom?" "We don't serve no meals aftah
                        nine o'clock, suh, but Ah expects if you wanted a lil'
                        sumfin sent up to yo room, de chef would see you done got it."
                    "No, George, I'm afraid of these chefs. I think
                        I'll go out instead. Isn't there a restaurant around here
                        somewhere?" "Nothin' as you-all'd like
                        to patronize, suh, no suh. Dey is one restaurant. It keeps open most all
                        night. It's right outside de grounds here. I think you might get a
                        lil' sumfin dayah. Dey has a kinda pie countah."
                        "That's it, George," I replied.
                        "That's me. A plain, humble pie counter. And now good
                        night to you, George." "Good night, suh." And he
                        went out grinning.
                    I may seem to be exaggerating, but I say it in all seriousness. These
                        enormous American watering place hotels, with their armies of servants,
                        heavy, serious-faced guests, solemn state diningrooms, miles of halls and
                        the like, more or less frighten me. They are so enormous. Their guests are
                        so stiff, starchy, captain-of-industry-like. And they are so often (not
                        always) accompanied by such pursy, fussy, heavily bejeweled or besilked and
                        velveted females, whose very presence seems to exude a kind of opposition to
                        or contempt for simple things, which puts me on tenter hooks. I
                        don't seem quite to belong. I may have the necessary money to pay
                        for all and sundry services such as great hostelries provide—for a period
                        anyhow—but even so, I still feel small. I look about me furtively and suspect
                        every man I see of being at least a millionaire. I feel as though I were
                        entirely surrounded by judges, merchant princes, eminent doctors, lawyers,
                            
                        
                            FRENCH LICK The Hotel and Fresh Water Spring
                        
                         priests, senators and presidents, and that if
                        I dare say a word, some one might cry—"That man! Who is he, anyhow?
                        Put him out." And so, as I say, I "kinda-sorta"
                        slip along and never make any more noise or fuss or show than I have to. If
                        a head waiter doesn't put me in exactly the place I would like to
                        be, or the room clerk doesn't give me just the room I would like, I
                        always say, "Ah, well, I'm just a writer, and perhaps
                        I'd better not say anything. They might put me out. Bishops and
                        doctors and lawyers ought to have all the center tables or window seats, and
                        so—" It's really uncomfortable to be so humble—just nothing
                        at all.
                    But notwithstanding this rather tragic state, my room was a good one, and the
                        windows, once opened to the moonlight, commanded a fine view of the grounds,
                        with the walks, spring pavilions and artificial grottoes and flower beds all
                        picked out clearly by the pale, ethereal light. The restaurant over the way
                        was all that George said it was and more—very bad. The whole town seemed to
                        be comprised of this one great hotel and an enormous annex for servants and
                        chauffeurs, and then a few tatterdemalion resorts and the town cottages. The
                        springs in the grounds were four or five in number, all handsomely hooded
                        with Moorish pavilions. In each case these latter were floored with colored
                        marbles, and you went down steps into them, carrying your own glass and
                        drinking all of the peculiar tasting fluid you could endure. Resident
                        physicians prescribe treatments or methods, for a price. The very wealthy
                        visitors or patients often bring their own physicians, who resent, no doubt,
                        all local medical advice. The victims, or lovers of leisure, idle about
                        these far-flung grounds, enjoying the walks, the smooth grass, the views,
                        the golf links and the tennis courts. The hours for meals are the principal
                        hours—and dinner from seven to nine is an event—a dress affair. The grand
                        parade to the diningroom seems to begin at six fortyfive or six fifty. At
                        that time you can sit in the long hall leading  to that very essential chamber and see the personages go by.
                    For this occasion, at breakfast the next morning and luncheon, which here is
                        a kind of an affair of state, Franklin and I did well enough. We were given
                        tables with a pleasant view, walked over the grounds, drank at all the
                        springs, bought picture postcards, and after idling and getting thoroughly
                        refreshed, decided to be on our way. West Baden, as it proved, was directly
                        on our route out of town, not more than three quarters of a mile off; and to
                        this we repaired, also, merely to see.
                    If anything, it was more assuming in its appearance than French Lick. The
                        principal hotel, an enormous one of cream brick and white stone, with a low,
                        flat, red oval dome, Byzantine or Moroccan in spirit, was almost of the size
                        and the general appearance of the Trocadero in Paris. As in the case of the
                        hotel at French Lick, the grounds were very extensive and gardened to within
                        an inch of their life. Pagodas and smart kiosks indicated the springs. A
                        great wide circular driveway admitted to the entrance of the principal
                        hotel. Banked and parked with stone, there was a stream here which ran
                        through the principal grounds, and there were other hotels by no means
                        humble in their appearance.
                    Satisfied at having at least seen these twin resorts, I was content to make
                        short work of the rest of the journey. At Paoli (what a rural sounding
                        midwestern name), the county seat of this poor and rather backwoods county,
                        we found a courthouse so small and countrified that we could not resist the
                        desire to pause and observe it—it was so nondescript—a cross between a Greek
                        temple and a country school. The Greek temple was surmounted by a small,
                        somewhat German looking belfry. About it, on all sides, ran the old time
                        hitching rail for wagons, an unpretentious note which indicated the
                        nonarrival of the automobile. To it were fastened a collection of
                        nondescript wagons, buggies, and buckboards, intermingled with three or four
                        small automobiles. I got out and walked through it only to see the county
                        treasurer, or someone in  his office, sawing
                        away on a fiddle. The music was not exactly entrancing, but jolly. Outside
                        stood a rather gaunt and malarial looking farmer in the poorest of crinkly
                        jeans, threadbare and worn at the elbows. "Tell me," I
                        said. "I see on the map here a place called Lost River. Is there a
                        river here and does it disappear underground?"
                    "That's just what it does, mister," he replied
                        most courteously, "but thar ain't nothin' to see.
                        The water just sorta peters out as it goes along. You can't see
                        nothin' but just dry stones. I don't know exactly where it
                        does come up again. Out here Orangeville way, I think. There are a lot of
                        underground caves around here."
                    We went on, but on discovering a splendid stretch of road and speeding on it,
                        we forgot all about Lost River.
                    Throughout this and the next county north, the roads seemed to attain a
                        maximum of perfection, possibly due to the amazing quarries at Bedford,
                        beyond. We traveled so fast that we ran down a hen and left it fluttering in
                        the road, a sight which gave me the creeps and started a new train of
                        speculation. I predicted then, to myself privately, that having run down one
                        thing we would run down another before the trip was over, for, as I said
                        before, this is the sort of thing that is always happening to me—what
                        Nietzsche would call my typical experience. If I should stop at one
                        pretentious hotel like the Kittatinny, on a trip like this, I would be sure
                        to stop at another, like French Lick, before I was through, or if I lost a
                        valuable ring on Monday, I would be sure to lose a valuable pin on Thursday
                        or thereabouts. Life goes on in pairs for me. My one fear in connection with
                        this chicken incident was that the loss might prove something much more
                        valuable than a chicken, and the thought of death by accident, to others
                        than myself, always terrifies me.
                    Through the region that suggested the beauty and sweep of western New York,
                        we now sped into Bedford City, a city that seemed to have devoted hundreds
                        of thousands of dollars to churches. I never saw so many  large and even quite remarkable churches in
                        so small a town. It only had twelve thousand population, yet the churches
                        looked as though they might minister to thirty thousand.
                    Just at the edge of this town, north, we came to quarries, the extent and
                        impressiveness of which seemed to me a matter of the greatest import.
                        Carrara, in Italy, is really nothing compared with this. There some of the
                        pure white stone is mined—cut from tunnels in the sides of the hills. Here
                        the quarries are all open to the sky and reaching for miles, apparently, on
                        every hand. Our road lay along a high ridge which divided two immense fields
                        of stone, and sitting in our car we could see derricks and hear electrically
                        driven stone drills on every hand for miles. There were sheer walls of
                        stone, thirty, forty, and as it seemed to me, even fifty feet high, cut true
                        to plummet, and which revealed veins of unquarried stone suggesting almost
                        untold wealth. At the bottom of these walls were pools of dull green water,
                        the color of a smoky emerald, and looking like a precious stone. In the
                        distance, on every hand, were hills of discarded stone, or at least stone
                        for which there was no present use. I fancy they were veined or broken or
                        slightly defective blocks which are of no great value now, but which a more
                        frugal generation may discover how to use. In every direction were car
                        tracks, spurs, with flat cars loaded or waiting to be loaded with these
                        handsome blocks. As we went north from here, following a line of railroad
                        that led to Bloomington, Indiana, the ways seemed to be lined with freight
                        trains hauling this stone. We must have passed a dozen such in our rapid run
                        to Bloomington.
                    In approaching this town my mind was busy with another group of
                        reminiscences. As I thought back over them now, it seemed to me that I must
                        have been a most unsatisfactory youth to contemplate at this time, one who
                        lacked nearly all of the firm, self-directive qualities which most youths of
                        my age at that time were supposed to have. I was eighteen then, and all
                        romance and moonshine.  I had come down from
                        Chicago after these several years at Warsaw and two in Chicago, in which I
                        had been trying to connect commercially with life, and as I may say now, I
                        feel myself to have been a rather poor specimen. I had no money other than
                        about three hundred dollars loaned to me, or rather forced upon me, by an
                        ex-teacher of mine (one who had conducted the recitation room in the high
                        school at Warsaw) who, finding me working for a large wholesale hardware
                        company in Chicago, insisted that I should leave and come here to be
                        educated.
                    "You may never learn anything directly there, Theodore,"
                        she counseled, "but something will come to you indirectly. You will
                        see what education means, what its aim is, and that will be worth a great
                        deal. Just go one year, at least, and then you can decide for yourself what
                        you want to do after that."
                    She was an old maid, with a set of false upper teeth, and a heavenly,
                        irradiating smile. She had led a very hard life herself, and did not wish me
                        to. She was possessed of a wondrously delicate perception of romance, and
                        was of so good a heart that I can scarcely ever think of her without a
                        tendency to rhapsodize. She was not beautiful, and yet she was not
                        unattractive either. Four years later, having eventually married, she died
                        in childbirth. At this time, for some reason not clear to myself, she
                        yearned over me in a tender, delicate, motherly way. I have never forgotten
                        the look in her eyes when she found me in the wholesale hardware house (they
                        called me down to the office and I came in my overalls), nor how she said,
                        smiling a delicate, whimsical, emotional smile:
                    "Theodore, work of this kind isn't meant for you, really.
                        It will injure your spirit. I want you to let me help you go to school
                        again."
                    I cannot go into the romance of this—it is too long a story. I forget, really,
                        whether I protested much or not. My lungs and stomach were troubling me
                        greatly and I was coughing and agonizing with dyspepsia nearly all the  while. After some conferences and
                        arrangements made with my mother, I came—and for an entire college year
                        dreamed and wondered.
                    I know now for a fact that I never learned, all the time I was there, quite
                        what it was all about. I heard much talk of -ologies and -tries and -isms
                        without quite grasping the fundamental fact that they were really dealing
                        with plain, ordinary, everyday life—the forces about us. Somehow I had the
                        vague uncertain notion that they did not concern ordinary life at all. I
                        remember one brisk youth telling me that in addition to law, which he was
                        studying, he was taking up politics, taxation, economics, and the like, as
                        aids. I wondered of what possible use those things could be to him, and how
                        much superior his mind must be to mine, since he could grasp them and I, no
                        doubt, could not.
                    Again, the professors there were such a wondrous company to me, quite
                        marvelous. They were such an outr company, your heavy-domed, owl-like
                        wiseacres, who see in books and the storing up of human knowledge in books
                        the sum and substance of life's significance. As I look back on
                        them now I marvel at my awe of them then, and at that time I was not very
                        much awestricken either—rather nonplussed.
                    Suffice it to say that the one thing that I really wanted to see in
                        connection with this college was a ground floor parlor I had occupied in an
                        old, rusty, vine-covered house, which stood in the center of a pleasing
                        village lawn and had for a neighbor a small, one-story frame, where dwelt a
                        hoyden of a girl who made it her business to bait me the first semester I
                        was there. This room I had occupied with a law student by the name of
                        William or Bill Wad-hams, center rush and almost guiding spirit of the whole
                        college football team, and-afterwards county treasurer of and state senator
                        from an adjacent Indiana county. He was a romping, stamping, vigorous,
                        black-haired, white-faced pagan, who cursed and drank a little and played
                        cards and flirted with the girls. He could be so mild and so engaging that
                        when I first saw him I liked him  immensely,
                        and what was much more curious he seemed to take a fancy to me. We made an
                        agreement as to expenditures and occupying the same room. It did not seem in
                        the least odd to me, at that time, that he should occupy the same bed with
                        me. I had always been sleeping with one or the other of my brothers. It was
                        more odd that, although he at once surrounded himself with the
                        crême-de-la-crême of the college football world, who made of our humble
                        chamber a conference and card room, I got along well enough with them all to
                        endure it, and even made friends out of some of them. They were charming—so
                        robust and boisterous and contentious and yet genial.
                    Through his personality or my own—I can never quite make out which—I was drawn
                        into a veritable maelstrom of college life. I had no least idea what I
                        wanted to study, but because I had been deficient in certain things in high
                        school, I took up those,—first-year Latin, geometry, English literature,
                        history and Old English. How I ever got along I do not know. I think I
                        failed in most things because I never mastered grammar or mathematics.
                        However, I staggered on, worrying considerably and feeling that my life, and
                        indeed my character, was a failure. Between whiles, I found time and the
                        mood for associating with and enjoying all sorts of odd personalities—youth
                        of the most diverse temperaments and ambitions, who seemed to find in me
                        something which they liked,—a Michigan law student, an Indiana
                        minister's son, a boy who was soon to be heir to a large fortune
                        and so on and so on. I was actually popular with some, after a fashion, and
                        if I had known how to make use of my abilities in this line—had I really
                        craved friendship and connections—I might have built up some enduring
                        relationships which would have stood me in good stead, commercially and
                        socially, later. As it was, my year ended, I left college, dropping all but
                        half a dozen youths from my list of even occasional correspondents, and
                        finally losing track of all of them, finding in different scenes and
                        interests all that I seemed to require in the way of mental and social
                        diversion.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LIX
                    A COLLEGE TOWN
                    BLOOMINGTON, as we sped into it, did not seem much changed
                        from the last time I had laid eyes upon it, twentyfive years before, only
                        now, having seen the more picturesque country to the south of it, I did not
                        think the region in which it lay seemed as broken and diversified as it did
                        the year I first came to it. Then I had seen only the more or less level
                        regions of northern and southern Indiana and the territory about Chicago,
                        and so Bloomington had seemed quite remarkable, physically. Now it seemed
                        more or less tame, and in addition, it had grown so in size and
                        architectural pretentiousness as to have obliterated most of that rural
                        inadequacy and backwoods charm which had been its most delightful
                        characteristic to me in 1889.
                    Then it was so poor and so very simple. The court house square had been a gem
                        of moss-back simplicity and poverty, more attractive even, rurally speaking,
                        than that court house I just mentioned as being the charm of Paoli. Here,
                        also, the hitching rail had extended all around the square. I saw more
                        tumble-down wagons, rheumatic and broken-down men, old, brown, almost moss
                        covered coats and thin, bony, spavined horses in the Bloomington of 1889
                        than I ever saw anywhere before or since. In addition to this, in spite of
                        the smallness of the college, many of the six hundred students had
                        considerable money, for Indiana was a prosperous state and these youths and
                        girls were very well provided for. Secret or Greek letter societies and
                        college social circles of different degrees of import abounded. There were
                        college rakes and college loafers and college swells. At that time the
                        university chanced to have a faculty which, because of force and  brains, was attracting considerable
                        attention. David Starr Jordan, afterwards President of Leland Stanford, was
                        president here. William Gifford Swain, afterwards President of Swarthmore,
                        was professor of mathematics. Rufus L. Green, a man who made considerable
                        stir in mathematics and astronomy in later years, was associate in the chair
                        of mathematics. Jeremiah Jenks, a man who figured conspicuously in American
                        sociological and political discussion in after life and added considerable
                        luster to the fame of Cornell, was occupying the chair of sociology and
                        political economy. Edward Howard Griggs, a man who has carried culture, with
                        a large C, into all the women's clubs and intellectual movements of
                        one kind and another from ocean to ocean, was occupying an assistant
                        professorship in literature. There was Von Holst, called to the chair of
                        history at the University of Chicago, and so on—a quite interesting and
                        scintillating galaxy of educative minds.
                    The student body, of which I was such an unsatisfactory unit, seemed quite
                        well aware of the character and import of the men above them, educationally.
                        There was constant and great talk concerning the relative merits of each and
                        every one. As Miss Fielding, my sponsor and mentor, had predicted, I learned
                        more concerning the seeming import of education, the branches of knowledge
                        and the avenues and vocations open to men and women in the intellectual
                        world than I had ever dreamed existed—and just from hearing the students
                        argue, apotheosize, anathematize, or apostrophize one course or one
                        professor or another. Here I met my first true radicals—young men who
                        disagreed vigorously and at every point with the social scheme and dogma as
                        they found it. Here I found the smug conventionalists and grinds seeking
                        only to carve out the details of a profession and subsequently make a
                        living. Here I found the flirt, the college widow, and the youth with purely
                        socializing tendencies, who found in college life a means of gratifying an
                        intense and almost chronic desire for dancing, dressing, spooning, living in
                        a world of social airs and dreams.  There
                        were, oddly enough, hard and chronic religionists even among the incoming
                        class, who were bent upon preaching "the kingdom of God is at
                        hand" to all the world. They seemed a little late to me, even at
                        that day and date, though I was still not quite sure myself.
                    Catholicism had almost made heaven and hell a reality to me. And here were
                        attractive and intellectual women—the first I had ever seen, really—who in
                        those parliamentary and social discussions incidental to student class and
                        social life as represented by professorial entertainments and receptions,
                        could rise and discuss intelligently subjects which were still more or less
                        nebulous to me. They gave me my first inkling of the third sex. Indeed, it
                        was all so interesting, so new, so fascinating, that I was set agape and
                        remained so until the college year was over.
                    I regained my health, which I had thought all but lost, and in addition began
                        to realize that perhaps there were certain things I might intelligently
                        investigate over a period of years, with profit to myself. I began to see
                        that however unsuited certain forms of intellectual
                        training and certain professions might be to me, they offered distinct and
                        worthy means of employment to others. Though I had been aroused at first,
                        now I began to be troubled and unhappy. I felt distinctly that I had wasted
                        a year, or worse yet, had not been sufficiently well equipped mentally to
                        make the most of it. I began to be troubled over my future, and while I was
                        not willing to accept my sponsor's kind offer and return the
                        following year (I realized now that without some basic training it would do
                        me no good), still, I was not willing to admit to myself that I was
                        intellectually hopeless. There must be some avenue of approach to the
                        intellectual life for me, too, I said to myself,—only how find it? I finally
                        left unhappy, distrait, scarcely knowing which way to turn, but resolved to
                        be something above a mere cog in a commercial machine. This proved, really,
                        one of the most vitalizing years of my life.
                    During my stay here, what novel sensations did I not experience! It was all
                        so different from the commercial  life from
                        which I had been extricated in Chicago. There I had been rising at five
                        thirty, eating an almost impossible breakfast (often the condition of my
                        stomach would not permit me to eat at all), taking a slow, long distance
                        horse car to the business heart, working from seven to six with an hour for
                        lunch, in a crowded, foreman bossed loft, and then taking the car home again
                        to eat, and because I was always very tired, to go to bed almost atonce.
                        Only Saturday afternoons in summer (the Saturday half holiday idea was then
                        becoming known in America) and Sunday in winter offered sufficient time for
                        me to recuperate and see a little of the world to make life somewhat
                        endurable for me,—a situation which I greatly resented. It was most
                        exasperating.
                    In college all that was changed. From the smoky, noisy city, I was
                        transported once more to the really peaceful country, where all was green
                        and sweer, and where owing to the peculiarly equable climate of this region,
                        flowers bloomed until late December. The college curriculum necessitated my
                        presence in class only from nine until twelve thirty or so. After that I was
                        free to study or do as I chose. Outside my window in this lovely old house
                        where I had a room were flowers and vines and a grape arbor heavy with blue
                        grapes, and a stretch of grass that was like balm to my soul. The college
                        campus, while it contained but a few humble and unattractive buildings, was
                        so strewn with great trees and threaded through one corner of it (where I
                        entered by a stile) with a crystal clear brook, that I was entranced. Many a
                        morning on my way to class or at noon on my way out, I have thrown myself
                        down by the side of this stream, stretched out my arms and rested, thinking
                        of the difference between my state here and in Chicago. There I was so
                        unhappy in the thing that f was doing. The Irish superintendent who was over
                        my floor despised me—very rightly so, perhaps,—and was at no pains to conceal
                        it, threatening always to see that I was discharged at the end of the year.
                        Our home life was now not so unplertsant, 
                        only I found no time to enjoy it; my work was too arduous.
                    Here were no pots and kettles to pile in bins, no endless loads of tinware
                        and woodenware to unpack out of straw or crates and store away, only to get
                        them out again on orders. There I felt myself a pointless, unimportant
                        bondslave. Here I was a free, intellectual agent, to come or go as I chose.
                        I could even attend classes or not as I chose. Study was something I must do
                        for myself or not. There was no one present to urge me on. Various youths,
                        as I have said, at once gathered about me. Prospective lawyers, doctors,
                        politicians, preachers, educators in embryo, walked by my side or sat by me
                        at the club boarding table, or dropped in between four and six of an
                        afternoon, or walked with me in the country, or played cards on Saturday
                        afternon or Sunday, or proposed an evening at church or at a debating
                        society to discuss philosophy or read, or even a call upon a girl. I was not
                        very well equipped materially, but neither was I absolutely unpresentable,
                        and aside from the various Greek letter and social fraternities, it did not
                        make so much difference. I was never actually tapped for membership in one
                        of these latter, and yet I was told afterwards that two different
                        fraternities had been seriously divided over the question of my
                        eligibility—another typical experience of mine. But I went out a great deal
                        nevertheless, dreamed much, idled, rested; and if at the end of the year I
                        was mentally disgruntled and unhappy, physically I was very much improved.
                        There can be no question of that. And my outlook and ambitions were
                        better.
                    It was during this winter that I experienced several of those early, and
                        because I was young and very impressionable, somewhat memorable love affairs
                        which, however sharp the impression they made at the time, came to nothing.
                        Owing to a very retiring and nervous disposition I could never keep my
                        countenance or find my tongue in the presence of the fair. If a girl was
                        pretty  and in the least coquettish or self
                        conscious, I was at once stricken as if with the palsy, or left rigid and
                        played over by chills and fever.
                    Adjoining this house, in the cottage previously mentioned, was a young, tow
                        headed hoyden, who no sooner saw that I was in this house as a guest, than
                        she plotted my discomfiture and unrest.
                    It was my custom, because there was a space between two windows outside of
                        which were flowers, to study in the east side of my room, looking out on the
                        lawn. In the cottage adjoining were several windows through which, on divers
                        occasions during the first and second week, I saw a girl looking at me, at
                        first closing the shutters when she saw me looking; but later, finding me
                        bashful, no doubt, and inclined to keep my eyes on my books, leaving them
                        open and even singing or laughing in a ringing, disturbing way. On several
                        occasions when our eyes met, she half smiled, or seemed to, but I was too
                        terrified by the thought of a possible encounter on the strength of this to
                        be able to continue my gaze, or to do what would seem the logical thing to
                        most, to speak, or nod, or smile. Nevertheless, in spite of my inability to
                        meet her overtures in the spirit in which they were made, she was apparently
                        not discouraged. She continued to half smile—to give me the shaking
                        realization that some day soon I might have to talk to her whether I would
                        or not—and then where would I find words?
                    One afternoon, as I was brooding over my Latin, attempting to unravel the
                        mysteries of conjugations and modifications, I saw her come out of her back
                        door and run across the lawn to the kitchen of the old widow lady who kept
                        this house. I was not at all disturbed by this, only interested, and keenly
                        so, even jealous of the pleasure the old lady was to have in the
                        girl's company. She was exceedingly pretty, and by now there were
                        other male students in the house, though not on my floor. I thought of her
                        graceful body and bright hair and pink cheeks, when suddenly there was a
                        knock at my door, and opening it I encountered the feeble old lady who kept
                        the place,  very nervous and bashful herself,
                        but smiling amusedly in a sly, senile way.
                    "The young lady next door wants to know if you won't help
                        her with her Latin. There's something she can't quite
                        understand," she said weakly.
                    Actually my blood ran cold. My hair writhed and rose, then wilted. I felt
                        shooting pains in my arms and knees.
                    "Why certainly," I managed to articulate, not knowing
                        anything about Latin grammar, but being dizzard enough to imagine that any
                        educational information was required on this occasion.
                    I followed into the old fashioned diningroom, with its table covered with a
                        red cotton cloth, and there was the girl simpering and mock-shy, looking
                        down after one appealing glance at me, and wanting to know if I
                        wouldn't please show her how to translate this sentence!
                    We sat down in adjoining chairs. It was well, for my knees were rapidly
                        giving way. I was dunce enough to look at her book instead of her, but at
                        that her head came so close that her hair brushed my cheek. My tongue by
                        then was swollen to nine times its normal proportions. Nevertheless I
                        managed to say something—God only knows what. My hands were shaking like
                        leaves. She could not have failed to notice. Possibly she took pity on me,
                        for she looked at me coyly, laughed off her alleged need, inquired if I was
                        taking Latin, and wanted to know if I wasn't from Fort Wayne,
                        Indiana. She knew a boy who had been here the year before who looked like
                        me, and he was from Fort Wayne.
                    With all these aids I could do nothing. I couldn't talk. I
                        couldn't think of a single blessed thing to say. It never occurred
                        to me to tease her, or to tell her how pretty she looked, or frankly to
                        confess that I knew nothing of Latin but that I liked her, and to jest with
                        her about love and boys. That was years beyond me. I was actually so
                        helpless that in pity, or disgust, she finally exclaimed, "Oh,
                        well, I think I can get along now. I'm so  much obliged to you"—and then jumped up and ran
                        away.
                    I went back to my room to hide my head and to bemoan my cowardice and think
                        over the things I should have said and done and the things I would do
                        tomorrow or the next time I met her. But there never was any next time. She
                        never troubled to look so teasingly out of her window. Thereafter when she
                        passed the house she ran and seemed absorbed in something else. If,
                        unavoidably, our eyes met, she nodded, but only in a neighborly way. And
                        then in a few days, the aforesaid William Wadhams appeared upon the scene,
                        gallant roysterer that he was, and made short work of her. One glance and
                        there was a smile, a wave of the hand. The next afternoon he was leaning
                        over her fence talking in the most gallant fashion. There was a gay chase a
                        day or two later, in and out of bushes and around trees, in an attempt to
                        kiss her, but she got away, leaving a slipper behind her which he captured
                        and kept while he argued with her through her window. Later on there were
                        other meetings. She went on a drive with him somewhere one Sunday afternoon.
                        In my chagrined presence he discanted on having kissed her, and on what a
                        peach she was. It was a pathetic, discouraging situation for me, but the
                        race is to the swift, the battle to the strong, and so I told myself at the
                        time. I really did not resent his victory. I liked him too much. But I
                        developed a kind of horror of my own cowardice, a contempt for my ineptness,
                        which in later years, year by year, finally built up a kind of courage.
                    There was another girl, fifteen or sixteen, across the street from me, the
                        daughter of a doctor, living in a low, graceful, romantic cottage, fronted
                        by trees and flowers. She inspired me with an entirely different kind of
                        passion. The first was heavily admixed with desire—the girl who approached me
                        inspired it. In the second case it was wholly sexless, something which
                        sprang like a white flame at the sight of a delicate, romantic face, and
                        while it tortured me for years, never went beyond  the utmost outposts of romance. Although later I often fell in
                        love with others, still I could never quite get her out of my mind. And
                        though she colored this whole year for me, desperately, I never even spoke
                        to her.
                    I first saw her coming home from school, a slim, delicate, tenuous type, her
                        black hair smoothed back from her brow, her thin, slender white hands
                        holding a few books, a long cape or mackintosh hung loosely about her
                        shoulders, and—I adored her at sight. The fictional representations of
                        Dante's Beatrice are the only ones that have ever represented her
                        to me. I looked after her day after day until finally she noticed me. Once
                        she paused as she went into her home, her books under her arm, and picking a
                        flower stood and held it to her face, glancing only once in my direction.
                        Then she danced lightly up her steps and disappeared. At other times, as she
                        would pass, she would glance at me furtively, and then seem to hurry on. She
                        seemed terrorized by my admiration. I did my best to screw up my courage to
                        the point of being able to address her, and yet I never did. There were so
                        many opportunities, too! Daily she went to the post office or down town for
                        something or other, nearly every afternoon she came home along the same
                        street, and most often alone. With some girls, or her sister, who was
                        learning to play the violin, she went to church of a Wednesday and Sunday
                        evening. I followed her and attended that church—or waited outside. Once in
                        January, right after the Christmas holidays, there was a heavy snow fall and
                        we had sleighing on this very street. She came out with her sled one
                        Saturday morning and looked over at me where I was sitting by my window,
                        studying. I wanted to go forth and speak to her on this hill—there were so
                        few there—but I was afraid. And she sledded alone!
                    Then as the year drifted toward spring, I wrote her a note. I composed
                        fifteen before I wrote this one, asking her if she would not come down to
                        the campus stile after she had put her books away—that I wanted to talk with
                        her. It was a foolish note, quite an impossible  proposition for a girl of her years—frightening. All I had to say I could
                        have said, falling in step with her at some point, and beginning a friendly,
                        innocent conversation. But I was too wrought up and too cowardly to be able
                        to do the natural thing.
                    After days of preliminary meditation I finally met her in her accustomed
                        path, and handed her the paper. She took it with a frightened, averted
                        glance—there was a look of actual fear in her eyes—and hurried on. I went to
                        the stile, but she did not come. I saw her afterward, but she turned away,
                        not in opposition, I could see that, but in fright. That night I saw her
                        come to the window and look over at my window, but when she saw me looking
                        she quickly drew the blind. Thereafter she would look regularly, and one
                        evening, after putting away her books, I saw her walk down to the stile, but
                        now I was too frightened to follow. And so it went until the end of the
                        second semester, when, because of room changes and most of the crowd I was
                        familiar with moving to the district immediately south of the college, I
                        felt obliged to move also. Besides, by now I had given up in despair. I felt
                        that she must feel and see that I was without vitality—and as for my opinion
                        of myself, it is beyond description.
                    I left, but often of an evening in the spring I used to come and look at her
                        windows, the lighted lamp inside communicating a pale luster to them. I was
                        miserably, painfully unhappy and sad. But I never spoke. The very last day
                        of my stay but one, in the evening, I went again—just to see.
                    What better tribute could I pay to beauty in youth!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LX
                    "BOOSTER DAY" AND A MEMORY
                    ENTERING Bloomington this afternoon, the memories of all
                        my old aches and pains were exceedingly dim. We say to ourselves at many
                        particular times, "I will never forget this," or,
                        "The pain of this will endure forever," but, alas! even
                        our most treasured pains and sufferings escape us. We are compelled to admit
                        that the memory of that which rankled so is very dim. Marsh fires, all of
                        us. We are made to glow by the heat and radiance of certain days, but we
                        fade—and we vanish.
                    Nevertheless, entering Bloomington now it had some charm, only as I thought
                        the whole thing over the memory of my various sex failures still rankled.
                        "I was not really happy here," I told myself. "I
                        was in too transient and inadequate a mood." And perhaps that was
                        true. At any rate, I wanted to see this one principal room I have previously
                        mentioned, and the college and the court house, and feel the general
                        atmosphere of the place.
                    As a whole, the town was greatly changed, but not enough to make it utterly
                        different. One could still see the old town in the new. For although the
                        old, ramshackle, picturesque attractive court house had been substituted by
                        a much larger and more imposing building of red brick and white stone—a not
                        uninteresting design—still a number of the buildings which had formerly
                        surrounded it were here. The former small and by no means cleanly post
                        office, with its dingy paper and knife marked writing shelf on one side, had
                        been replaced by a handsome government building suitable for a town of
                        thirty or forty thousand. A new city hall, a thing unthought of in my day,
                        was being erected in a street just south of the square. New bank buildings,
                        drygoods  stores, drug store, restaurants,
                        were all in evidence. In my time there had been but two restaurants, both
                        small, and one almost impossible. Now there were four or five quite
                        respectable ones, and one of considerable pretensions. In addition, down the
                        Main Street could be seen the college, or university, a striking group of
                        buildings entirely different from those I had known. A picture postcard,
                        referring to one of the buildings, spoke of five thousand population for the
                        city, and a four thousand attendance for the University.
                    Feeling that too much had disappeared to make our stop of any particular
                        import, still I was eager to see what had become of the old rooming house,
                        and whether the little cottage next door and the home of Beatrice over the
                        way were still in existence. Under my guidance we turned at the exact
                        corner, and stopped the car at the curb. I was by no means uncertain, for on
                        the corner diagonal from my old room was a quondam student's
                        rooming house too obviously the same to be mistaken. But where was the one
                        in which I had lived? Apparently it was gone. There was an old house on the
                        corner looking somewhat like it, and the second from it on the same side was
                        evidently the small house in which Miss T— had lived; and over the way—yes,
                        save for another house crowded in beside it, that was the same too. Only in
                        the case of this house on the corner . . .
                    All at once it came to me. I could see what had been done.
                    "Willie," I said, to a boy who was playing marbles with two
                        other boys, right in front of us, "how long has this second house
                        been here—this one next to the corner?"
                    "I don't know. I've only been here since Booster
                        Day."
                    "Booster Day?" I queried, suddenly and entirely diverted by
                        this curious comment. "What in the world is Booster
                        Day?"
                    "Booster Day!" He stared incredulously, as though  he had not quite heard. "Aw, gwann,
                        you know what Booster Day is."
                    "I give you my solemn word," I replied, very seriously.
                        "I don't. I never heard of it before. Believe it or not—I
                        never did. I don't live anywhere around here, you
                        know."
                    "Hey, Tozer," he called to another boy who was up in a tree
                        in front of the house, and who up to this moment had been keeping another
                        youth from coming near by striking at him with a stick,
                        "here's a feller says he never heard of Booster Day. Aw,
                        haw!"
                    "It's the truth," I persisted.
                        "I'm perfectly serious. You think I'm teasing
                        you, but I'm not. I never heard of it."
                    "Where dya live then?" he asked.
                    "New York," I replied.
                    "City?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Didya come out here in that car?"
                    "Yes."
                    "And they ain't got a Booster Day in New
                        York?"
                    "I never heard of one before."
                    "Well, we have one here."
                    "Well, when does it come, then?" I asked, hoping to get at
                        it in that way.
                    "In summer time," he replied, smiling, "now—about
                        August."
                    "No, it don't," commented the boy in the tree.
                        "It comes in the spring. I know because we were still in school yet
                        last year, and they let us out that day."
                    "Well, what month was it in then?" I went on.
                        "April, May, June?"
                    "May, I think," said the boy in the tree. "I know
                        we were still in school anyhow."
                    "Well, what do they do on Booster Day?" I inquired of the
                        boy on the ground. "What do you do?"
                    "Well," he said, kicking the bricks with his toes,
                        "they, now, send up balloons and shoot off firecrackers and have
                             a parade, and someone goes up in a flying
                        machine, at least he did last year."
                    "Yes, what for, though?" I inquired.
                    "Because it's Booster Day," he insisted.
                    "But don't you see that isn't an answer?"
                        I pleaded. "I want to know what Booster Day is for—why they have it,
                        why they send up balloons and call it Booster Day. They didn't have
                        a Booster Day when I lived out here."
                    "I know," called the boy in the tree gallantly. He had
                        evidently been turning this problem over in his own mind, and now came to
                        the other's rescue. "It's the day all the stores
                        advertise to get people to come into town. It's to boost the
                        town."
                    "Well, now, that sounds reasonable," I commented.
                        "And does it come on the same day every year?"
                    "I don't know. I think so."
                    "Well, how long have you been here?"
                    "I was born here."
                    "And have you always had a Booster Day?"
                    "Yes, sir."
                    "Well now, there you have it," I said to the first boy.
                        "Booster Day is the day you boost the town—advertising day. You
                        think it's always been and yet you don't even know what
                        day it comes on. I'll bet you haven't had such a day out
                        here for more than ten years."
                    "Ooh!" chimed in one of the little ones, quite apropos of
                        so great a flight of time. "I was born—now—three years
                        ago."
                    "Were you?" I said. "Then you scarcely know of
                        Booster Day, do you?"
                    "No."
                    "Ya do, too," put in the ground boy. "Ya said
                        awhile ago ya saw the parade last summer."
                    "No, I never."
                    "Ya did too."
                    To prevent hostilities over this very important point, I said to another boy,
                        drawn near, and who was standing by open-mouthed: "Where do you
                        live?"
                    
                    "In there," he pointed, indicating my old study.
                        "We keep boarders."
                    "Then you can tell me maybe—did that house always have a
                        porch?"
                    "No, sir. They put that one on two years ago."
                    "And was it always on the corner?"
                    "No, sir. They moved it over when they built this house in here. I
                        know 'cause, now, we lived down there before we moved up here, and
                        I seen 'em do it."
                    "That settles it," I said cheerfully. "Do you
                        suppose your mother would let me go in and look at that corner
                        room?"
                    "My mother's away to the country. It's only my
                        sister's at home. But you can come in. The room ain't
                        rented now."
                    He marched briskly up the steps and opened the door. I followed while
                        Franklin, who had been idly listening to the conversation as he sketched,
                        stood outside and watched me. It was quite the same, save for a new, smooth,
                        hardwood floor and the porch. The window where I always sat commanded no
                        view of any lawn, but, looking across the way and at the house diagonally
                        opposite, I could get it all back. And it touched me in a way—like the dim,
                        far-off echo or suggestion of something—a sound, an odor—one could scarcely
                        say what. At best it was not cheerful, a slight pain in it,—and I was glad to
                        leave.
                    Once outside I sat under the wide spreading elms waiting for Franklin to
                        finish his sketch and thinking of old days. Over there, in the house
                        diagonally opposite, on the second floor, had lived Thompson, the vain, in
                        his delightfully furnished room. I always thought of him as vain, even in
                        school. He was so tall, so superior, with a slight curl to his fine lips,
                        with good clothes, a burning interest in football and hockey, and money,
                        apparently, to gratify his every whim. He had a kindly, curious and yet
                        supercilious interest in me, and occasionally stopped in to stare at me,
                        apparently, and ask casually after my work.
                    
                    And around the corner of the next block, in a large square house, but poorly
                        provided with trees, lived one of the most interesting of the few who took
                        an interest in me at the time. I could write a long and exhaustive character
                        study of this youth, but it would be of no great import here. He was a kind
                        of fox or wolf in his way, with an urbane and enticing way of showing his
                        teeth in a smile which quite disarmed my opposition and interested me in
                        him. He was a card sharp and as much a gambler as any young boy may be. He
                        drank, too, though rarely to excess. All the mechanistic religious and moral
                        propaganda of the college intended to keep the young straight were to him a
                        laughing matter. He was his own boss and instructor. Evidently his family
                        had some money, for they seemed to provide him freely. Once he came to me
                        with the proposal that we take two girls, both of whom he knew and to whom
                        he seemed perfectly willing to recommend me in the most ardent fashion, to
                        Louisville over a certain holiday—Washington's Birthday, I think—he
                        to arrange all details and expenses. At first I refused, but after listening
                        to him I was persuaded and agreed to go. The result, as I feared, proved
                        decidedly disastrous to my vanity.
                    His girl, whom he took me to see, was petite, dark, attractive, by no means
                        shy or inexperienced; and at her house I was introduced to a plump,
                        seductive blonde of about seventeen, who was quite ready for any adventure.
                        She had been told about me, almost persuaded against her will, I fancy, to
                        like me. But I had no tongue. I could not talk to her. I was afraid of her.
                        Still, by reason of a superhuman effort on my part to seem at ease, and not
                        dull, I got through this evening; how I don't know. At any rate, I
                        had not alienated her completely.
                    The following Sunday we went, and had I had the least sang
                            froid or presence, I might then and there have been instructed in
                        all the mysteries of love. This girl was out for an adventure. She was
                        jealous of the attention showered upon her friend by W—. Secretly  I think she admired him, only in this
                        instance loyalty to her friend and indifference on his part made any
                        expression of it a little difficult. I was a poor substitute—a lay figure—of
                        which she was perfectly willing to make use.
                    On the way on the train we sat in the same seat and I took her hand. A little
                        later I gallantly compelled myself to slip my arm around her waist, though
                        it was almost with fear and trembling. I could not think of any witty,
                        interesting things to say, and I was deadly conscious of the fact. So I
                        struggled along torturing myself all the way with thoughts of my
                        inadequacy.
                    Arrived at Louisville, we walked about to see the sights. There had been a
                        great tornado a few days before, and the tremendous damage was still very
                        much in evidence. Then we went to the principal hotel for dinner. My friend,
                        with an effrontery which to me passed over into the realm of the
                        unbelievable, registered for the four of us, taking two rooms. I never even
                        saw the form of registration. Then we went up, and my girl companion, having
                        by now concluded that I was a stick, went into the room whither W— and his
                        sweetheart had retired. W— came to my room for me, and we went down to
                        dinner. He even urged more boldness on my part.
                    After dinner, which passed heavily enough for me, for I was conscious of
                        failure, we had five hours before our train should be due to return. That
                        time was spent in part by myself and this girl idling in the general
                        parlors, because W— and his mate had mysteriously disappeared. Then after an
                        hour or more they sought us out and suggested a drive. Since we had brought
                        bags, we had to return to the hotel to get them and pay the bill. There was
                        still three quarters of an hour. After perfecting her toilet in the room
                        belonging to my friend, my girl came downstairs to the parlor and, a half
                        hour later, just in time to make the train, W— and his charmer appeared. The
                        day was done. The  opportunity gone. As in the
                        previous cases, I heaped mounds of obloquy upon my head. I told myself over
                        and over that never again would I venture to make overtures to any woman—that
                        it would be useless. "I am doomed to failure," I said.
                        "No girl will ever look at me. I am a fool, a dunce, homely,
                        pathetic, inadequate."
                    Back in Bloomington I parted from them in a black despair, concealing my
                        chagrin under a masque of pseudogaiety. But when I was alone I could have
                        cried. I never saw that maiden any more. Afterwards W— took me to see his
                        girl again. He had no feeling of disappointment in me, apparently, or rather
                        he was careful to conceal it. He seemed to like me quite as much as ever,
                        but he proposed no more outings of that kind.
                    And there were C. C. Hall, who lived in a small hall bedroom over me, and
                        used to insist, for policy's sake, I fancy, that he thought better in a small room, and that too much heat was not
                        very healthy; and Short Bill Haughey, expert on the violin and a seeker
                        after knowledge in connection with politics and taxation; Arthur Pendleton,
                        solemn delver into the intricacies of the law; Russell Ratliff, embryo
                        metaphysician and stoic—a long company. I can see them now, all life before
                        them, the old, including men and women, merely so much baggage to be cleared
                            away—their careers, their loves, their hopes all that was important in life. And life then
                        felt so fresh and good, so inviting.
                    After this came the university, wholly changed, but far more attractive than
                        it had been in my day—a really beautiful school. I could find only a few
                        things—Wylie Hall, the brook, a portion of some building which had formerly
                        been our library. It had been so added to that it was scarcely recognizable.
                        I ran back in memory to all those whom I had known here—the young men, the
                        women, the professors. Where were they all? Suddenly I felt dreadfully
                        lonely, as though I had been shipwrecked on a desert island. Not a soul did
                        I know any more of all those who had been here; scarcely one  could I definitely place. What is life that
                        it can thus obliterate itself, I asked myself. If a whole realm of interests
                        and emotions can thus definitely pass, what is anything?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER LXI
                    THE END OF THE JOURNEY
                    WE sped north in the gathering dusk, and I was glad to go.
                        It was as though I had been to see something that I had better not have
                        seen—a house that is tenantless, a garden that is broken down and ravished
                        and run to weeds and wild vines, naked and open to the moon—a place of which
                        people say in whispers that it is haunted. Yes, this whole region was
                        haunted for me.
                    I took small interest in the once pleasing and even dramatic ravine where, in
                        my college year, I had so often rambled, and which then seemed so beautiful.
                        Now I was lonely. If I were to add one chamber to Dante's profound
                        collection in the Inferno, it would be one in which, alone and lonely, sits
                        one who contemplates the emotions and the fascinations of a world that is no
                        more.
                    For a little way the country had some of the aspects of the regions south of
                        French Lick, but we were soon out of that, at a place called Gosport, and
                        once more in that flat valley lying between the White and Wabash rivers. At
                        Gosport, though it was almost dark, we could see an immense grassy plain or
                        marsh which the overflowing river had made for itself in times past, a
                        region which might easily be protected by dykes and made into a paradise of
                        wheat or corn. America, however, is still a young and extravagant country,
                        not nearly done sowing its wild oats, let alone making use of its
                        opportunities, and so such improvements are a long time off.
                    At Gosport, a very poorly lighted town, quite dark, we were told that the
                        quickest way to Martinsville, which was on our route to Indianapolis, was to
                        follow the river road, and because the moon had not risen yet, we were
                        halloing at every crossroads to find out whether we were on the right
                        one.
                    
                    "Hallo-o-o!"
                    "Hallo! What do you want?"
                    "This the right road to Martinsville?"
                    "Straight on!"
                    How often this little hail and farewell occurred outside houses set back far
                        from the road!
                    And the night lights of machines coming toward us were once more as
                        picturesque as those east of Warsaw, New York. From afar we could see them
                        coming along this flat bottomland, like giant fireflies, their rays,
                        especially when they swept about turns, seeming to stand out before them
                        like the long feeling antennae of insects, white and cautious. They were all
                        headed in the direction of Gosport, though it did not seem quite possible
                        that they were all going there.
                    In this warm, sensuous wind that was blowing here, it seemed as though nature
                        must be about some fruitful labor. Sometimes a night achieves a quality of
                        this sort, something so human and sympathetic that it is like a seeking
                        hand. I sat back in the car meditating on all I had seen, how soon now we
                        would be in Indianapolis and Carmel,—and then this trip would be over.
                        Already with turns and twists and bypaths we had registered about two
                        thousand miles. We had crossed four states and traversed this fifth one from
                        end to end nearly. I had seen every place in which I had ever lived up to
                        sixteen years of age, and touched, helplessly, on every pleasant and
                        unpleasant memory that I had known in that period. The land had yielded a
                        strange crop of memories and of characteristics to be observed. What did I
                        think of all I had seen, I asked myself. Had the trip been worth while? Was
                        it wise to disinter those shades of the past and brood over them? I recalled
                        the comment of the poet to whom I had given the reception when I told him I
                        was coming out here. "You won't get anything out of it. It
                        will bore you." But had I been bored? Had I not gotten something
                        out of it? Somehow the lines of the ghost in Hamlet kept repeating
                        themselves:
                    
                    "I am thy father's spirit, doomed for a certain time to
                        walk the earth—"
                    Martinsville, about half way to Indianapolis, counting from Gosport, was
                        another county seat, and in stopping there for a shave and a mouthful of
                        something to eat, I learned that this, also, was a locally celebrated
                        watering place, that there were not less than six different sanatoriums
                        here, and always as many as fifteen hundred patients taking the baths and
                        drinking the water for rheumatism and gout—and I had scarcely ever heard of
                        the place. The center of the town looked as though it might be enjoying some
                        form of prosperity, for the court house on all sides was surrounded by large
                        and rather tasteful and even metropolitan looking shops. This portion of the
                        city was illuminated by five-lamp standards and even boasted two or three
                        small fire signs. I began to wonder when, if ever, these towns would take on
                        more than the significance of just newness and prosperity. Or is it better
                        that people should live well always, rather than that their haunts should be
                        lighted by the fires of tragedy? Did Rome really need to be sacked? Did Troy
                        need to fall?
                    Franklin seemed to consider that peace and human comfort were of more import
                        than great tragic records, and I thought of this, but to no purpose. One can
                        never solve the riddle, really. It twists and turns, heaves and changes
                        color, like a cauldron that glows and bubbles but is never still.
                    And then we settled ourselves once more for the last run of thirtyfive miles
                        to Indianapolis. It was after nine, and by eleven, anyhow, if not before,
                        barring accidents, we should be there. The country north of here, so far as
                        I could see, retained none of the interesting variations of the land to the
                        south. It was all level and the roads, if one could judge by the feel, as
                        smooth as a table. There were no towns, apparently, on this particular road,
                        and not many houses, but we encountered market wagon after market wagon,
                        heavily loaded with country produce, a single light swinging between their
                             wheels, all making their way north to the
                        young, colorless city of three hundred thousand or more.
                    And when we were still within ten miles of it occurred the second of these
                        psychic accidents which always come in twos for me. South of Bedford we had
                        killed a hen. In the glow of our lamp, perhaps a hundred yards away, there
                        suddenly appeared out of the dark a brown pig, young but quite as large as a
                        dog, which at sight of the lights seemed to make straight for us. It was
                        squealing plaintively, as though seeking human care, and yet we bore down on
                        it, quite unable, as Bert explained afterward, to turn quickly enough to
                        save it.
                    There was a smash, a grunt, and then silence. We were speeding along quite as
                        swiftly as before.
                    "I tried to turn," Bert called back, "but the darn
                        little fool made straight for us. They always do for some
                        reason."
                    "Yes, it's odd about pigs that way," commented
                        Franklin.
                    "Number two," I said to myself.
                    And in a mile or two more the lights of Indianapolis began to appear. It had
                        clouded up, as I have said, as we neared Martinsville, and now the heavens
                        reflected the glow of the city below. We passed those remote houses which
                        people seeking to make a little money out of their real estate, or to live
                        where rents are low, build and occupy. I thought of the walled cities of the
                        middle ages, when people crowded together as compactly as possible, in order
                        to gain the feeling of comfort and security. In these days we are so safe
                        that the loneliest cabin in the mountains fears no unfriendly intruder.
                    In a few moments more we were trundling up a rough street, avoiding street
                        cars, crossing railroad and car tracks and soon stopping at the main
                        entrance of one of those skyscraper hotels which every American town of any
                        size must now boast or forever hang its head in shame. Anything under nine
                        stories is a failure—a sore shame.
                    
                    "We'll have a bite of something before we run out to
                        Carmel, won't we?" commented Franklin.
                    "Let's end this historic pilgrimage with a drink,"
                        I suggested. "Only mine shall be so humble a thing as a Scotch and
                        soda."
                    "Well, I think I'll have some tea!" said
                        Franklin.
                    So in we went.
                    I was not at all tired, but the wind had made me sleepy. It had been a
                        pleasant day, like all these days—save for the evoked spirits of dead things.
                        We drank and smiled and paid and then sped out of Indianapolis's
                        best street, north, and on to Carmel. We were within a mile and a half of
                        Franklin's home when we had our last blowout in the front right
                        wheel—the two rear ones carried new tires.
                    "I knew it!" exclaimed Bert crustily, reaching for his
                        crutches and getting himself out. "I knew we'd never get
                        back without one. I was just wondering where it was going to
                        happen."
                    "That's funny, Bert!" exclaimed Franklin.
                        "The last time we came north from Indianapolis, do you remember, we
                        broke down right here."
                    "I remember all right," said Bert, getting out the tools
                        and starting to loosen the tire clamps. "You'd better get
                        out your note book, Mr. Dreiser, and make a note of this; the
                        trip's not done yet."
                    Bert had seen me draw my deadly pencil and paper so often that he could not
                        resist that one comment.
                    "I'll try and remember this, Bert, without notes, if
                        you'll just get the wheel on," I commented wearily.
                    "This is what comes of thinking evil," called Franklin
                        jocosely. "If Bert hadn't been thinking that we ought to
                        have a breakdown here, we wouldn't have had one. The puncture was
                        really in his psychic unity."
                    "What's that?" asked Bert, looking up.
                    "Well, it's something connected with the gizzard,"
                        I was about to say, but instead I observed: "It's your
                        spiritual consciousness of well being, Bert. You're all  right only you don't know it. You
                        want to get so that you always know it."
                    "Uh huh!" he grunted heavily. "I
                        see."
                    But I don't think he did.
                    Then we climbed in, and in about two more minutes we were carrying our bags
                        up Franklin's front steps and dismissing the car for the night.
                        Mrs. Booth came out and welcomed us.
                    "We thought you were going to get back last night. What delayed
                        you?"
                    "Oh, we just took a little longer," laughed Franklin.
                    There were letters and a telegram, and instead of my being able to stay a few
                        days, as I had hoped, it seemed necessary that I should go the next day. My
                        train left at two, and to get various things left at Indianapolis on my way
                        south, I would have to leave a little before one. Speed appeared the next
                        morning to say he would like to accompany me as far as Indianapolis. Bert
                        came to say goodby early. He was off to join a high school picnic, composed
                        exclusively of ex-classmates of a certain high school year. I was beginning
                        to think I should see no more of my charming friend of a few days before,
                        when,—but that—
                    On my long, meditative ride back to New York, I had time to think over the
                        details of my trip and the nature of our land and the things I had seen and
                        what I really thought of them. I concluded that my native state and my
                        country are as yet children, politically and socially—a child state and a
                        child country. They have all the health, wealth, strength, enthusiasm for
                        life that is necessary, but their problems are all before them. We are
                        indeed a free people, in part, bound only by our illusions, but we are a
                        heavily though sweetly illusioned people nevertheless. A little over a
                        hundred years ago we began with great dreams, most wondrous dreams,
                        really—impossible ideals, and we are still dreaming them.
                    "Man," says our national constitution, "is endowed
                             by his creator with certain inalienable
                        rights." But is he? Are we born free? Equal? I cannot see it. Some
                        of us may achieve freedom, equality—but that is not a right, certainly not an
                        inalienable right. It is a stroke, almost, of unparalleled fortune. But it
                        is such a beautiful dream.
                    As for the American people, at least that limited section of it that lies
                        between New York and Indiana, the lakes and the Ohio River—what of them?
                        Sometimes I think of America as a country already composed of or divided
                        into distinct types or nationalities, which may merge or not as time goes
                        on;—or they may be diverging phases of American life, destined to grow
                        sharper and clearer—New England, the South, the Far West, the Middle West.
                        Really, this region between New York and Indiana—New York and the Mississippi
                        really—may be looked upon as a distinct section. It has little in common with
                        New England, the South, or the Far West, temperamentally. It is a healthy,
                        happy land in which Americans accept their pale religions and their politics
                        and their financial and social fortunes with an easy grace. Here flourishes
                        the harmless secret order; the church and the moving picture entertain where
                        they do not "save"; the newspapers browbeat, lie,
                        threaten, cajole; the plethoric trusts tax them of their last cent by high
                        prices, rents, fares and interest on mortgages,—and yet they rarely, if ever,
                        complain. It is still a new land—a rich one. Are they not free and equal?
                        Does not the sacred American constitution, long since buried under a mass of
                        decisions, say so? And have they not free speech to say what the newspapers,
                        controlled by the trusts, will permit them to say? Happy, happy people!
                    Yet for the dream's sake, as I told myself at this time, and as
                        against an illimitable background of natural chance and craft, I would like
                        to see this and the other sections with which it is so closely allied, this
                        vast republic, live on. It is so splendid, so tireless. Its people, in spite
                        of their defects and limitations, sing so at their tasks.  There are dark places, but there are splendid
                        points of light, too. One is their innocence, complete and enduring; another
                        is their faith in ideals and the Republic. A third is their optimism or
                        buoyancy of soul, their courage to get up in the morning and go up and down
                        the world, whistling and singing. Oh, the whistling, singing American, with
                        his jest and his sound heart and that light of humorous apprehension in his
                        eye! How wonderful it all is! It isn't English, or French, or
                        German, or Spanish, or Russian, or Swedish, or Greek. It's
                        American, "Good Old United States,"—and for that reason I
                        liked this region and all these other portions of America that I have ever
                        seen. New England isn't so kindly, the South not so hopeful, the
                        Far West more so, but they all have something of these characteristics which
                        I have been describing.
                    And for these reasons I would have this tremendous, bubbling Republic live
                        on, as a protest perhaps against the apparently too unbreakable rule that
                        democracy, equality, or the illusion of it, is destined to end in disaster.
                        It cannot survive ultimately, I think. In the vast, universal sea of motion,
                        where change and decay are laws, and individual power is almost always
                        uppermost, it must go under—but until then—
                    We are all such pathetic victims of chance, anyhow. We are born, we struggle,
                        we plan, and chance blows all our dreams away. If, therefore, one country,
                        one state dares to dream the impossible, why cast it down before its
                        ultimate hour? Why not dream with it? It is so gloriously, so truly a poetic
                        land. We were conceived in ecstasy and born in dreams.
                    And so, were I one of sufficient import to be able to speak to my native
                        land, the galaxy of states of which it is composed, I would say: Dream on.
                        Believe. Perhaps it is unwise, foolish, childlike, but dream anyhow.
                        Disillusionment is destined to appear. You may vanish as have other great
                        dreams, but even so, what a glorious, an imperishable memory!
                    "Once," will say those historians of far distant nations
                             of times yet unborn, perchance,
                        "once there was a great republic. And its domain lay between a sea
                        and seaa great continent. In its youth and strength it dared assert that all
                        men were free and equal, endowed with certain inalienable rights. Then came
                        the black storms of life—individual passions and envies, treasons,
                        stratagems, spoils. The very gods, seeing it young, dreamful, of great
                        cheer, were filled with envy. They smote and it fell. But, oh, the wondrous
                        memory of it! For in those days men were free, because they
                            imagined they were free—"
                    Of dreams and the memory of them is life compounded.
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
