
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, George Cary, 1839-1911. The Big Broth: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2340
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    THE DOG CHARGE.
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE BIG BROTHER
                    A STORY OF INDIAN WAR
                
                BY
                    GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON Author of "HOW TO EDUCATE YOURSELF," ETC.
                Illustrated
                
                    NEW YORK
                    G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS FORTH AVENUE AND TWENTY-THIRD STREET
                    1875.
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT.
                     G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS. 1875
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    CHAPTER I. SINQUEFIELD
                        7
                        
                    CHAPTER II. THE STROMING OF SINQUEFIELD
                        17
                        
                    CHAPTER III. SAM'S LECTURE
                        28
                        
                    CHAPTER IV. SAM FINDS IT NECESSARY TO THINK
                        38
                        
                    CHAPTER V. SAM'S FORTRESS
                        46
                        
                    CHAPTER VI. SURPRISED
                        61
                        
                    CHAPTER VII. CONFUSED
                        67
                        
                    CHAPTER VIII. WEATHERFORD
                        71
                        
                    CHAPTER IX. WEARY WAITING
                        83
                        
                    
                    CHAPTER X. FIGHTING FIRE
                        93
                        
                    CHAPTER XI. IN
                        THE WILDERNESS
                        104
                        
                    CHAPTER XII. AN ALARM AND A WELCOME
                        118
                        
                    CHAPTER XIII. JOE'S PLAN
                        124
                        
                    CHAPTER XIV. THE CANOE FIGHT
                        130
                        
                    CHAPTER XV. THE BOYS ARE DRIVEN OUT OF THE ROOT FORTRESS
                        143
                        
                    CHAPTER XVI. WHERE
                        IS JOE?
                        159
                        
                    CHAPTER XVII. AFAMINE
                        163
                        
                    CHAPTER XVIII. WHICH ENDS THE STORY
                        173
                        
                
            
            
            
                LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
                
                    THE DOG CHARGE
                        
                            Frontispiece.
                        
                        
                    
                    SAM'S PARTY
                        20
                        
                    "WE'S DUN LOSDAT'S
                        WHA' WE IS
                        40
                        
                    JUDIE ON THE RAFT
                        49
                        
                    THE PERILOUS LEAP
                        83
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE BIG BROTHER.
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    SINQUEFIELD.
                    IN the quiet days of peace and security in which we live it is difficult to imagine such a time
                        of excitement as that at which our story opens, in the summer of 1813. From the beginning of
                        that year, the Creek Indians in Alabama and Mississippi had shown a decided disposition to
                        become hostile. In addition to the usual incentives to war which always exist where the white
                        settlements border closely upon Indian territory, there were several special causes operating to
                        bring about a struggle at that time. We were already at war with the British, and British agents
                        were very active in stirring  up trouble on our frontiers, knowing
                        that nothing would so surely weaken the Americans as a general outbreak of Indian hostilities.
                        Tecumseh, the great chief, had visited the Creeks, too, and had urged them to go on the war
                        path, threatening them, in the event of their refusal, with the wrath of the Great Spirit. His
                        appeals to their superstition were materially strengthened by the occurrence of an earthquake,
                        which singularly enough, he had predicted, threatening that when he returned to his home he
                        would stamp his foot and shake their houses down. Their own prophets, Francis and Singuista, had
                        preached war, too, telling the Indians that their partial adoption of civilization, and their
                        relations of friendship with the whites, were sorely displeasing to the Great Spirit, who would
                        surely punish them if they did not immediately abandon the civilization and butcher the
                        pale-faces. Francis predicted, also, that in the coming struggle no Indians would be killed,
                        while the whites would be completely exterminated. All this was promised on condition that the
                        Indians should become complete savages again, quitting all the habits of industry and thrift
                        which  they had been learning for some years past, and fighting
                        mercilessly against all whites, sparing none.
                    All these things combined to bring on the war, and during the spring several raids were made by
                        small bodies of the Indians, in which they were pretty severely punished by the whites. Finally
                        a battle was fought at Burnt-corn, in July 1813, and this was the signal for the breaking out of
                        the most terrible of all Indian wars,the most terrible, because the savages engaged in it had
                        learned from the whites how to fight, and because many of their chiefs were educated
                        half-breeds, familiar with the country and with all the points of weakness on the part of the
                        settlers. Stockade forts were built in various places, and in these the settlers took refuge,
                        leaving their fields to grow as they might and their houses to be plundered and burned whenever
                        the Indians should choose to visit them. The stockades were so built as to enclose several acres
                        each, and strong block houses inside, furnished additional protection. Into these forts there
                        came men, women, and children, from all parts of the country, each bringing as much food as
                        possible, and each  willing to lend a hand to the common defence
                        and the common support.
                    On the 30th of August, the Indians attacked Fort Mims, one of the largest of the stockade
                        stations, and after a desperate battle destroyed it, killing all but seventeen of the five
                        hundred and fifty people who were living in it. The news of this terrible slaughter quickly
                        spread over the country, and everybody knew now that a general war had begun, in which the
                        Indians meant to destroy the whites utterly, not sparing even the youngest children.
                    Those who had remained on their farms now flocked in great numbers to the forts, and every effort
                        was made to strengthen the defences at all points. The men, including all the boys who were
                        large enough to point a gun and pull a trigger, were organized into companies and assigned to
                        port-holes, in order that each might know where to go to do his part of the fighting whenever
                        the Indians should come. Even those of the women who knew how to shoot, insisted upon being
                        provided with guns and assigned to posts of duty. There was not only no use in flinching, but
                        every one of them knew that whenever the fort should  be attacked
                        the only question to be decided was, "Shall we beat the savages off, or shall every man
                        woman and child of us be butchered?" They could not run away, for there was nowhere to
                        run, except into the hands of the merciless foe. The life of every one of: them was involved in
                        the defence of the forts, and each was, therefore, anxious to do all he could to make the
                        defense a successful one. Their only hope was in desperate courage, and, being Americans, their
                        courage was equal to the demand made upon it. It was not a civilized war, in which surrenders,
                        and exchanges of prisoners, and treaties and flags of truce, or even neutrality offered any
                        escape. It was a savage war, in which the Indians intended to kill all the whites, old and
                        young, wherever they could find them. The people in the forts knew this, and they made their
                        arrangements accordingly.
                    Now if the boys and girls who read this story will get their atlases and turn to the map of
                        Alabama, they will find some points, the relative positions of which they must remember if they
                        wish to understand fully the happenings with which we have to do. Just below the Junetion  of the Alabama and Tombigbee rivers, on the east side of the
                        stream, they will find the little town of Tensaw, and Fort Mims stood very near that place. The
                        peninsula formed by the two rivers above their junction is now Clarke County, and almost exactly
                        in its centre stands the village of Grove Hill. A mile or two to the north-east stood Fort
                        Sinquefield. Fort White was several miles further west, and Fort Glass, afterwards called Fort
                        Madison, stood fifteen miles south, at a point about three miles south of the present village of
                        Suggsville. On the eastern side of the Alabama river is the town of Claiborne, and at a point
                        about three miles below Claiborne the principal events of this story occurred. It will not hurt
                        you, boys and girls, to learn a little accurate geography, by looking up these places before
                        going on with the story, and if I were your school-master, instead of your story teller, I
                        should stop here to advise you always to look on the map for every town, river, lake, mountain
                        or other geographical thing mentioned in any book or paper you read. I would advise you, too, if
                        I were your schoolmaster, to add up all the figures given in  books
                        and newspapers, to see if the writers have made any mistakes; and it is a good plan too, to go
                        at once to the dictionary when you meet a word you do not quite comprehend, or to the
                        encyclopdia or history, or whatever else is handy, whenever you read about anything and would
                        like to know more about it. I say I should stop here to give you some such advice as this, if I
                        were your schoolmaster. As I am not, however, I must go on with my story instead.
                    Within a mile or two of Fort Sinquefield lived a gentleman named Hardwicke. He was a widower with
                        three children. Sam, the oldest of the three, was nearly seventeen; Tommy was eleven, and a
                        little girl of seven years, named Judith, but called Judie, was the other. Mr. Hardwicke was a
                        quiet, studious man, who had come to Alabama from Baltimore, not many years before, and since
                        the death of his wife he had spent most of his time in his library, which was famous throughout
                        the settlement on account of the wonderful number of books it contained. There were hardly any
                        schools in Alabama in those days, and Mr. Hardwicke, being a man of education and considerable
                             wealth, gave up almost the whole of his time to his children,
                        teaching them in doors and out, and directing them in their reading. It was understood that Sam
                        would be sent north to attend College the next year, and meantime he had become a voracious
                        reader. He read all sorts of books, and as he remembered and applied the things he learned from
                        them, it was a common saying in the country round about, that "Sam Hardwicke knows
                        pretty nearly everything." Of course that was not true, but he knew a good deal more
                        than most of the men in the country, and better than all, he knew how very much there was for
                        him yet to learn. A boy has learned the very best lesson of his life when he knows that he
                        really does not know much; it is a lesson some people never learn at all. But books were not the
                        only things Sam Hardwicke was familiar with. He could ride the worst horses in the country and
                        shoot a rifle almost as well as Tandy Walker himself, and Tandy, as every reader of history
                        knows, was the most famous rifleman, as well as the best guide and most daring scout in the
                        whole southwest. Sam had hunted, too, over almost every  inch of
                        country within twenty miles around, trudging alone sometimes for a week or a fortnight before
                        returning, and in this way he had learned to know the distances, the directions, and the nature
                        of the country lying between different places,a knowledge worth gaining by anybody, and
                        especially valuable to a boy who lived in a frontier settlement. He was strong of limb and
                        active as he was strong, and his "book knowledge," as the neighbors called it,
                        served him many a good turn in the woods, when he was beset by difficulties.
                    Sam's father was one of the very last of the settlers to go into a fort. He remained at
                        home as long as he could, and went to Fort Sinquefield at last, only when warned by an Indian
                        who for some reason liked him, that he and his children's lives were in imminent
                        danger. That was on the first of September, and when the Hardwicke family, black and white, were
                        safely within the little fortress, there remained outside only two families, namely, those of
                        Abner James and Ransom Kimball, who determined to remain one more night at Kimball's
                        house, two miles from Sinquefield.  That very night the Indians,
                        under Francis the prophet, burned the house, killing twelve of the inmates. Five others escaped,
                        and one of them, Isham Kimball, who was then a boy of sixteen, afterwards became Clerk of Clarke
                        County, where he was still living in 1857.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                    THE STORMING OF SINQUEFIELD.
                    WHEN the news of the massacre at Kimball's reached Fort Glass, a detachment bodies,
                        which they brought to Fort Sinquefield for burial. The graves were dug in a little valley three
                        or four hundred yards from the fort, and all the people went out to attend the funeral. The
                        services had just come to an end when the cry of "Indians! Indians!" was
                        raised, and a body of warriors, under the prophet Francis, dashed down from behind a hill, upon
                        the defenceless people, whose guns were inside the fort. The first impulse of every one was to
                        catch up the little children and hasten inside the gates, but it was manifestly too late. The
                        Indians were already nearer the fort than they, and were running 
                        with all their might, brandishing their knives and tomahawks, and yelling like demons.
                    There seemed no way of escape. Sam Hardwicke took little Judie up in his arms, and, quick as
                        thought calculated the chances of reaching the fort. Clearly the only way in which he could
                        possibly get there, was by leaving his little sister to her fate and running for his life. But
                        Sam Hardwicke was not the sort of boy to do anything so cowardly as that. Abandoning the thought
                        of getting to the fort, he called to Tom to follow him, and with Judie in his arms,
                        he ran into a neighboring thicket, where the three, with Joe, a black boy of
                        twelve or thirteen years who had followed them, concealed themselves in the bushes. Whether they
                        had been seen by the Indians or not, they had no way of knowing, but their only hope of safety
                        now lay in absolute stillness. They crouched down together and kept silence.
                    "What's we gwine to do here, I wonder," whispered the black boy.
                        "Whar mus' we go, Mas Sam?"
                    Sam did nots answer. He was too much absorbed in studying the situation to talk or even  to listen. The Indians were coming down upon the white people from
                        every side, and the only wonder was that Sam's little party had managed to find a gap
                        in their line big enough to escape through.
                    "Be patient, Joe," said little Judie, in
                        the calmest voice possible. "Brother Sam will take care of us. Give him time. He always
                        does know what to do."
                    "Be still, Joe," said Sam. "If you talk that Indian 'll see
                        us," pointing to one not thirty steps distant, though Joe had not yet seen him.
                    A terrified "ugh!" was all the reply Joe could make.
                    Meantime the situation of the fort, people was terrible. Cut off from the gates and unarmed,
                        there seemed to be nothing for them to do except to meet death as bravely and calmly as they
                        could. A young man named Isaac Harden happened to be near the gates, however, on horseback, and
                        accompanied by a pack of about sixty hounds: And this young man, whose name has barely crept
                        into a corner of history, was both a hero and a military genius, and he did right then and
                        there, a deed as brilliant and as heroic as any other in history. Seeing the perilous position
                        of the fort  people, he raised himself in his stirrups and waving
                        his hat, charged the savages with his pack of dogs, whooping and yelling after
                        the manner of a huntsman, and leading the fierce bloodhounds right into the ranks of the
                        infuriated Indians. The dogs being trained to chase and seize any living thing upon which their
                        master might set them, attacked the Indians furiously, Harden encouraging them and riding down
                        group after group of the bewildered savages. Charging right and left with his dogs, he succeeded
                        in putting the Indians for a time upon the defensive, thus giving the white people time to
                        escape into the fort. When all were in except Sam's party and a Mrs. Phillips who was
                        killed, Harden began looking about him for a chance to secure his own safety. His impetuosity
                        had carried him clear through the Indian ranks, and the savages, having beaten the dogs off,
                        turned their attention to the young cavalier who had balked them in the very moment of their
                        victory. They were between him and the gates, hundreds against one. His dogs were killed or
                        scattered, and he saw at a glance that there was little hope for him. The woods behind 
                        
                            SAM'S PARTY
                        
                         him were full of Indians, and so retreat was impossible. Turning
                        his horse's head towards the gates, he plunged spurs into his side, and with a pistol
                        in each hand, dashed through the savage ranks, firing as he went. Blowing a blast upon his horn
                        to recall those of his dogs which were still alive, he escaped on foot into the fort, just in
                        time to let the gate shut in the face of the foremost Indian. His horse, history tells us, was
                        killed under him, and he had five bullet holes through his clothes, but his skin was unbroken.
                    Francis and his followers were balked but not beaten. Retiring for a few minutes behind the hill,
                        they rallied and came again to the assault, more furiously than ever. Their savage, instincts
                        were thoroughly aroused by the unexpected defeat they had sustained in the very moment of their
                        victory, and they were determined now to take the fort at any cost. Their plan of attack showed
                        the skill of their leader, who was really a man of considerable ability in spite of his
                        fanatical belief in his own prophetic gifts. He avoided both the errors usually committed by
                        Indian leaders in storming fortified places. He refused, on the one  hand, to let his men waste their powder and their time in desultory firing, and, on the
                        other, he decided not to risk everything on the hazard of a single assault. His plan was to take
                        the fort by storm, but the storming was to be done systematicatly. Dividing his force into two
                        parts, he sent one to the attack, and held the other back in the hope that the first would gain
                        a position so near the stockade as to make the assault of the second, led by himself, doubly
                        sure of success. The plan was a good one, without doubt, and no man was better qualified than
                        Francis to carry it out.
                    When the storming party came, the people in the fort were ready for it. Counting out the women
                        and children, their numbers were not large, but they were a brave and determined set of men and
                        boys, who knew very well in what kind of a struggle they were engaged. They reserved their fire
                        until the Indians were within thirty yards, of the fort, and then delivered it as rapidly as
                        they could, taking care to waste none of it by random or careless shooting. The fort consisted,
                        as all the border fortifications did, of a simple stockade, inside of which was a block-house
                        for the protection  of the women and children, and designed also as
                        sort of "last ditch," in which a desperate resistance could be made, even
                        after the fort had been carried. The stockade was made of the trunks of pine-trees set on end in
                        the ground, close together, but pierced at intervals with port-holes, through which the men of
                        the garrison could fire. Such a stockade afforded an excellent protection against the bullets
                        and the arrows of the Indians, and gave its defenders a great advantage over the assailing.
                        force, which must, of course, be exposed to a galling fire from the men behind the barriers. As
                        the stockade was about fifteen feet high, climbing over it was almost wholly out of the
                        question, and the only way to take the fort was to rush upon it with fence rails, stop up the
                        port-holes immediately in front, and keep so close to, the stockade as to escape the fire from
                        points to the right and left, while engaged in cutting down the timber barrier. If the Indians
                        could do this, their superior numbers would enable them to rush in through the opening thus
                        made, and then the block-house would be the only refuge left to the white people. The
                        block-house was a building made of very large  timbers, hewed
                        square, laid close upon each other and notched to an exact fit at the ends. It had but one
                        entrance, and that was near the top. This could be reached only by a ladder, and should the
                        Indians gain access to the fort, the whites would retire, fighting, to this building, and when
                        all were in, the ladder would be drawn in after them. From the port-holes of the block-house a
                        fierce fire could be delivered, and as the square timbers were not easily set on fire, a body of
                        Indians must be very determined indeed, if they succeeded in taking or destroying a blockhouse.
                        At Fort Mims, however, they had done so, burning the house over the heads of the inmates.
                    The reader will understand, from this description of the fort, how possible it was for the people
                        within it to withstand a very determined attack, and to inflict heavy loss upon the savages,
                        without suffering much in their turn. Francis's men charged furiously upon the silent
                        stockade, but were sent reeling back as soon as they had come near enough for the riflemen
                        within to fire with absolute accuracy of aim. Then the second body, under Francis himself,
                        charged, but with no better  success. A pause followed, and another
                        charge was made just before nightfall.
                    This time some of the savages succeeded in reaching the stockade and stopping up some of the
                        port-holes. They cut down a part of the pickets too, and had their friends charged again at
                        once, the fort would undoubtedly have been carried. As it was, Francis saw fit to draw off his
                        men, for the time at least, and retire beyond the hill. What was now to be done? The attack had
                        been repulsed, but it might be renewed at any moment. The Indians had suffered considerably,
                        while the casualties within the fort were limited to the loss of one man and one boy. But the
                        obstinate determination of Francis was well known, and it was certain that he had not finally
                        abandoned his purpose of taking the little fort. He had already demonstrated his ability to
                        carry the place, and it was, at the least, likely that he would come again within twenty-four
                        hours, probably with a larger force, and should he do so, the little garrison was not in
                        condition to repel his attack. To remain in the fort, therefore, was certain destruction; but
                        the country was full of savages, and to attempt  a march to Fort
                        Glass, fifteen miles away, which was the nearest available place, the other forts being
                        difficult to reach, was felt to be almost equally hazardous. A council was held, and it was
                        finally determined that the perilous march to Fort Glass must be undertaken at all hazards.
                        Accordingly, not long after nightfall the whole garrison, men, women and children, stealthily
                        left the fort and silently crept away to the south.
                    Sam had seen the dog charge and the escape of the whites into the fort.
                    "What a fool I was!" he exclaimed, "not to stay where I was! We might
                        have got in with the rest of them."
                    "Why can't we go to de fort now, or leastways, as soon as de Injuns goes
                        away?" asked Joe.
                    "They aint going away," said Sam. "They're going to storm the
                        fort,look, they're coming right here for a starting-point, and 'll be on top
                        of us in a minute. Come!don't make any noise, but follow me. Crawl on your hands and
                        knees, and don't raise your heads. Look out for sticks. If you break one, the Indians
                        'll hear it."
                    
                    "Mas' Samdey's Injuns ahead'n us an' a-comin right
                        torge us too. Look dar!"
                    Sam looked, and saw a body of Indians just in front of him coming to reinforce the others. He and
                        his friends were cut off between two bodies of "Lie down and be still," he
                        whispered. "It's all we can doand I'm to blame for it
                    all!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    SAM'S LECTURE.
                    THE people of the fort made no search for Sam and his companions; noy because they cared nothing
                        for them, but simply because they believed them certainly dead. Mr. Hardwicke, himself, had seen
                        Sam start with little Judie towards the fort, before the dog charge was made, and as neither the
                        boys nor Judie had ever reached the gates, he had no doubt whatever that his three children were
                        slain, as was Mrs. Phillips, the only other person who had failed to get inside the stockade.
                        Mr. Hardwicke wished to go out in search of their bodies, but was overruled by his companions,
                        who, knowing that the savages were still in the immediate vicinity, thought it simply a reckless
                        and unnecessary risk, to go hunting for  the bodies of their
                        friends hundreds of yards away, and immediately in front of the place at which the Indians were
                        last seen. The idea was abandoned, therefore, and the fort party marched away in the darkness of
                        a cloudy night, towards Fort Glass. Leaving them to find their way if they can, let us return to
                        Sam and his little band. Seeing the Indians coming towards them, they lay down in the high
                        weeds. The savages hurrying forward to reinforce their friends, passed within a few feet of the
                        young people, but did not see them. The storming of the fort then began, and after watching the
                        evolutions of the Indians for some time, Sam said:
                    "We mustn't stay here. Those red skins are working around this way, and
                        'll find us. Crawl on your hands and knees, all of you, and follow me."
                    "Whar's ye gwine to, Mas' Sam?" asked Joe.
                    "Sh, sk," said Judie. "Don't talk Joe, but
                        do as Brother Sam tells you. Don't you know he always knows what's best?
                        Besides, maybe he hasn't quite found out where he's going yet,
                        himself."
                    
                    But Joe was not as confident of Sam's genius for doing the right thing as Judie was, and
                        so, after crawling for some distance, he again broke silence.
                    "Miss Judie."
                    "What do you want, Joe?"
                    "Does you know whar Mas' Sam's a-takin' us
                        to, an' what he's gwine to do when he gits dar?"
                    "No, of course I don't."
                    "How you know den, dat he's doin' de bes' thing?"
                    But the conversation was terminated by a word from Sam, who said, in a whisper,
                    "Joe, I'll tell you where we're going if you keep
                            talking."
                    "Whar, Mas' Sam?"
                    "Into the hands of the Indians. Keep your mouth shut, if you don't want your
                        hair lifted off your head."
                    As the black boy certainly did not want his hair cut Indian fashion, he became silent at once.
                    When they had travelled in this way until they could no longer hear the yelk of the Indians and
                             the popping of guns at the fort, Sam called a halt. It was now
                        nearly midnight.
                    "Here is a good place to spend the rest of the night," he said, "and
                        we must be as still as we can. We can stay here till to-morrow night, and then we must try to
                        get to Fort Glass. It's about twelve or thirteen miles from here."
                    "Le's go on now, Mas' Sam; I'se afeared to stay
                        here," said the black boy.
                    "We can't," said Sam. "I got scratched in the foot with a
                        stray bullet, just as we went into the thicket there at the fort, and I can't walk. I
                        am a little faint and must lie down."
                    At this little Judie, who fairly idolized Sam, and felt perfectly safe from Indians and
                        everything else when he was with her, was disposed to set up a wail of sorrow and fright. If
                        poor Sam were wounded, he might die, she thought, and the thought was too much for her.
                    Sam soothed her, however, and the poor, tired little girl was soon fast asleep in his arms.
                    "Bring some moss, boys," he said to his companions, and make a bed for Judie
                        here by this log."
                    When he had laid her down, he drew off his  shoe and wrapped the
                        wounded foot in some of the long gray moss which hangs in great festoons from the trees of that
                        region. Joe, with the true negro genius for sleeping, was already snoring at the foot of a tree.
                        Sam quietly called Tom to his side.
                    "Tom," said he, "my foot is bleeding pretty badly, and I
                        can't see till morning to do anything for it. I have wrapped it up in moss, stuffing
                        the softest parts into the wound, and that may stop it after a while. But I may not be able to
                        travel tomorrow night, and if I can't you must leave me here and try to find your way
                        to Fort Glass, with Judie. You must remember that her life will depend on you, and try to do
                        your duty without flinching. Don't try to travel in the daytime. Go on to the south as
                        fast as you can of nights, keeping in the woods and thickets, and as soon as you see a streak of
                        gray in the sky find a good hidingplace and stop. You can get some corn and some sweet potatoes
                        out of any field, but you must eat them raw, as it wont do to make a fire. Now go to sleep. I
                        may be able to travel myself, but if I shouldn't, remember you are a brave
                        man's son,  and must do your duty as a Hardwicke
                        should." And with that he shook the little fellow's hand.
                    After a time Tom, overcome by weariness, fell asleep, but Sam remained awake all night, trying to
                        staunch the flow of blood from his foot. He knew that if he could go on with the others their
                        chance of safety would be vastly greater than without him, and so he was disposed to leave no
                        effort untried to be in a fit condition to travel the next night. When morning came Sam called
                        Tom and Joe, and directed them to examine his wound, into which he could not see very well.
                    "Is the blood of a bright red, as it comes out, or a dark red?" he asked.
                    "Bright," they both said.
                    "Then it comes from an artery," he replied. "Are you sure it is bright
                        red?"
                    The boys were not quite sure.
                    "Does it come in a steady stream or in spurts?" he asked.
                    "It spurts, and stops and spurts again,"said Tom.
                    "It is an artery, then," said Sam. "Look and see if you can find the
                        place it comes from."
                    The boys made a careful examination and at  last found the artery, a
                        small one, which was cut only about half way across.
                    "All right," said Sam. "If that's the case, I think I know
                        how to stop the blood. Put your finger in, and break the artery clear in
                            two."
                    
                    "O Sam, then you'll bleed to death," said Tom.
                    "No I won't. Do as I tell you."
                    "Let me cut it, then. It wont hurt you so much."
                    "No, no, no," cried Sam, staying his hand. "Don't cut it.
                        Tear it, I tell you, and be quick."
                    Tom tore it, and the blood stopped almost immediately. Sam then bound the foot up with strips of
                        cloth torn from his clothing, and as he did so said:
                    "Now I'll tell you both all about this so that you'll know what to do
                        another time. If you know only what to do, you may forget; but if you know why, you'll remember. The blood comes out from the heart to all parts
                        of the body in arteries, and when it leaves the heart it is bright red, because it is clean and
                        pure. Your heart is a sort of forcepump, and every time it beats it forces the blood all over
                        you. The arteries fork and branch out in  every direction, until
                        they terminate in millions of little veins smaller than the finest hairs, and these running
                        together make bigger veins, through which the blood is carried to the lungs. In the veins it
                        flows steadily, because the capillary veins, the ones like hairs, are so small
                        that the spurts can't be felt beyond them. The blood in the veins is thick and dark,
                        because it has taken up all the impurities from the system; but when it gets to the lungs your
                        breath takes up all these and carries them off, leaving the blood pure again for another round.
                        Now the arteries are long elastic tubes, that is to say, they will stretch a little, and fly
                        back again, if you pull them, and when one is cut nearly but not quite off, the contraction
                        keeps it wide open. If it is cut or torn entirely in two, the end draws back, and nine times in
                        ten, if the artery is a small one, the drawing back shuts the end up entirely and the blood
                        stops. But it is better to tear it than to cut it, because when torn the edges are jagged and it
                        shrivels up more. I don't quite understand why, myself, but that is what the surgical
                        books say. When anybody is hurt and bleeding badly, the first thing to do is to find out  whether it is an artery or a vein that's cut. If the
                        blood is bright and comes out in spurts, it's an artery. If it is dark, and flows
                        steadily, it's a vein. If it's an artery and isn't cut quite in two,
                        tear it in two. If that don't stop it, you must make a knot in a handkerchief and then
                        press your finger above the cut in different places till you find where the artery is by the
                        blood stopping. Then put the knot on that place and tie the handkerchief around the limb. You
                        can stop a vein in the same way and more easily, but if it's a vein you must tie the
                        handkerchief so that the cut place will be between it and the heart. You see the blood comes
                        from the heart in the arteries, and goes back towards the heart in the veins, and so to stop an
                        artery you tie inside, and to stop a vein outside of the cut place."
                    I think it altogether probable that Master Sam would have gone into quite a lecture on anatomy
                        and minor surgery, if little Judie had not waked up just then complaining of hunger. What he
                        told the boys, however, is well worth remembering. He took little Judie on his lap and sent the
                        two boys out to find a field of potatoes or corn. When  they came
                        back all four made a breakfast of raw sweet potatoes, drinking water which Tom brought in his
                        wool hat from a creek not very far away. Sam grew stronger during the day, and at night the
                        party set out on their way to Fort Glass. Sam's foot was not painful, but he was afraid
                        of starting the blood again, and so he held it up, walking with a rude crutch which he had made
                        during the day.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    SAM FINDS IT NECESSARY TO THINK.
                    IT was twelve miles from their first encampment to Fort Glass, and if Sam had been strong and
                        well, and the way open, they might easily have made the journey before morning, by carrying
                        little Judie a part of the way. As it was, they had to go through the thickest woods to avoid
                        Indians, and must move cautiously all the time, as they could never know when they might stumble
                        upon a party of savages around a camp-fire, or sleeping under a tree. Those of my readers who
                        live in the far South know what thick woods are in that part of the country, but others may not.
                        The trees grow as close together as they can, and the underbrush chokes up the space between
                        them pretty effectually. Then the great vines of various kinds wind themselves in and out until
                        in  many places they literally stop the way so that a strong man
                        with an axe could not go forward a hundred feet in a week. In other places the thick cane makes
                        an equally impenetrable barrier, and Sam needed all his knowledge of the forest to enable him to
                        work his way southward at night through such woods as those. The little party of wanderers
                        sometimes found themselves apparently walled in in the pitchy darkness, with no possible way out
                        but Sam's instinct, as he called it, which was simply his ability to remember the
                        things he had learned, and to put two facts together to find out a third, always extricated
                        them. Once they found themselves in a swamp, where the water was about eight inches deep. The
                        underbrush, canes and vines made it impossible for them to see any great distance in any
                        direction.
                    "Oh, I know we will never get out of here," whined poor little Judie, ready to
                        sink down in the water.
                    "Yes we will, lady bird," said Sam cheerily.
                    "What's the good of having a big brother if he can't take care of you?
                        Tell me that, will you?  Keep your courage up, little girl, I think
                        I know where we are. Let me think."
                    "I know wha' we is, Mas' Sam," said Joe.
                    "Where, Joe," asked Sam, incredulously.
                    "We'se dun' los',dat's wha' we
                        is," replied Joe.
                    Sam laughed.
                    "I know more than that," said Tom, "I know where
                        we're lost."
                    "Wha', Mas' Tom?" cried Joe, eagerly.
                    "In a swamp," said Tom.
                    "And I know what swamp," said Sam, "which is better still. This swamp
                        is the low grounds of a little creek, and I've been in it before to-night. I
                        don't know just which way to go to get out, because I don't know just what
                        part of the swamp we're in. But if my foot was well I'd soon find
                        out."
                    "How, Mas' Sam?"
                    "I'd climb that sweet gum and look for landmarks."
                    "Lan' marks? what's dem, Mas' Sam? will dey bite?"
                    "No, Joe, I mean I would look around and 
                        
                            "WE'S DUN LOS'DATES WHAT WE IS"
                        
                         find something or other to steer by,a house an open field or
                        something."
                    "I kin climb, Mas' Sam," replied Joe, "an'
                        I'll be up dat dar tree in les'n no time."
                    And up the tree he went as nimbly as any squirrel might. As he went up, Sam cautioned him to make
                        no noise, and not to shout, but to look around carefully, and then to come down and tell what he
                        had seen.
                    "I see a big openin'," said Joe, when he reached the ground again,
                        "an' nigh de middle uv it dey's a big grove, wid a littler one
                        jis' off to de left."
                    "Yes," said Sam, "I thought you'd see that. That's
                        where Watkins's house stood: now which way is it?"
                    "Which-a-way's what, Mas' Sam?"
                    "The opening with the groves in it."
                    "I 'clar' I dunno, Mas' Sam."
                    It had not entered Joe's head to mark the direction, and so he had to climb the tree
                        again. In going up and coming down, however, he wound around the tree two or three times and was
                        no wiser when he returned to the ground than before he began his ascent.
                    
                    "Look, Joe," said Sam. "Do you see that bright star through the
                        trees?"
                    "De brightest one, Mas' Sam?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Yes, 1 sees it."
                    "Well, climb the tree, and when you get to the top, turn your face towards that star.
                        Then see which way the opening is, and remember whether it is straight ahead of you, behind you,
                        or to the right or left."
                    Joe went up the tree again and this time managed to bring down the information that when he
                        looked at the star the opening was on his left.
                    With the knowledge of locality and direction thus gained, Sam was not long in finding his way to
                        firm ground again, and as soon as he did so he selected a hiding-place for the day, as the
                        morning was not at hand.
                    The next night they had fewer difficulties, the woods through which they had to pass being freer
                        from undergrowth than those they had already traversed, and when the third morning broke they
                        were within a mile or two of Fort Glass. Sam thought at first of pushing on at once to the fort,
                             but, seeing "Indian sign" in the shape of
                        some smouldering fires near a spring, he abandoned the undertaking until night should come
                        again, and hid his little company in the woods. Something to eat was the one immediate
                        necessity. They were all nearly famished, and neither corn nor sweet potatoes were to be found
                        anywhere in the vicinity. Sam directed the boys to bring some rushes from the creek bottoms, and
                        peeling these, he and his companions ate the pith, which is slightly succulent and in a small
                        degree nourishing. Sam had learned this fact by accident while out hunting one day, and Sam took
                        care never to forget anything which might be useful. Towards night, when the rushes failed to
                        satisfy their hunger, Sam was puzzling himself over the problem of getting food, when Tom asked
                        him if he knew the name of a singular tree he had seen while out after rushes.
                    "It has the biggest leaves I ever saw," he said, "and they all grow
                        right out of its top. Some of 'em are six feet long, and they've got folds in
                        'em. There aint any limbs to the tree at all."
                    "Where did you see that?" asked Sam eagerly.
                    "Right over there, about a hundred yards."
                    
                    "Good! It's palmetto. I didn't know there was one this far from the
                        sea though. Here, take my big knife and you and Joe go and cut out as much as you can of the
                        soft part just where the leaves come out. It's what they call palmetto cabbage, and
                        it's very good to eat too, I can tell you."
                    The boys, after receiving minute instructions, went to the palmetto-tree and brought away several
                        pounds of the terminal bud. On this the little company made a hearty meal, finding the
                        "cabbage," as it is called, a well-flavored, juicy and tender kind of white
                        vegetable substance, very nourishing and as palatable as cocoanut, which it closely resembles in
                        flavor. Storing what was left in their pockets, they began to prepare for their night's
                        journey to the fort, which they hoped to reach within an hour or two. They were just on the
                        point of starting when a party of Indians, under Weatherford, the great half-breed chief, who
                        was the life and soul of the war, rode across a neighboring field, and settled themselves for
                        supper within a dozen yards of Sam's camp. The sky was overcast with clouds, and so
                        night fell even more quickly than it usually does in Southern latitudes,  where there is almost no twilight at all. Sam made his companions lie down at the
                        approach of the savages, and as soon as it was fairly dark, the little, party crept silently
                        away. Before leaving, however, Sam had heard enough of the conversation between Weatherford and
                        Peter McQueen, the other great half-breed warrior, to know that he could not reach the fort that
                        night. The two halfbreeds talked most of the time in English, and Sam learned that they had a
                        large body of Indians in the vicinity, who were scouring the country around Fort Glass. Sam knew
                        enough of Indian warfare to know that there would be numerous small parties of savage scouts
                        lurking immediately around the fort day and night, for the purpose of picking off any daring
                        whites who might venture outside the gates, and especially any messenger who might attempt to
                        pass from that to any other fortress. He knew, therefore, that for some time to come it would be
                        impossible to reach Fort Glass, and penetrating the woods for a considerable distance he stopped
                        and sat down on a log, burying his face in his hands, and telling his companions not to speak to
                        him, as he wanted to think.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    SAM'S FORTRESS.
                    AM'S companions kept perfectly still. Their reverence for Sam had grown with every foot
                        of their travels, and their confidence in his ability to get out of any difficulty, and
                        ultimately to accomplish his purposes in the face of any obstacle, was now quite unbounded. And
                        so, when he told them it was impossible to reach the fort and that he wanted to think, they
                        patiently awaited the results of his thinking, confident that he would presently hit upon
                        precisely the right thing to do.
                    After a while he raised his head from his hands and said:
                    "Come on, we must get clear away from here before morning;" but he said not a
                        word about  where he was going. His course was now nearly
                        southeast, and just as the day was breaking he stopped and said:
                    "There is the river at last. Now let's go to sleep."
                    They obeyed him unquestioningly, though they had not the faintest idea where they were or what
                        river it was which he had seen a little way ahead. When Sam waked it was nearly noon, and he ate
                        a little of the palmetto cabbage left in his pockets, while the others slept. His face was very
                        pale, however, and he sat very still until his companions aroused themselves. Then he explained.
                    "When I found that we could not get to Fort Glass, the question was, where should we go?
                        Fort Stoddart is probably surrounded by Indians too, and so the only thing to do was to make our
                        way down through the Tensaw Country to Mobile; but that is about eighty or a hundred miles away,
                        and the fact is I am a little sick from my wound. My foot and leg are all swelled up, and
                        I've been having a fever, so that I can't travel much further. It seemed to me
                        that the best thing to do, under  the circumstances, was to find a
                        good hiding-place where it will be easy to get something to eat, and to stay there till I get
                        better, or something turns up, and so I thought of the Alabama River as the very best place,
                        because mussels and things of that kind are better than sweet potatoes, and here we are; now the
                        next thing is to find a hiding-place, and I think I know where one is. It has a' spring
                        by it, too, which is a good thing, for drinking this swamp and creek water will make us all
                        sick. I was all through here on a camp-hunt once, and I remember a place on the other side of
                        the river where two big hollow trees stand right together on top of a sort of bluff. About fifty
                        yards further down the river there is a spring, just under the bluff. We must find the place if
                        we can, to-night, and to do it we must first get across the river. It's so low now we
                        can easily wade it, I think, and Judie can be pushed across on a log."
                    As soon as night fell the plan was put into execution. The river was extremely low at the time,
                        and Sam was confident that by choosing a wide place for their crossing, they could wade the
                        stream easily; but lest there might be a channel 
                        
                            JUDIE ON THE RAFT.
                        
                         too deep for that, he fastened four logs together with grapevines,
                        and putting Judie on this raft bade the two boys tow it over, telling them that if they should
                        find the water too deep for wading at any point, they could easily support themselves by
                        clinging to the logs. They had no difficulty, however, and were soon on the east bank of the
                        stream. Sam's task was a much harder one. The current was very rapid and the bottom too
                        soft for the easy use of his crutch, while his strength was almost gone. His spirit sustained
                        him, however, and after a while he reached the shore. When all were landed, the search began for
                        the hiding-place Sam had described. It proved to be more than a mile higher up the river, and
                        when they found it, the day was breaking. The trees were not hollow, as Sam had supposed. The
                        river bank in that place is in three terraces, and the two great trees stood almost alone on the
                        second one of these. The sandy soil had been gradually washed out from under the great trunks,
                        so that the trees proper began about fifteen feet from the ground, the space below being
                        occupied by a great network of exposed roots, some of them a foot or two in thickness,  and others varying in size all the way down to mere threads. The
                        freshets which had washed the earth away from the roots, had piled a great mass of drift-wood
                        against one side of them. Sam made a careful examination of the place, and then all went to
                        work. The two boys so disposed some of the drift-wood as to make a sort of covered passage from
                        the edge of the bank to the two trees whose roots were interlaced with each other. Sam cut away
                        some of the roots with his jackknife so as to make an entrance, and once inside the circle of
                        outer roots, he was not long in making a roomy hiding-place for the whole party, immediately
                        under the great trees.
                    "We can enlarge our house with our knives whenever we choose," he said,
                        "and if we stay here long enough, we must make Judie a room for herself under the other
                        tree, with a passage leading from this into it."
                    Sam said this to avoid saying something which would have alarmed and distressed the others. In
                        truth he knew himself to be really ill, and believed that he would be much worse before being
                        any better. For this reason he knew they must have  more room than
                        the present hiding-place afforded, and it was his plan to cut another room under the other tree,
                        with a very narrow passage between. "Then," thought he, "if the
                        Indians find us here, as I am afraid they will, they will find only poor sick Sam here in the
                        outer room, and won't think of hunting further." Sam thought he was going to
                        die at any rate, and his only care now was to save the lives of the others. He had made
                        "them gather some mussels at the river, and some green corn in a neighboring field, and
                        he now said to the two boys, "These things must be cooked. It will not do for you to
                        eat them raw any longer. They aren't wholesome that way, and so I've been
                        thinking of a plan for cooking them. The spring is down under the lower bluff, and a fire down
                        there won't make much smoke above the upper banks. We must make one out of drift-wood,
                        but we musn't use any pine. That smokes too much. The fire must be made in the daytime,
                        because at night it would be seen too far. You boys must do the cooking, while I keep a look-out
                        for Indians, and if any come within sight you can both get in here before they discover you, or
                        if they do see you,  they can't find you after you run
                        away from the fire, and they will look for you out in the woods somewhere. Nobody would think of
                        looking here. Now let me tell you how to cook the things. I was at a "clam bake
                        "in New England once, and I know how to make these mussels and corn taste well. You
                        must dig a sort of fireplace in the sand bank and build your fire in there. When it burns away
                        until you have a good bank of coals, you must put down on them a layer of the corn, in the
                        shuck, then a layer of mussels, then a layer of corn, and finally cover them all up with coals
                        and hot ashes, and leave them there for an hour or two, when they will be cooked
                        beautifully."
                    "But Mas' Sam," said Joe.
                    "Well, what is it, Joe?"
                    "How's we gwine to git de fire?"
                    "Well, how do you think, Joe?"
                    "I 'clare I dunno, Mas' Sam, 'thout you got some flints
                        an' punk in your pockets."
                    "No, I have no flints and no punk, Joe, but I'm going to get you some fire when
                        the sun gets straight overhead."
                    "Is you gwine to git it from de sun, Mas' Sam?"
                    
                    "Yes."
                    "What wid, Mas' Sam?"
                    "With water, Joe."
                    "Wid water, Mas' Sam! You'se foolin'. How you gwine to git
                        fire wid water, I'd like to know."
                    "Well, wait and see. I'm not fooling."
                    To tell the truth, Tom was quite as much at a loss as Joe was, to know how Sam could get fire
                        with water; but his confidence in his "big brother," as he called Sam, was too
                        perfect to admit of a doubt or a question. As for Judie, she would hardly have raised her
                        eyebrows if Sam had burned water, or whittled it into dolls' heads before her eyes. She
                        believed in Sam absolutely, and supposed, as a matter of course, that he knew everything and
                        could do anything he liked. But Joe was not yet satisfied that water could be made to assist in
                        the kindling of a fire. He said nothing more, however, but carefully watched all of
                        Sam's preparations.
                    That young gentleman began by tearing a strip of cotton cloth from his shirt, and picking it to
                        pieces. He then gathered from the drift-wood a  number of dry
                        sticks, and broke and split them up very fine.
                    "We must have a few splinters of light-wood," he said; "but after the
                        fire is once started, we mustn't put any more pine on."
                    So saying, he split off a few splinters from a piece of rich heart-pine, which Southern people
                        call "light-wood," because the negroes use it instead of lamps or candles.
                    "Come now," said Sam, "it's nearly noon, and I think I can
                        get fire for you. Go up on top of the drift-pile, Tom, and look out for Indians. If you
                        don't see any we can all go down to the spring together long enough to start a fire.
                        Then I must come back to Judie, and I'll keep a look-out for Indians while you and Joe
                        get the corn on. When you get it on, come back here and wait until it has time to cook. Stop a
                        minute, Tom. Let's understand each other. If the one on the look-out sees Indians, he
                        must let the others know; but it won't do to hollow. Let me see. Can you whistle like a
                        kildee, Tom?"
                    "Yes, or like any other bird."
                    "Can you, Joe?"
                    
                    "I reckon I kin, Mas' Sam," said Joe, who, to prove
                        his powers straightway gave a shrill kildee whistle, which nearly deafened them all.
                    "There, that 'll do, Joe. Well, let's understand then, that if anyone
                        of us sees Indians, he must whistle like a kildee. If the Indians hear it they 'll
                        think nothing of it."
                    Tom went to the look-out, and seeing no savages anywhere, returned, and the whole party, little
                        Judie excepted, proceeded to the spring. Sam then laid his sticks down in a pile, and taking out
                        his watch removed the crystal. This he filled with clear water from the spring, and holding it
                        over the cotton ravellings, moved it up and down until the sunlight, passing through it,
                        gathered itself into a small bright spot on the cotton. Joe, eager to see, thrust his head over
                        Sam's shoulder, and directly between the glass and the sun.
                    "Take your head away, Joe, or I'll have to draw the fire right through
                        it," said Sam, laughing.
                    "Mercy, Mas' Sam, don't do dat. I'se 'feard
                        o' your witches' ways, anyhow," said Joe, drawing  back. The glass was again put in position and the spot of bright
                        sunlight reappeared. Presently a little cloud of smoke rose, and a moment afterwards, the cotton
                        was fairly afire. It was not difficult now to get the light-wood and dry sticks to blazing, and
                        a good fire was soon secured.
                    "Now boys," said Sam, "I'll go back to the drift-pile and
                        keep a look-out. If you hear the kildee call, run in as quickly as you can. When you get the
                        corn and mussels on, and covered up, come back at once."
                    No Indians showing themselves anywhere in the neighborhood, the boys got their dinner on or
                        rather in the fire, and then returned to the root cavern to await
                            the completion of the cooking process. When they were all safely stowed away in their
                        places, Tom gave voice to the curiosity with which he was almost bursting.
                    "Sam," he said, "how did you do that?"
                    "How did I do what, Tom?"
                    "How did you make the sun set the cotton on fire?"
                    "I don't know whether I can make you understand it or not," said Sam,
                        "but I'll try. You  know light always goes in
                        straight lines, if left to itself, don't you?"
                    "No, I didn't know that?"
                    "Yes you did, only you never thought of it. If you want to keep light out of your eyes,
                        you always put your hand between them and the light, because you know the light goes straight
                        and so will not go around your hand."
                    "Yes, that true, and when I want to make a shadow anywhere, I put something right before
                        the light."
                    "Certainly. Well, the rays of the sun all come to us straight, and side by side. They
                        are pretty hot, but not hot enough to set fire to anything that way. But if you can gather a
                        good many of these rays together and make them all shine on one little spot, they will set fire
                        to whatever they fall on. Now a piece of glass or any other thing that you can see through
                        easily,that is, any transparent thing, lets the sunlight through it, and if it
                        is flat on both sides, it doesn't change the directions of the rays. But if both sides
                        are rounded out, or if one side is rounded out and the other side is flat, it turns all the rays
                        a little, and brings them right together in a point  not far from
                        the glass. If the sides are hollowed in instead of bulging out, the rays
                        scatter, and if one side bulges out and the other bulges in, as they do in a watch crystal, one
                        side scatters and the other side collects the rays, and so it is the same as if the glass had
                        been perfectly flat, one side undoes the other's work. Now I have no glass which bulges
                        out on both sides, and none that bulges out on one side and is flat on the other, but my watch
                        crystal bulges out on one side and in on the other. But when I filled it with water, the water
                        being as clear as the glass, it made it flat on top and bulging underneath, and so it gathered
                        the sun's rays together in the light spot you saw, and set fire to the
                        cotton." "Yes, but why did you have to wait till noon?" asked Tom.
                    "Because the glass must be held right across the rays of light, and as I
                        couldn't turn the crystal to either side without spilling the water, I had to use it at
                        noon, when the sun was almost exactly overhead, and its rays came nearly straight down. If I had
                        had a glass rounded out on both sides I could have got fire any time after the sun was  well up in the sky. Now let me tell you what they call all these
                        different kinds of glasses. One that is flat on one side and bulges out on the other is called a
                            convex lens; if it bulges out on both sides it is a double
                            convex lens; if it is hollowed in on one side and flat on the other it is a concave lens; if hollowed in on both sides we call it a double
                            concave lens; and when it is hollowed in on one side and bulged out on the other, as
                        any watch crystal does, it is a concave convex lens''
                    "Where did you learn all that, Sam?" asked Tom.
                    "I learned part of it with father's spectacles, and part out of a book father
                        lent me when I asked him why I couldn't make the bright, hot spot with a pair of
                        near-sighted glasses that I found in one of mother's old work boxes. You see, when
                        people begin to get old, their eyes flatten a little, and so everything they look at seems to be
                        shaved off. They see well enough at a distance, but can't see small things close to
                        them."
                    "Is that the reason pa always looks over his spectacles when he looks at me?"
                        asked Judie.
                    "Yes, little woman. He can't see to read without 
                        his glasses, but he can see you across the room without them, well enough. Well, to remedy this
                        defect, old people wear spectacles with double convex lenses in them. But near-sighted people
                        have exactly the opposite trouble. They can't see things except by bringing them near
                        their eyes, because their eyes are not fiat enough, and so their spectacles are made with double
                        concave lenses. When I asked father about it, he gave me a book that explained it all, and that
                        is where I learned the little I know about it."
                    "The little! I'd like to know what you call a good
                        deal," said Tom. "I never saw anybody that knew half as much as you
                        do."
                    "That is only because we live in a new country, Tom, where there are no very well
                        educated people, and because you don't know how much there is to learn in the world. If
                        these Indians ever get quiet, I hope to learn a good deal more every year than I know now. But
                        it's time to see about our mussel bake. Run to the lookout, Tom, and then we can all go
                        down and bring up the dinner."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    SURPRISED.
                    THE baked corn and mussels made a savory dish, or one which would have been savory enough but for
                        the absence of salt. The boys knew well enough that salt was not to be had, however, and so they
                        made a joke of its absence, and even pretended that they did not like their food salted at any
                        time. Little Judie was so hungry that she cared very little whether food tasted well or not,
                        provided it satisfied her appetite.
                    The rest and the more wholesome food seemed to restore Sam to something like his customary
                        strength during the first ten days of his stay in the "root fortress," as he
                        had named their singular dwelling. His wounded foot got better, though it was still far from
                        well, and, better than all, his  fever left him. As he regained
                        strength he began to lay plans again. To stay where they were was well enough as a temporary
                        device for escaping the savages, but Sam's main purpose now was to get the little
                        people under his charge back to civilization somewhere, and then to do his part in the war
                        between the Indians and whites. He must first find a way to get Tom and Judie and Joe into one
                        of the forts or into some safe town, and how to do this was the problem. He was unwilling to
                        take them away from their present pretty secure hiding-place until he could decide upon some
                        definite plan offering a reasonable prospect of escape. If he could have known as much as we now
                        know of the movements of the savages, he would have had little difficulty. The larger part of
                        the Indians had left the peninsula now forming Clarke County, and crossed to the south-eastern
                        shore of the Alabama river,the side on which Sam's root fortress stood, and if he could
                        have known this, he would have made an effort to cross the river again and reach Fort Glass. The
                        chief difficulty in the way of this undertaking would have been that of crossing the river,
                        which was  now swollen by recent rains. He knew nothing about the
                        matter, however, and as Fort Mims, the first point attacked by the savages, was on the
                        south-east side of the river, he reasoned that having afterwards crossed to Clarke County the
                        Indians would not again cross to the south-east side in any considerable force. In this, as we
                        know, he was mistaken, and the errorled him into some danger, as we shall see. Thinking the
                        matter over, he decided that his first plan of a march down through the Tensaw Country to the
                        neighborhood of Mobile would be the safest and best thing to undertake. He was unwilling,
                        however, to begin it with his companions without making a preliminary reconnoissance.
                        Accordingly he explained the plan to Tom and Joe, and said:
                    "I'm going to-night down towards old Fort Mims, to see if the country is pretty
                        free from Indians, and to find out what I can about the chance of getting away from here.
                        I'll leave you here with Judie, and you must be extra careful about exposing
                        yourselves. You've corn and mussels and sweet potatoes enough already cooked, to last
                        you a week, and I'll probably be back before  that; if not
                        you must eat them raw till I do come: it won't do to build a fire while I'm
                        away." After giving minute directions for their guidance during his absence, Sam put a
                        sweet potato in one pocket and an ear of corn in the other, and set out on his journey, walking
                        with a stout stick, having discarded his crutch as no longer necessary. How far he walked that
                        night, I am unable to say, his course being a very circuitous one. The moon rose full, soon
                        after dark, and shone so brightly that Sam dared not cross the fields, but skirted around them
                        keeping constantly in the woods and the edges of canebrakes. The next night and the next he
                        continued his journey, though he found the country full of Indians. He saw their
                        "sign" everywhere, and now and then saw some of the Indians themselves. The
                        fourth evening found him so lame (his foot having swelled and become painful again) that he
                        could not possibly go on. He had already gone far enough to discover that the country on that
                        side of the river was too full of Indians for him to carry his little party safely through it,
                        and so he determined to work his way back to the root fortress, and try the  other side. Seeing a house in a field near by the place in which he had spent the
                        day, he resolved to visit it for the purpose of bringing away any article he could find which
                        might be useful to him in his effort to provide for his little band. In a grove near the house
                        he found a horse,a young and powerful animal, and as he feared his lameness would not permit him
                        to reach his root fortress again on foot, he determined to ride the animal in spite of the fact
                        that on horseback he would be in much greater danger of discovery by the Indians than on foot.
                        The horse had a bridle on, and had evidently escaped, probably during a skirmish, from its white
                        or red master.
                    Sam tied him in the grove, and went on to the house, which had been sacked and partially burned,
                        Looking around in the moonlight, Sam discovered a hatchet, and, in the corner of what had once
                        been a store-house, the remains of a barrel of salt. These were two valuable discoveries. The
                        hatchet would be of great service to him not only in the root fortress but even more in forcing
                        a pathway through the canebrakes when he should again cross the river and try to reach one of
                        the forts.  The salt he must have at any cost, and as he had no bag
                        he made one by ripping off the sleeve of his coat and tying its ends with strips of bark. He had
                        just filled it, and tied up the ends when, hearing a noise, he turned, and saw two Indians
                        within six feet of him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    CONFUSED.
                    THE two Indians who had startled Sam, were on the point of entering the old dwelling house, and
                        seemingly were unaccompanied by any others. Sam happened fortunately to be standing in shadow,
                        and they passed without seeing him. But what was he now to do? He was at the back of the house,
                        and a high picket fence around the place made it impossible for him to escape by the front-way,
                        towards which the savages had gone. Looking through the door-way, he saw that the pair had
                        passed through the room nearest him and into the adjoining apartment. He knew that other Indians
                        were in the neighborhood, and that a dozen of them might wander into the enclosure at any
                        moment. Resolving upon a bold manuvre, he stepped lightly into the rear room of the house, and
                        climbed up inside the wide  mouthed chimney. Whether the Indians
                        heard him or not he never knew, but at any rate he was none too soon in hiding, for he had
                        hardly cleared the fireplace in his ascent when four or five savages came into the room and
                        began to demolish the few articles of furniture left in the house. They had got whiskey
                        somewhere, and having drank freely were even noisier than white men get under the influence of
                        strong drink. They remained but a short time, when, setting fire again to the half-burned house,
                        they left the place yelling as savages only can. Sam escaped as soon as he could from his
                        uncomfortable quarters and made his way to the grove. Mounting his horse he rode away in the
                        direction of the root fortress, keeping in the woods as well as he could and taking every
                        precaution to avoid coming suddenly upon savages.
                    As he rode only at night, the Indians' almost universal habit of building camp-fires
                        wherever they stop for the night, helped him to avoid them. When morning came he sought a place
                        deep in the forest, when he turned his horse loose to graze all day, while he slept at some
                        distance from the animal, so that the noise of the beast's stamping  and browsing might not lead to the discovery of his own
                        whereabouts.
                    As the evening of the second day of his return came round, Sam found himself genuinely sick. His
                        foot and leg were much inflamed, and the excitement of the preceding night, together with his
                        continued exposure to the drenching dews of the Southern autumn, had brought back his fever with
                        increased violence, and a very brief experiment convinced him that he could not go further that
                        night. He mounted his horse, but had ridden less than a mile when he felt a giddiness coming
                        over him and found it necessary to abandon the effort to ride that night. He could hardly see,
                        and the pain in his head, neck, back and limbs was excruciating. He dismounted and threw himself
                        down on the ground without taking the trouble even to separate himself from his horse. The truth
                        is, Sam had what they call in South Carolina country fever, a high type of malarial fever, which
                        stupefies and benumbs its victim almost as soon as it attacks him. The dews in the far South,
                        especially in the fall, are so heavy that the water will drip and even stream off the foliage of
                        the trees  all night, and Sam had been drenched every night during
                        both his journeys, having no fire by which to warm himself or dry his clothes. Even without this
                        drenching the poisonous exhalations of the swamps and woods would doubtless have given him the
                        fever, and as it was he had it very severely. He laid down again almost under his
                        horse's feet and fell into a sort of stupor. He knew that his fever required treatment,
                        and that it would rapidly sap his strength, and the thought came to him: What if he should die
                        there and never get back to the tree fortress? He was too sick to care for himself, but the
                        thought of little Judie haunted his dreams, and he was seized with a semi-delirious impulse to
                        remount his horse and ride straight away to the hiding-place in which he had left her,
                        regardless of Indians, and of everything else. He dreamed a dozen times that he was doing this,
                        and finally, when morning came, he forgot all about the danger of travelling by daylight, and
                        mounting his horse in a confused, halfdelirious way, rode straight out of the woods towards the
                        open country, which he had hitherto so carefully avoided.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    WEATHERFORD.
                    THE fiercest and most conspicuous leader of the Indians in this war was William Weatherford, or
                        the Red Eagle, as the Indians called him. He is commonly spoken of in history as a half-breed,
                        but he was in reality almost a white man, with just enough of the Indian in his composition to
                        add savage emotions to Scotch intellect and Scotch perseverance. His father was a Scotchman, and
                        his mother a half-breed Indian Princess. He was brought up in the best civilization the border
                        had, his father being wealthy. He became very rich himself, and, despite his savage instincts,
                        which were always strong, his wealth, in land and slaves, made him a conservative. At first he
                        favored a war with the whites, but a calmer afterthought led him to  desire peace, and when he found that the tempest he had helped to stir up would not subside
                        at his bidding, he began casting about for a way of escape. He was a man of unquestionable
                        genius; a soldier of rare strategic ability; an orator of the truest sort, and his courage in
                        danger was simply sublime. Such a man was likely to be of great value to the Indians in their
                        approaching war, and when they began to suspect his loyalty to the nation, they watched him
                        narrowly. Finding it impossible to postpone the war, and not wishing to sacrifice his fine
                        property near the Holy Ground, he made a secret journey to the residence of his half brother
                        David Tait and his brother John Weatherford, who lived among what were known as the
                        "peacefuls," namely, the Indians disposed to remain at peace with the whites
                        in any event. His brothers, hearing his story, advised him to bring his negroes, horses and
                        movable property generally, together with his family, to their plantations, and to remain there,
                        inactive and neutral, during the struggle. When he returned to his residence for the purpose of
                        doing this, however, he found that the hostile Indians had seized his family and his  negroes as hostages, and, under the compulsion of their threat
                        that they would kill his wife and children if he should dare to remain at peace, he joined in
                        the war against the whites, becoming the fiercest of all the chieftains. He planned and led the
                        assault upon Fort Mims, and was everywhere foremost in all the fighting. When the Creeks were
                        utterly routed at the battle of the Holy Ground a month or so after the time of which I am
                        writing, General Jackson issued a proclamation refusing terms of peace to the chiefs until
                        Weatherford, whom he had determined to put to death, should be brought to him, alive or dead.
                        Weatherford hearing of this, although he was safe beyond the borders and might have easily made
                        his escape to Florida, as his comrade Peter McQueen did, rode straightway to Jackson's
                        head-quarters, where he said to the commander who had set a price upon his head:
                    "I am Weatherford. I have come to ask peace for my people. I am in your power. Do with
                        me as you please. I am a soldier. I have done the white people all the harm I could. I have
                        fought them and fought them bravely. If I  yet had an army I would
                        fight and contend to the last. But I have none. My people are all gone. I can now do no more
                        than weep over the misfortunes of my nation."
                    Jackson was so impressed with the sublime courage and the dignity of the man upon whose head he
                        had set a price, that he treated him at once with chivalrous consideration. He told him that the
                        only terms upon which the Indians could secure peace were unconditional submission and uniform
                        good conduct; but "as for yourself," he said, "if you do not like the
                        terms, no advantage shall be taken of your present surrender. You are at liberty to depart and
                        resume hostilities when you please. But if you are taken then, your life shall pay the forfeit
                        of your crimes."
                    Weatherford calmly folded his arms and replied; "I desire peace for no selfish reasons,
                        but that my nation may be relieved from its sufferings; for independent of the other
                        consequences of the war, my people's cattle are destroyed and their women and children
                        destitute of provisions. I may well be addressed in such language now. There was a time when I
                        had a, choice and could  have answered you. I have none now. Even
                        hope has ended. Once I could animate my warriors to battle. But I cannot animate the dead. My
                        warriors can no longer hear my voice. Their bones are at Talladega, Tallashatche, Emuckfaw and
                        Tohopeka. I have not surrendered myself thoughtlessly. While there were chances of success I
                        never left my post nor supplicated peace. But my people are gone, and I now ask peace for my
                        nation and myself. On the miseries and misfortunes brought upon my country, I look back with the
                        deepest sorrow, and wish to avert still greater calamities. If I had been left to contend with
                        the Georgia army, I would have raised my corn on one bank of the river and fought them on the
                        other. But your people have destroyed my nation. General Jackson, you are a brave man,I am
                        another. I do not fear to die. But I rely upon your generosity. You will exact no terms of a
                        conquered and helpless people but those to which they should accede. Whatever they may be it
                        would. now be folly and madness to oppose them. If they are opposed, you shall find me among the
                        sternest enforcers of  obedience. Those who would still hold out
                        can only be influenced by a mean spirit of revenge. To this they must not and shall not
                        sacrifice the last remnant of their country. You have told us what we may do and be safe. Yours
                        is a good talk, and my nation ought to listen to it. They shall listen to
                            it."*
                        
                            * For these speeches of
                            Weatherford's and for other historical details I am indebted to a valuable and
                            interesting book, "Romantic Passages in South Western History," by A. B.
                            Mull, Mobile, S. H. Goetzsl & Co. publishers, which is now, unfortunately out of
                            print. The speeches are well authenticated I believe.
                    
                    Jackson was too generous and too brave a man to remain unmoved under such a speech from a man who
                        thus placed his own life in jeopardy for the sake of his people. He bade the chieftain return
                        home, and promised peace to his people, a promise faithfully kept to this day. All this however
                        occurred nearly two months after the time of which I write, and it is introduced here merely by
                        way of explaining the things which happened to Sam on the morning of the rash resumption of his
                        journey.
                    This man Weatherford, the fiercest enemy the  whites had, with a
                        party of about twenty-five Indians, bivouacked, the night before, in the edge of the woods, and
                        when Sam mounted his horse that morning the Indians were lying asleep immediately in his path as
                        he rode blindly out of the thicket. The first intimation he had of their presence was a grunt
                        from a big savage who lay almost under his horse's feet. Coming to himself in an
                        instant, Sam took in the whole situation at a glance, and with the rapidity and precision which
                        people who are accustomed to the dangers and difficulties of frontier life always acquire, he
                        mentally weighed all the facts bearing upon the question of what to do, and decided. He saw
                        before him the savages, rising from the ground at sight of him. He saw their horses browsing at
                        some little distance from them, He saw a rifle, on which hung a powder-horn and a bullet-pouch,
                        standing against a bush. He saw that he had already aroused the foe, and, that he must stand a
                        chase. His first impulse was to turn around and ride back, in the direction whence he had come;
                        but in that direction lay the thicket through which he could not ride rapidly, and so if he
                        should  take that course, he would lose the advantage which he
                        hoped to gain from the fleetness of his particularly good horse. Besides, in the thicket he must
                        of course leave a trail easily followed. Just beyond the group of Indians he saw the open
                        fields, and he made up his mind at once that he would push his horse into a run, dash right
                        through the camp of the savages, pick up the convenient rifle if possible, and reaching the open
                        country make all the speed he could. In this he knew he would have an advantage, inasmuch as he
                        would get a good many hundred yards away before the savages could catch and mount their horses
                        for the purpose of pursuing him, and he even hoped that they, seeing how far he was in advance
                        of them, would abandon the idea of pursuit altogether. All this thinking, and weighing of
                        chances, and deciding was the work of a single half second, and the plan, once formed, was
                        executed instantly. Without pausing or turning he pushed his horse at a full run through the
                        group of savages, receiving a glancing blow from a war club and dodging several others as he
                        went. He succeeded in getting possession of the rifle which stood by the bush, and reached the
                             field before a gun could be aimed at him. It was now his
                        purpose to get so far ahead as to discourage pursuit, and with this object in view he continued
                        to urge his horse forward at his best speed. This hope was a vain one, as he soon discovered.
                        The Indians, infuriated by his boldness, mounted their horses and gave chase immediately. Sam
                        had an excellent habit, as we know, of keeping his wits about him, and of preparing carefully
                        for difficulties likely to come. The first thing to be done was to escape, if possible, and so
                        he continued to press his high-spirited colt forward, while he debated the probabilities of
                        being overtaken, and discussed with himself the resources at his command if the savages should
                        come up with him. He was armed now, at any rate, and if running should prove of no avail, he
                        could and would sell his life very dearly. Indeed the possession of the rifle roused all the
                        spirit of battle there was in him, and great as the odds were against him, he was sorely tempted
                        to pause long enough to shoot once at least. He remembered Tom and Judie and Joe, however, and
                        their dependence upon him for guidance and protection, and for their sake more than  for his own, suppressed the impulse and continued his flight. The
                        Indians were nearly half a mile behind him, and, as nearly as he could tell, were not gaining
                        upon him very rapidly. His colt seemed equal to a long continued race, and as yet showed no sign
                        of faltering or fatigue. The question had now resolved itself, Sam thought, into one of
                        endurance. How long the Indians would continue a pursuit in which he, had the advantage of half
                        a mile the start, he had no way of determining, but that his horse's endurance was as
                        great at least as their perseverance, he had every reason to hope.
                    Just as he had comforted himself with this thought, a new danger assailed him. One of the
                        Indians, it seemed, taking advantage of a minute knowledge of the country, had saved a
                        considerable distance by riding through a strip of woods and cutting off an angle. When Sam
                        first caught sight of him, coming out of the woods, the savage was within a dozen yards of him,
                        and evidently gaining upon him at every step. Sam's horse was a fleet one, but that of
                        the Indian was apparently a thoroughbred, whose speed remained nearly as  great after a mile's run as at the start. Knowing the Indians'
                        skill in shooting while riding at full speed, Sam leaned as far a.s he could to one side, so
                        that as little as possible of his person should be exposed to his pursuer's aim. He
                        continued to press his horse too, but the savage gained steadily. Finding at last that he must
                        shortly be overtaken, Sam resolved upon a bold manuvre, by which to kill his foremost pursuer.
                        Seizing the hatchet he had brought away from the house, he suddenly stopped his horse, and, as
                        the Indian came alongside, aimed a savage blow at his head.
                    "Don't you know me, Sam?" said the Indian in good English, dodging the
                        blow. "I'm Weatherford. If I'd wanted to kill you I might have done
                        so a dozen times in the last five minutes. You know I don't want to kill you, though you're the only white man on earth I'd let go. But the
                        others will make an end of you if they catch you. Ride on and I'll chase you. Turn to
                        the left there and ride to the bluff. I'll follow you. There's a gully through
                        the top. Ride down it as far as you can and jump your horse over the cliff. It's nearly
                        fifty feet high, and may kill you, but it's  the only way.
                        The other warriors are coming up and they'll kill you sure if you don't jump.
                        Jump, and I'll tell 'em I chased you over."
                    Sam knew Weatherford well, and he knew why the blood-thirsty chief wished to spare him if he
                        could, for Sam had rescued Weatherford once from an imminent peril at great risk to himself,
                        though the story is too long to be told here. Whether or not there is nobleness enough in the
                        Indian character to make the savage remember a benefit received, I am sure I cannot say, but
                        Weatherford was three-fourths white, and with all his ferocity in war, history
                        credits him with more than one generous impulse like that by which Sam was now profiting. The
                        two rode on, Weatherford pretending to be in hot pursuit, shooting occasionally and yelling at
                        every leap of his horse. The bluff towards which they rode was probably a hundred feet high, and
                        was washed at its base by a deep but sluggish creek, on the other side of which lay a densely
                        wooded swamp. Through the top of the bluff, however, was a sort of fissure or ravine washed by
                        the flow of water during the rainy season, and where it terminated the height of its 
                        
                            THE PRRILOUS LEAP.
                        
                         mouth above the stream was not more than forty or fifty feet. Down
                        this gully Sam-rode furiously, so that his horse might not be able to refuse the leap, which was
                        a frightful one. Coming to the edge of the precipice with headlong speed, the animal could not
                        draw back but plunged over with Sam sitting bolt upright on his back. Riding back to the top of
                        the bank Weatherford met his warriors.
                    "Where is he?" asked the foremost;
                    "His body is down there in the creek. I drove him over the
                        precipice," said the chief with wellfeigned delight.*
                        
                            * This incident of the leap over the
                            precipice is strictly historical, himself, on the 23d of December, 1813, after the battle of
                            Tohopeka, escaped a body of dragoons in a precisely similar manner. A still more remarkable
                            leap was that of Major Samuel McCullock, on the 2d of September 1777, over a precipice fully
                            300 feet high near Wheeling, West Virginia. He jumped over on horseback, thinking such a
                            death preferable to savage torture, but singularly enough, both he and his horse escaped
                            unhurt.
                    
                    His purpose evidently, was to satisfy the warriors that Sam was certainly killed, so that they
                        might pursue him no further. Whether he was  yet alive or not,
                        Weatherford himself had no means of knowing. The last he had seen of him was as he went over the
                        precipice, sitting bolt upright on his horse, grasping his rifle and looking straight ahead. He
                        heard a splash in the water below, after which everything was still.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    WEARY WAITING.
                    THE days seemed very long to Tom and Joe and little Judie after Sam left on his journey. They had
                        nothing to do but to sit still in their corners among the roots all day, and time always drags
                        very slowly when people are doing nothing. Their provisions, as we know, were already
                        cooked,enough of them at least, to last a week, and before Sam left he had made them bring more
                        than a bushel of sweet potatoes and all the corn they could find which was still soft enough to
                        eat, and store it away for use if his return should be delayed in any way. The result was that
                        their legs got no stretching, and they became moody, dispirited and unhappy before the second
                        day of Sam's absence had come to an end. They found doing nothing the hardest and the
                             dullest work they ever had done in their lives. Joe managed to
                        sleep most of the time, but Tom was nervous, and poor little Judie, without Sam to depend upon,
                        grew low-spirited and began to fear all sorts of evil things. Finally Sam's week was up
                        and Sam had not appeared. The little people were now fairly frightened. What had become of him?
                        they wondered. Had he fallen into the hands of the Indians? And if so, what were they to do now?
                        They had never before known how dependent they were upon him. Even during his absence they had
                        been regulating their lives by his minute instructions, and depending upon him for guidance
                        after he should return. But what if he should never return? And why hadn't he come
                        already? These thoughts were too much for them. Judie sat in her corner brooding over her
                        trouble, and crying a little now and then. Joe was simply frightened, and his eyes grew bigger
                        and rounder than ever. Tom was sustained in part by the thought that the burden of
                        responsibility was now on him, and so he suppressed all manifestations of uneasiness, as well as
                        he could, and gave himself up to the duty of studying the 
                        situation, calculating his resources and trying to decide what was the best thing to be done if
                        Sam should not come back at all. He hit upon several excellent ideas, but made up his mind that
                        before trying to put any of them into practice he would wait at least a fortnight longer for
                        Sam's return. Their stock of provisions, eaten raw, would last much longer than that,
                        and the fields were full of sweet potatoes, wherefore he wisely thought it best not to lose any
                        chance of having Sam to do the thinking and planning. He was so anxious for his
                        brother's return that he spent the greater part of his time on the drift-pile where he
                        had built himself a little observatory, so arranged that he could see in every direction without
                        the possibility of being seen in his turn.
                    Sitting there in his look-out, watching for Sam, he had time to think of many things. His
                        thinking was not always wise, as a matter of course, but for a boy of his age it did very well,
                        certainly, and one day he hit upon a really valuable idea.
                    The way it came about was this. He fell into a reverie, and remembered the happy old days at
                        home, and one day in particular, when he was  busy all day making a
                        little wagon in which to give Judie a ride, and he remembered how very short that day seemed,
                        although it was in June. Just then it popped into his head to think that there was a reason for
                        everything, and that that day had seemed so short only because he had been very busy as its
                        hours went by. If he had known what "generalization" means, he would have
                        generalized this truth as follows:
                    "Time passes rapidly with busy people." He did nothing of the kind, however. He
                        only thought.
                    "If poor little Judie had something to keep her busy all the time, she wouldn't
                        be so miserable."
                    And so he cudgelled his brains to invent some plan or other by which to set Judie at work and
                        keep her at it all the time.
                    When he returned to the fortress towards night, he said to the little woman; "Judie, I
                        reckon poor Sam's foot is troubling him again, and that's the reason he
                        hasn't got back yet. He'll work along slowly and get here after a while, but
                        I'm afraid he'll be dreadfully tired and sick when  he comes. We must have a good soft bed ready for him so that he can get a good
                        rest."
                    To this Judie assented, though in her heart she feared she should never see Sam again, as indeed
                        Tom did too, though neither would admit the fact to the other.
                    "Now I've been thinking," said Tom, "that it wont do, if he
                        comes back half sick, to let him lie on green moss with all the outside on. Let me show
                        you."
                    And taking a strand of the long moss he scraped the greenish gray outside off, leaving a black
                        strand like a horse hair.
                    "There," he said, "Sam told me once that it's the soft
                        outside part that holds water, while the inside is dry almost always. Now why can't we
                        scrape the outside off of a great deal of moss and have the dry inside ready for Sam to sleep on
                        when he comes back? It'll surprise him and he'll be glad too. He never cared
                        for himself much, but he'll be glad to see that we care for him."
                    The plan pleased little Judie wonderfully well. She was always delighted to do anything for Sam,
                        and now that she was uneasy about him, and kept  thinking of him as
                        dead or dying or sick somewhere, and could hardly keep her tears back, nothing could have
                        pleased her so well as to work for his comfort. Tom and Joe went out after dark, and brought in
                        a large lot of moss, and the next morning all went to work, Judie made very little progress with
                        her scraping, but she kept steadily at it, and it served its purpose in making her less
                        miserable than before. The days passed more rapidly to Tom and Joe, too, and the whole party
                        grew more cheerful under the influence of work. It was now ten days, however, since Sam had gone
                        away, and his non-appearance was really alarming. When work stopped for the night, the thought
                        of Sam was uppermost in the minds of all three, and for the first time they talked freely of the
                        matter.
                    Tom was disposed to cheer himself by cheering the others, and so he explained:
                    "It's about forty-five miles to where Fort Mims stood, so Sam told me, and he
                        said he might go nearly that far, if he didn't see Indians. If he went only thirty-five
                        miles it would take him four or five nights; say five nights, and five more to  come back would make ten. But may be his foot got sore, or Indians
                        got in the way, and so it has taken him longer than he thought. I don't think we ought
                        to be uneasy even if he should stay two weeks in all."
                    That was all very well as a theory, and true enough too, but Tom was uneasy, nevertheless, and so
                        were Joe and Judie. The worst of it was that none of them could hide the fact. The eleventh day
                        came, and with it came an excitement. Tom was the first to wake, and without waiting for the
                        others, he proceeded to make his breakfast off an ear of raw corn, which was almost hard enough
                        to grind, and altogether too hard to be eaten as green corn at any well-regulated table. Tom ate
                        it, however, having nothing better, and when Judie waked he offered her a softer ear, which he
                        had carefully selected and laid aside. Judie tried but couldn't eat it. She was faint
                        and almost sick, and found it impossible to swallow the raw corn.
                    "Poor little sister," said Tom. "If I had any fire I'd roast
                        a potato for you to-day anyhow, but the fire's all out and I can't."
                    
                    "Mas' Tom!" said Joe, "I'll tell you what! I dun see
                        a heap o' fox grapes down dar by de creek, an' I'se gwine to git some
                        for Miss Judie quicker'n you kin count ten." And so saying Joe ran first to
                        the look-out, to make a preliminary reconnoisance. The boys rarely ever left the trees during
                        the daytime, and when they did so they were careful first to satisfy themselves that there were
                        no savages in the neighborhood. The creek, of which Joe spoke, emptied into the river a short
                        distance above the root fortress, and, along its banks was a dense mass of undergrowth, which
                        skirted the river below, all the way to the driftpile. Joe had seen the grapes from the
                        look-out, and had planned an excursion after them. He could follow the river bank to the creek,
                        keeping in the bushes and moving cautiously, and if any Indians should appear he could retreat
                        in the same way, without discovery. Tired of raw corn and sweet potatoes, the grapes had tempted
                        him sorely, and it only needed Judie's longing for a change of diet to induce him, to
                        make this foraging expedition.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X.
                    FIGHTING FIRE.
                    BEFORE proceeding to relate the incidents which follows, it is necessary to explain a little more
                        fully the arrangement of the root fortress and the drift-pile. The two trees, which were
                        enormous ones, had originally grown as close together as they could, and their roots had
                        interlaced beneath the soil. The sand in which they grew having been gradually washed away,
                        their great masses of roots were exposed for about fifteen feet below the original level of the
                        soil and as they spread out they made two circles (one running a foot or two into the other), of
                        about twelve or fifteen feet in diameter. Inside of this circle of great roots, the roots were
                        mostly small, and the boys had cut them away with their knives, leaving just enough of them to
                        stop up all the  holes and obscure the view from without The
                        drift-pile, or hammock, as it is sometimes called at the South, had been years in forming, being
                        driftwood which had floated down the river during winter and spring freshets, and as it had
                        lodged against the trees it lay only on their upper side, where it was piled up into a
                        perpendicular wall nearly twenty feet high. Thence it stretched away up the river for a hundred
                        yards or more. Now the only entrance big enough to admit a person into the root fortress was on
                        the side next to the drift, and it opened only into an alley-way which the boys had partly found
                        and partly made through the drift. This alley-way led past several little aisles running out to
                        the right and left for a dozen yards or so,aisles formed by the irregular piling of the logs on
                        top of each other. In the fortress there were a dozen places at least, where the big roots were
                        sufficiently wide apart to admit a grown man easily, but the boys had left the smaller roots
                        which covered these gaps undisturbed, and cut only the one entrance. After cutting that on the
                        side next the hammock, they had moved some of the drift so as to close up the sides of the  entrance and make it open only into the alley-way. All this had
                        been done under Sam's supervision, and as a result of his prudence and fore thought.
                    Joe had been gone nearly half an hour when he burst suddenly into the chamber in which the others
                        were. His hands were full of the wild grapes, but of those he was evidently not thinking. His
                        face was of that peculiar hue which black faces assume when if they were white faces they would
                        grow pale; and his lips, usually red, were of an ashy brown. His eyes were of the shape of
                        saucers, and seemed not much smaller. He gasped for breath in an alarming way, and Tom saw that
                        the poor fellow was frightened almost out of his wits.
                    "What's the matter Joe? Tell me quick," said the younger boy.
                    "O Mas' Tom, we'se dun surrounded. I was jest a-gittin' de
                        grapes when I seed a'most a thousand Injuns a-comin,' an' I dun run
                        my life a'most out a-gittin' here. Dey did not see me, but I seed dem,
                        an' I tell you dey's de biggest Injuns you ever did see. I 'clar
                        dey's mos' as tall as trees."
                    "How many of 'em are there, Joe?" asked Tom standing up.
                    
                    "I couldn't count 'em e'zactly, Mas' Tom, but I
                        reckon dey's not less'n a thousand of 'em,maybe two thousan'
                        for all I know."
                    "Where are they, and what were they doing?" asked Tom; but before Joe could
                        answer, the voices of the Indians themselves indicated their whereabouts, and Tom discerned that
                        they were disagreeably close to his elbow.
                    Seeking a place in which to cook their breakfast the savages had selected the corner formed by
                        the root fortress and the drift-pile as a proper place for a fire, and were now breaking up
                        sticks with which to start one. They were just outside the fortress, and either of the boys
                        could have touched them by pushing his arm out between the roots. Tom motioned the others to
                        keep absolutely silent, and going a little way into the hammock, through the passage way he
                        managed to find a place from which he could see the intruders. He soon discovered that
                        Joe's account of them was slightly exaggerated in two important particulars. They were
                        only ordinary Indians, neither larger nor smaller than grown Indians usually are, and instead of
                        a thousand there were but three of them in all.
                    
                    But three, fully grown Indians were enough to justify a good deal of apprehension, and if they
                        should discover the party in the tree, Tom knew very well they would make very short work of
                        their destruction. He crept back to the tree therefore and again cautioned Joe and Judie, in a
                        whisper, not to speak or make any other noise. Then he returned to his place of observation and
                        watched the Indians. They soon made a crackling fire and proceeded to broil some game they had
                        killed, this and the eating which followed occupied perhaps an hour, during which Tom made
                        frequent journeys to the little room, nominally for the purpose of cautioning the others to keep
                        still, but really to work off some portion of his uneasiness, which was growing with every
                        moment. He was terrified at first upon general principles, as any other boy of eleven years old
                        would have been. Then he was afraid that the Indians would by some accident, lean something
                        against the curtain of small roots between two other big trees, and that the curtain might not
                        be strong enough to support it, in which event their hiding-place would be discovered at once.
                        He was afraid, too,  that some slight noise inside the fortress
                        might catch the uncommonly quick ears of the Indians.
                    All these were dangers well worth considering; but now a new, and much greater danger began to
                        show itself. The drift was largely composed of light wood, and from his hiding-place Tom could
                        see that the fire built by the trees had communicated itself to the hammock, and that the flames
                        were rapidly spreading. The danger now was that the fire would burn into the alley-way and so
                        cut off retreat from the fortress, and if so those inside would be burned alive. Quitting his
                        place of observation therefore, he established himself as a sentry in the alley-way, having
                        determined, if the fire should approach the passage, to take Joe and Judie out of the fortress
                        and into one of the aisles near the farther edge of the drift-pile. Having begun to plan he saw
                        all the possibilities of the case and tried to provide for all. He knew that if the wind should
                        drive the flames into the drift the whole pile would be destroyed in a very brief time, but in
                        that case, he reasoned, the black smoke of the resinous pine would make it impossible for the
                        Indians to see very far in that direction,  and so he resolved, if
                        the worst came, to lead his companions out of the upper end of the hammock, into the bushes and
                        so escape to the creek, where he hoped to find a hiding-place of some sort. He had got this far
                        in his planning when he heard Judie cough, and stepping quickly into the room found it full of
                        smoke. Seeing that to stay there was to suffocate, he beckoned his companions to follow, and
                        stepping lightly they passed down the alley-way and sat down in one of the aisles, behind a
                        great sycamore log which ran across the pile. Peeping over this log Tom saw the three Indians
                        shoulder their guns and walk away. He ran at once to the look-out, and though the smoke almost
                        blinded him he observed all their movements. He wanted them away speedily, so that he and Joe
                        might extinguish the fire if that were still possible, and as every minute served to increase
                        the difficulty and lessen the chances of doing so, the loitering of the savages seemed
                        interminable. They stopped first to drink at the spring. Then they amused themselves by throwing
                        sticks, and pebbles and shells at a turtle which was sunning himself on a log in the stream.
                        Then they stopped  to examine the track of a turkey or of some
                        animal, in the sand, and it really seemed to Tom that they did not mean to go away at all.
                    All things have an end, however, and even the stay of disagreeable visitors cannot last always.
                        The three savages finally disappeared a mile down the river, and Tom, after scanning the
                        surrounding country and satisfying himself that there were no others in the immediate
                        neighborhood, hurried to the place where Joe and Judie were hidden.
                    "They've gone at least," he said, "and now Joe, we must put
                        this fire out, if we can. Judie, you stay here, and if you find the smoke bothers you, go
                        further down the alley that way. Don't try to stay if the smoke comes."
                    How to stop the fire was the problem. Fortunately there was very little wind, and what there was
                        blew chiefly from up the river. The flames had spread over a considerable space, however, and
                        the boys had hardly anything with which to work.
                    They carried water in their hats from the river, which was only a few yards away, now that it had
                        risen to the bottom of the second bank.  This was altogether too
                        slow a way of working, however, and the fire was visibly gaining on the boys. But, slow as this
                        process was, it served to teach Tom a lesson or rather to remind him of one he had learned and
                        forgotten. He found that a hatful of water thrown on the bottom of the fire did more good than
                        two hatfuls thrown on top, and he remembered that when the soot in the chimney at home caught
                        fire once, his father would not allow anybody to pour water down the chimney, but stood himself
                        by the fireplace throwing a little water, not up the chimney but, on the blazing fire below.
                        This water, turned into steam, went up the chimney and soon extinguished the fire there. In the
                        same way Tom now discovered that when he threw a hatful of water on a burning log at the bottom
                        of the pile it had a perceptible effect all the way to the top. Thinking of the chimney fire he
                        remembered also that his father had said at the time that a plank laid over the top of a burning
                        chimney, or a screen fastened over the fireplace would stop the burning of the soot by stopping
                        the air, and so smothering the fire. This suggested a new plan of operations for present  use. The long gray moss grew in great abundance all around the
                        place, and gathering this he dipped it in the river and then threw it on top of the fire. A
                        bunch of the moss held greatly more water than his hat, and it served also to smother the fire.
                        He and Joe repeated the operation, putting some of the moss on top and some against the sides of
                        the burning pile of timber. The steam from these perceptibly checked the burning, and an
                        hour's work covered the fire almost entirely up, so far at least as the exposed side of
                        the drift-pile was concerned. But just as they were disposed to congratulate themselves upon
                        their success in subduing the flames, they discovered that while they had been smothering the
                        fire on one side it had been burning freely further in. The openness of the hammock gave free
                        access to the air from the other side, and just beyond the line of moss they saw a blaze licking
                        its tongue out from below. They were tired out, already, and this added discouragement to
                        weariness. Little Judie, although the boys had urged her to remain quiet, had been hard at work
                        bringing moss to them, insisting upon her right to work as  well
                        as they. She had discovered too that the sand, just below the surface was wet, and that this
                        served almost as good a purpose as the moss itself when thrown on the fire. The poor little girl
                        was utterly tired out at last, however, and when the fire seemed to be subsiding, she had
                        yielded to Tom's entreaties, and going into the drift-pile had laid down to rest. Now
                        that all their work promised to accomplish nothing, the boys were vexed with themselves for
                        having permitted the frail little girl to wear herself out in so fruitless a task. This, with
                        their disappointment, served to make them utterly wretched.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    IN THE WILDERNESS.
                    WHEN Sam went over the cliff, he thought of poor little Judie, and Tom and Joe, and, for their
                        sake more than his own, took every precaution which might give him an additional chance of life.
                        He knew that he should fall into the creek, and that the blow, when he struck the water, would
                        be a very severe one. If he could keep his horse under him all the way, however, the animal and
                        not he would be the chief sufferer. Fearing that the horse would hesitate at the cliff, blunder,
                        and throw him a somersault, perhaps falling on him, he held the beast's head high and
                        urged him forward at full speed, and so, as we have seen, the horse's back was almost
                        level as he leaped from the top of the bank. Sam had no saddle or stirrups in which to become
                        entangled,  and as the horse struck the water fairly, the blow was
                        not nearly so severe a shock to the boy as he had expected. Both went under the water, but
                        rising again in a moment Sam slid off the animal's back, to give the poor fellow a
                        better chance of escape by swimming. Striking out boldly Sam reached the bank and crawling up
                        looked for his horse. The poor beast was evidently too severely hurt to swim with ease, and so
                        he drifted away, Sam running along the bank, calling and encouraging him. He struck the shore at
                        last, and Sam examining him found that while he was stunned and bruised no serious damage had
                        been done.
                    "Poor fellow," he said, stroking the colt's head, "you cannot
                        serve me any further in this swamp, but you saved my life and I'm glad you're
                        not killed anyhow."
                    Then taking the bridle off, he turned the horse loose, to graze and browse at will in the dense
                        growth of the swamp.
                    Sam was feverish still, and very weak, but his anxiety to reach the root fortress again was an
                        overmastering impulse. He had lost his bearings in the mad chase, and the sky was so overcast
                             that he could make no use of the sun as a guide. He knew that
                        his course lay nearly northward, and it was his purpose to travel only at night, as before; but
                        unless he could get out of the swamp during the day, and ascertain in what direction he must
                        travel, he could not go on during the night at all. If it should clear off by evening, the pole
                        star would show him his way, but there was no promise of a clearing away. He must find the
                        course during the day, and he set about it at once, after examining his salt bag which he had
                        put around his body, under his shirt, on the night on which he got it. The salt was saturated
                        with water, and Sam's first impulse was to wring it out; but it occurred to him that
                        the water he should squeeze out of it would be salt water, or in other words, that some of the
                        salt would come away with the water and be lost. If he let it dry gradually, however, all the
                        salt would remain, and he determined to let it dry, carrying it, with that in view, over his
                        shoulder. How to find out which way was north was the question, and it puzzled him sorely. He
                        knew the general course of all the creeks in that part of the country, but as they  wind about in every direction it was impossible to get any
                        information out of the one he was near. It was his habit, when he wanted to solve any difficult
                        problem, to sit down and think of it in all its bearings, and a very excellent habit that is
                        too. Nearly half our blunders, all through life, might be avoided if we would think carefully
                        before acting; and nearly half the useful things we know, have been found out simply by
                        somebody's thinking. Sam sat down on a log and said to himself;
                    "Now if there is anything in the woods which always or nearly always points in any one
                        direction, I can find it by looking. Then I can find out which Way it points, by remembering how
                        the woods look around home, where I know the points of the compass."
                    This was an excellent beginning, and Sam straightway began looking for something which should
                        guide him. A patch of sunflowers grew by the creek, and he had heard that they always turn their
                        heads to the sun, but upon examining them, he found some of them turned one way and some
                        another, so that they were of no use whatever. Presently he observed some beautiful green moss
                        growing  at the root and for a good many feetup the trunk of a
                        tree, and looking around he saw that the moss at the roots of all the trees grew only or chiefly
                        on one side, and that the covered side was the same with all of them. Here was a uniform habit
                        of vegetation, and Sam knew enough to know that such a habit was not likely to be confined to
                        one particular locality. He began thinking of the woods around home, and especially of a clump
                        of trees in the yard at his father's house, the moss-covered roots of which were
                        Judie's favorite playing place. This moss, he remembered, was nearly all on the north
                        side of the trees, whose southern roots were bare. All the other mossy trees he could remember
                        taught the same lesson, namely, that the green moss which grows around the bases of trees, grows
                        chiefly on the north side. He had no doubt that the law was a general, if not a universal one,
                        and as the mossy trees were very numerous, he had a guide easily followed. Striking out
                        northwardly, therefore, he travelled several miles before stopping, coming then to a suitable
                        restingplace he lay down to gather strength for the night's journey. When night come,
                        however, it had been  raining for some hours, and in addition to
                        the darkness of a rainy night in a swamp, Sam found the soft alluvial soil so saturated with
                        water that he sank almost to his knees at every step. Finding it impossible to go on he stopped
                        again on the highest and dryest piece of ground he could find, and prepared to spend the night
                        there. Cutting down a number of thick-leaved bushes he arranged them against a fallen tree, as a
                        shelter.
                    He had been lying down but a short time when he discovered that pretty nearly all the rain that
                        fell on his bush roof found its way through in great drops from the leaves. It then occurred to
                        him that he had erred in placing the bushes with their tops up. This indeed, made them mere
                        catchers and conductors of water to the space they covered. Turning them, so that their drooping
                        leaves pointed downward, he was not long in making a really comfortable shelter, through which
                        very little water could find its way.
                    Towards morning he waked and found himself lying in water. He could see nothing in the darkness,
                        but supposed that the rain had in some way made a pool where he was lying. On coming out  from his tent, however, he found matters much worse than he had
                        thought. In whatever direction he looked he could see nothing but water, and he knew what the
                        trouble was. The rain had been very heavy all along the creek, and the stream having very little
                        fall had spread out over the whole surface of the swamp. There was nothing to do except wait for
                        daylight, and he climbed upon the trunk of the fallen tree to get out of the water while he
                        waited. The rain had ceased to fall, and he had therefore no reason to fear any great increase
                        in the depth of the surrounding water.
                    When morning came, Sam found that he was not the only occupant of the fallen tree. A fine large
                        opossum had taken refuge in one of the upper branches, and Sam used his rifle to good purpose in
                        bringing him down. He was still suffering somewhat from the fever, though the excitement of his
                        recent ride had done much to relieve him, as anything which occupies one's mind is apt
                        to do in fevers of that sort, but he was nevertheless extremely hungry, not having tasted food
                        of any kind for nearly two days, and having previously lived for a long time, as we know, upon
                             an insufficient and not very wholesome diet. He was delighted
                        therefore to get a fat young opossum for breakfast. The next thing was to cook it. Sam was in no
                        danger here from Indians, who were not likely to be in such a swamp at any time, and were
                        certainly not then, when the swamp was full of water. He had no objection therefore to a fire,
                        but where and how to build one he was at some loss to determine. Looking carefully around he
                        discovered that in falling the great sycamore tree on which he stood had thrown up a large mound
                        of earth at its roots, as big trees in blowing down nearly always do. This mound was well above
                        the water, even at its base, and here Sam determined to roast his opossum. He first dug a hole
                        in the ground, making it about two feet long, one foot wide and eighteen inches deep. This was
                        to be his fireplace and oven. He next collected dry bark from the under side of the fallen tree,
                        and by breaking off its dead and well-seasoned limbs secured several large armfuls of wood. Then
                        taking from his leathern bullet-pouch a piece of greased rag, kept there to wrap bullets in
                        before ramming them in the barrel, he placed it in the 
                        "pan" of his rifle. Does the reader know what the "pan" of a
                        rifle is? If not he knows nothing of flintlock guns, and I must explain. Before the invention of
                        percussion caps, guns were provided with a little groove-shaped trough by the side of the powder
                        chamber. From this "pan" as it was called, a little hole led into the charge.
                        Over the pan fitted a piece of steel on a hinge, so that it could be opened and shut at
                        pleasure. This piece of steel, after covering the pan, extended diagonally upward, and its
                        surface was roughened like the face of a file. When the rifleman had loaded his gun he opened
                        the pan, poured in a little powder and closed it again. In the hammer was a piece of flint, and
                        when the trigger was pulled the flint came down with great force into the pan, scraping the
                        roughened steel as it came, and raising the pan cover on its hinge. It thus deposited a shower
                        of sparks in the pan, set fire to the powder there and through it to the charge in the gun.
                    Sam's object was merely to get fire, however,not to discharge his rifle,wherefore,
                        without reloading it, after shooting the opossum, he merely filled the pan with powder, placed
                        the greasy  rag in it, and cocking the gun pulled the trigger. In
                        a moment the rag was burning, and before many minutes had passed, Sam had a good fire burning in
                        and over the hole he had dug. He then skinned and dressed the opossum, stopping now and then to
                        replenish the fire and to throw all the live coals into the hole as they formed. Within an hour
                        the hole was full of burning coals, and hot enough, Sam thought, for his purpose. He cut a
                        number of green twigs and collected a quantity of the long gray moss. He then removed all the
                        fire from the hole, the sides and bottom of which were almost red hot, and passing a twig
                        through the opossum, lowered it to the middle of the hole, where the twig rested on ledges
                        provided for that purpose. This brought the dressed animal into the centre of the hole, without
                        permitting it to touch either the sides or the bottom. He then laid twigs across the top of the
                        hole, covered them with moss, and threw nearly a foot of loose earth over the moss. The sides
                        and bottom of the hole, as I have said, were very hot, and Sam's plan was to keep the
                        heat in until it should roast the meat thoroughly. That  his plan
                        was a good one, I know from experience, having roasted more than one turkey in that way. It is,
                        in fact, the very best way in which meat of any kind can possibly be roasted at all, as it lets
                        none of the flavor escape in the form of gases.
                    Sam waited patiently for an hour, when, opening his earth oven, he found his opossum cooked to a
                        rich, crisp brown. He ate a heartier and more wholesome breakfast that morning than he had eaten
                        for weeks, and felt afterwards altogether better and stronger than before. The breakfast would
                        have been an excellent one at any time, as the flesh of the opossum tastes almost exactly like
                        that of a suckling pig, but it was doubly good to the poor half-famished boy. He stowed away the
                        remains of his feast in his coatpockets to be eaten on his way back to the root fortress,
                        resolving to kill some other game on the journey, for the use of the little garrison there. He
                        was now, as he knew, not more than ten or twelve miles from his destination, but it was as yet
                        impossible for him to travel. The swamp was full of cypresses, and it is a peculiar habit of
                        these trees to turn their roots straight upward for any distance, from an  inch to many feet, and then to bring them straight down again, making what are
                        called cypress knees. These knees are very sharp on top, and sometimesstand not more than a foot
                        apart. Being of all heights, many of them, as Sam knew, were under water now, and these made
                        travelling impossible, even if there had been no quagmires to fall into, as there were. After
                        studying the situation, Sam determined to remain where he was until the water should subside,
                        and then to travel by daylight, at least until he should be out of the swamp and upon high
                        ground again. The waters of the creek subsided much more slowly than they had risen, and Sam
                        remained at the Sycamore Camp, as he called the place, for four days and nights before he
                        thought travelling again practicable.
                    He then resumed his march, beset by many difficulties. The ground was muddy everywhere, and
                        impassably so in some places. There were many ponds and pools left in the swamp, and. these had
                        to be avoided, so that night had already come before he found himself fairly out of the swamp
                        and on the bank of the river, about two miles below the root fortress. He now began to  feel all sorts of apprehensions. He had been away eleven days,
                        and he could not help imagining a variety of terrible things which might have happened to his
                        little band during his absence. Presently he saw a great light up the river, and at once the
                        thought flashed into his mind that the Indians had discovered and butchered the boys and Judie,
                        and were now burning the drift pile.
                    "I'll hurry on," he said to himself, "and if the Indians are
                        really there, it's time for me to take part in this war. I can keep in the timber and
                        pick off half a dozen of them there in the fire light. Then if they scalp me, I don't
                        care. I'll at least make them suffer for what they've done."
                    A fierce storm was just breaking,a storm of the violent and heroic type seen only in tropical and
                        sub-tropical countries, but Sam thought nothing of that. He pushed on almost unconsciously, with
                        no thought except that with his rifle, hidden in the darkness, he could wage one sharp and
                        terrible battle with the murderers of Judie and Tom and Joe, before suffering death at their
                        hands. The lightning struck a tree just ahead of him, but he seemed not to observe the fact. He
                        was going  into battle, and what was a thunderbolt more or less at
                        such a time. The rain followed, drenching him instantly, but not dampening his determination in
                        the least.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII.
                    AN ALARM AND A WELCOME.
                    WHEN Tom and Joe made the disheartening discovery that in spite of all their efforts the fire was
                        burning inside the hammock, they felt like giving up in despair, and seeking another refuge.
                    "But then Sam would never find us," said Tom, "even if he gets back.
                        He will find this place burned up and think the Indians have killed us all. We must put this fire out, Joe, if it takes a week."
                    And straightway the boys began again, saturating large armfuls of moss with water and laying them
                        on top of the drift whenever the blaze showed itself. Heart-pine burns rapidly with a great
                        blaze and much smoke, but it makes no coals, and a gallon of water will sometimes stop the
                        burning  of a great log of it, instantly. Every armful of wet moss
                        therefore had an immediate and perceptible effect which greatly encouraged the boys. They worked
                        hour after, hour, not succeeding in putting the fire out, indeed, but managing to check it very
                        decidedly, and better than all, to keep it away from the trees and from the alleyway leading to
                        their hiding-place. Just as night fell, Joe called out,
                    "I say, Mas' Tommy, it's gwine to rain
                        buc-etsful."
                    "I wish it would," said Tom, looking up to the black clouds which as yet he had
                        hardly observed at all. Just then a sharp flash followed by a sudden peal of thunder almost
                        stunned the boys.
                    "Dat didn't strike fur from here," said Joe.
                    "No, it must have hit a tree down the river a little way," said Tom.
                    The rain followed in torrents, and little Judie came out of her hiding-place to beg the boys to
                        come in lest the lightning should strike them. They were encouraged by the rain, however, to
                        continue fighting the fire, and resumed operations at once.
                    
                    "Hush!" said Tom presently, "there's Indians about. I heard
                        'em walking in the brush. Run around the hammock quick, and let's
                        hide."
                    All ran without a moment's hesitation, and secreting themselves in the drift awaited
                        results.
                    Presently they heard footsteps in the alley-way, and the voice of their big brother called out.
                    "Where are all you, little people, and what do do you hide from me for?"
                    The Indian they had heard was Sam creeping around to see who it was that was burning the drift.
                        Seeing the boys and Judie, he walked out of the thicket, but before he could get to them they
                        had taken refuge in the drift from the supposed danger. Their joy at Sam's return, and
                        Sam's joy at finding them safe and well instead of finding Indians dancing around their
                        burning dwelling, may be imagined. Tom put his arm around his brother's neck, and could
                        say nothing but,
                    "Dear old Sam," which he said over again every ten seconds during half an hour
                        at least. Judie hugged and kissed Sam, and cried over him and called him her "dear,
                        best, big brother," and did all sorts of foolish things which didn't strike
                             Sam as foolish at all. Joe would sit awhile and then get up
                        and dance until he knocked his shins against some of the drift, and then set down again, and
                        then get up and dance again, grinning with delight, I have no doubt, though it was too dark for
                        anybody to see whether he grinned or not.
                    After a little while Sam went out and returning reported that the rain had completely
                        extinguished the fire. They then retired to the root fortress which was unhurt, and Sam said he
                        thought they ought to hold prayers before going to sleep. Sam prayed rather awkwardly perhaps,
                        but he prayed because he felt like thanking the Father who had watched over them all in so many
                        dangers, and the awkwardness of such a prayer is a matter of no consequence. They all laid down,
                        after prayers, and one after another fell asleep.
                    The next morning a fire was started after the plan Sam had adopted in the swamp, and some game
                        which he had killed made a savory breakfast, for all of them. Judie thought salt, which she now
                        tasted for the first time in many weeks, was altogether better than sugar,an opinion which it
                        seems she never before held. After breakfast explanations  were in
                        order. Sam told the others all about his adventures, and they gave him a minute history of their
                        life during his absence. Then Sam explained that from the number of savages he had seen on that
                        side of the river, he thought the other side must now be comparatively free from them.
                    "Fort Glass is just twelve miles away from here," he said, "and I mean
                        now to go there, just as soon as I get a little rested and feel strong enough. The country along
                        this part of the river is very bad to travel through, though, since the river rose, as all the
                        creeks are up, and if we could get up the river about eight miles, we should be within six miles
                        of the fort, with a good country to. travel through. We can't get there, however, and
                        so it's no use to talk about it. We must just strike out from here and make our way
                        across the best way we can."
                    But clearly Sam was in no condition to travel yet. His fever had come back en him that morning,
                        and it was necessary to postpone the journey to Fort Glass until he should get better. He went
                        into the woods during the day, and shot two squirrels  and a wild
                        turkey, but upon his return found himself unable to sit up longer. The bed of scraped moss was
                        very welcome to the weary and sick boy. The next day he was a little better, but the next found
                        him very ill and partly delirious. The boys were frightened. They had seen enough of the fevers
                        of that region to know that they require immediate and constant treatment, and they had good
                        reason to fear that Sam could never recover without medicine and a doctor. They ministered to
                        him as well as they could, but they could do nothing to check the fever, which was now constant
                        and very high. Sam knew hardly anything, and rarely ever spoke at all except to talk
                        incoherently in fits of delirium.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                    JOE'S PLAN.
                    AM'S illness continued day after day, and the boys were greatly troubled. Little Judie
                        remained by her "big brother's" side almost constantly, while Tom and
                        Joe provided food, cooked it, and attended to the wants of the little community to the very best
                        of their ability. They were in the habit too, of retiring now and then, to a secluded spot in
                        the drift-pile, to consult and discuss plans of procedure. One day Tom went to the rendezvous
                        and found Joe there leaning against a log, with his feet on another, and his eyes closed.
                    "Are you asleep, Joe?" he asked.
                    "No, Mas' Tom, I'se not asleep," said Joe,
                        "I'se just thinkin'."
                    "Well, what were you thinking, Joe?"
                    
                    "I'se been layin' plans, Mas' Tom, an' I's
                        laid one good un anyhow."
                    "What is it, Joe?"
                    "Well, you see Mas' Sam ought, to have a doctor, an' he's
                        gwine to die if he don't, dat's sartain. But dey ain't no doctor
                        here."
                    Joe said this as if it were a new truth just discovered, that there was no 'doctor
                        there.
                    "Well, go on, Joe," said Tom, "and tell me your plan, maybe
                        it's a good one."
                    "Course it's a good un. I dun tell you dat fust."
                    "Well, what is it?"
                    "Mas' Tom, don't you know Mas' Sam always begins
                        'way back whar' he's been thinkin' an' tells all
                        dat fust so you kin see all de why's and wharfores?"
                    "Yes; but what has that to do with your plan, Joe?"
                    "Nothin', only dat's de way I'se gwine to 'splain my
                        plan, I'se dun begun way back whar I'se dun been thinkin',
                        an' I'se gwine to tell all 'bout dat fust. Den you'll
                        understan' de whys and wharfores. You mus'n't hurry me, Mas'
                        Tom, dat's all."
                    "All right, tell it your own way, Joe," said Tom, laughing.
                    
                    "No, I'se gwine to tell it Mas' Sam's way. Well, you see dey
                        ain't no doctor here an' we can't git one to come here neither. So we
                        must take Mas' Sam to whar' dey is doctors, do you see?"
                    "That's all very well," said Tom, "but how are we to do
                        that?"
                    "Now you'se hurryin' me again, Mas' Tom. Dat's just
                        what I'se a-comin' to. Mas' Sam said de other mornin' dat if
                        we was up de river about eight miles furder, de fort would be only six miles away, an'
                        de country would be easy 'nuff to cross. He dun say we couldn't git up de
                        river, but we kin. You see Mas' Sam was sick, an'
                        dat's de reason he say dat. Now I dun bin thinkin' of a way to git up de
                        river. Dey's lots of cane here, an' you an' me kin twis'
                        canes one over de other like de splits in a cha'r bottom, an' dat way, when we
                        gits a dozen big squars of it made, as big both ways as the canes is long, we kin lay
                        'em on top o' one an' other, an' fasten 'em
                        togedder wid bamboos, an' it'll be a fust-rate raft. Den you an' me
                        kin pole it up stream, keepin' close to de shore, wid Mas' Sam an'
                        little Miss Judie on it. When we  git up dar, I kin go over to de
                        fort, leavin' you wid Mas' Sam till de folks comes after you all."
                    This was Joe's plan of operations, and upon thinking it over Tom was disposed to think
                        it the best plan possible under the circumstances. Accordingly he and Joe went to work at once.
                        They could not make the raft inside the drift-pile, for want of room, but they found a place in
                        the bushes near the mouth of the creek, where they could work unobserved. They cut down a large
                        number of the flexible green canes, and wove them together into a square net work. Repeating
                        this operation several times they finally had enough of the squares to make, they thought, a
                        secure raft, when laid one on top of the other. It would not do to join them in the bushes
                        however, as that would make their weight so great that the boys could not lift them to the
                        water. They determined, therefore, to get their pushing poles first, and then to carry the
                        squares one by one to the river, and, arranging them there, to embark soon after nightfall. The
                        work of construction had occupied many days, and it was now the 12th of November. The boys hoped
                        to complete their undertaking  the next day and embark the next
                        night. After their return to the drift-pile, however, it occurred to Tom to inquire whether or
                        not Joe knew the way from the river to the fort, after they should reach the end of their
                        voyage.
                    "I 'clar', Mas' Tom, I never thought o' dat at
                        all!" said Joe in consternation. "I dunno a foot of de way, an' I
                        dunno whar' de fort is either."
                    Tom being equally ignorant, their long consultation held on the spot, ended in an enforced
                        abandonment of the enterprise which had occupied their heads and hands for so long a time.
                    "Now dar' it is, Mas' Tom," said Joe.
                        "Dat's always the way. Mas' Sam never makes no blunder,
                        'cause he thinks it all out careful fust. Poor Joe's head gets things all
                        mixed up. I aint no count anyhow, an' I jest wish I was dead or
                        somethin'."
                    Poor Joe! The disappointment was a sore one to him. He had been thinking all along of the glory
                        he should reap as the saviour of the little party, and now his whole plan was found to be
                        worthless. He slept little that night, and once Tom heard him quietly sobbing in his corner.
                        Creeping over to him Tom said:
                    
                    "Don't cry, Joe. You did your best anyhow, and it isn't your fault
                        that you don't know the way to the fort," and passing his arm around the poor
                        black boy's neck he gently drew his head to his shoulder, where it rested while the two
                        slept.
                    The next morning Judie was the first to wake, and she quietly waked Tom and Joe.
                    "Boys, boys," she cried in a whisper, "the Indians are all around us,
                        there is a fight going on. Get up quick, but don't make any noise."
                    The little girl was right. Rifles were cracking and Indians yelling all around their little
                        habitation. It at once occurred to Tom that here was hope as well as danger. If the Indians
                        should be driven back by the whites, he could communicate with the latter and the little
                        garrison of the root fortress would be rescued. At present, however, it was the savages and not
                        the whites who surrounded the trees and the drift pile. Tom determined lose no chance, however,
                        and cautioning the others to keep still, he went to the lookout to watch for an opportunity to
                        communicate with the white men whom these Indians were evidently fighting.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                    THE CANOE FIGHT.
                    BEFORE going further with the story of what happened around the root fortress on that morning, it
                        is necessary to explain how it came about that a battle was fought there. I gather the facts
                        from authentic history.
                    During all the time spent by the Hardwickes in their wanderings and in the root fortress, the war
                        had been going on vigorously. The occupants of Fort Sinquefield, when they abandoned that fort
                        as described in the early chapters of this story, succeeded in making their way to Fort Glass,
                        or Fort Madison, as it was properly named, though the people still used its original name Fort
                        Glass in speaking of it, for which reason I have so called the place throughout this story. In
                        July General Floyd, who was in command of all the United  States
                        forces in the south-west, sent General Claiborne, with his twelve months' Mississippi
                        volunteers to Fort Stoddart, with instructions to render such aid as he could to the forts in
                        the surrounding country. His force consisted of seven hundred men, and of them he took five
                        hundred to Fort Stoddart, sending the remaining two hundred, under Col. Joseph E. Carson, a
                        volunteer officer, to Fort Glass. The two hundred soldiers added greatly to the strength of the
                        place, and with the settlers who had taken refuge inside, rendered it reasonably secure against
                        attack. The refugees were under command of Captain Evan Austill, himself a planter of the
                        neighborhood.
                    Shortly after the storming of Fort Sinquefield, and almost immediately after the garrison of that
                        place had reached Fort Glass, the Indians appeared in great numbers in that neighborhood,
                        burning houses, killing everybody who strayed even a few hundred yards outside the picket gates,
                        and seriously threatening the fort itself. In view of these facts Col. Carson sent a young man
                        of nineteen years of age named Jerry Austill, the son of Capt. Evan Austill to General
                        Claiborne's head-quarters,  with dispatches describing
                        the situation and asking for reinforcements. Young Austill made the journey alone and at night,
                        at terrible risk, as he had to pass through a country infested with savages, but on his return
                        brought, instead of assistance, an order for Col. Carson to evacuate the fort and retire to Fort
                        Stephens. When he did so, however, Captain Austill and about fifty other planters, with their
                        families, determined to remain and defend Fort Glass at all hazards. Among those who remained
                        was Mr. Hardwicke, who, now that the Indians had murdered his children, as he supposed, had
                        little to live for, and was disposed to serve the common cause at the most dangerous posts,
                        where every available man was needed.
                    After a time Col. Carson was sent back to the fort with his Mississippi volunteers, and this
                        freed the daring spirits inside the fort from the necessity of remaining there. They went at
                        once on scouting parties, Tandy Walker, the guide, being almost always one of the number going
                        out on these perilous expeditions. They scoured the country far and near, in bodies ranging from
                        two or three to twenty or thirty men, and fought the Indians in 
                        many places, losing some valuable men but making the Indians suffer in their turn.
                    Finally it was determined to send out a party larger than any that had yet gone, to operate
                        against the savages on the south-east side of the river. This expedition numbered seventy-two
                        men, thirty of whom were Mississippi Yauger men, under a Captain Jones, while the others were
                        volunteers from private life. The expedition was under the command of Sam Dale, already
                        celebrated-as an Indian fighter, and known among the Creeks, with whom he had lived, as Sam
                        Thlueco, or Big Sam, on account of his enormous size and strength. During this Creek war he had
                        performed some feats of strength, skill and daring, the memory of which is still preserved in
                        history, together with that of the celebrated canoe fight, which we are now coming to. To tell
                        of these deeds of prowess would lead us away from our proper business, namely, the telling of
                        the present story; but the canoe fight comes properly into the story, being in fact one of its
                        incidents: Three only of Dale's companions figured with him in the canoe fight, and
                        they alone need mentioning by name. These  were, first Jerry
                        Austill, the young man already spoken of, who was six feet two inches high, slender but strong,
                        and active as a cat; second, James Smith, a man of firm frame and dauntless spirit; and third
                        Csar, a negro man, who conducted himself with a courage and coolness fairly entitling him to
                        bear the name of the great Roman warrior. The expedition left Fort Glass on the 11 th of
                        November, 1823. Tandy Walkerwas its guide, and every man in the party knew that Tandy was not
                        likely to be long in leading them to a place where Indians were plentiful. He knew every inch of
                        country round about, and nothing pleased him so well as a battle in any shape. The day after
                        they left Fort Glass, Dale's men reached the river at a point eighteen miles below the
                        present town of Clairborne, and about fifteen miles below the root fortress. Here they crossed,
                        in two canoes, to the eastern shore of the river, and spent the night without sleep. The next
                        morning Austill, with six men, ascended the river in the canoes, while Dale, with the rest of
                        the party, marched up the bank. About a mile below the root fortress, Dale who was marching some
                        distance ahead of his  men, came upon some Indians at breakfast,
                        and without waiting for his men to come up, shot their chief. The rest fled precipitately,
                        leaving' their provisions behind. Pushing on, Dale reached a point about two hundred
                        yards below the root fortress, and there determined to recross the river. The canoes transported
                        the men as rapidly as possible, but when all were over except Dale and eight or nine men (among
                        whom were Smith, Austill and Csar), and only one canoe remained at the eastern side of the
                        stream, a large party of Indians, numbering, as was afterwards ascertained, nearly three
                        hundred, attacked the handful of whites still remaining. These retreated from the field, where
                        they were breakfasting, and keeping the Indians in check by careful and well-aimed firing; were
                        about to get into the canoe and escape to the opposite bank, about four hundred yards away, when
                        they discovered that their retreat-was cut off by a large canoe full of Indians, eleven in all,
                        which had come out of the mouth of the creek just above. The savages tried to approach the
                        shore, but, in spite of the fact that by careening the canoe to one side and lying down they
                        were  able to conceal themselves, they were prevented from landing
                        by Austill and one or two other men. Two of the Indians jumped into the water and tried to swim
                        to the shore, while the others, firing over the gunwale of the boat, were sorely annoying the
                        whites. Austill shot one of the swimmers but the other escaped to the shore, and joined the
                        savages there, informing them, as Dale supposed, of the weakness of his force, which they had
                        not yet discovered. Dale called to the men on the other side of the river to cross and assist
                        him, but they, after making an abortive attempt to send a canoe load across, remained idle
                        spectators of the terribly unequal conflict. Dale, seeing that no help was to come from them,
                        and knowing that the Indians would shortly overcome him by sheer force of numbers, resolved upon
                        a recklessly daring manoeuvre, namely, an attempt to capture the Indian canoe! He called out to
                        his comrades.
                    "I'm going to fight the canoe with a canoe. Who will go with me?"
                    Austill, Smith and Csar volunteered at once, and Csar took his post as steersman, while the  three stalwart soldiers were leaping into the canoe for the
                        purpose of fighting hand to hand the nine Indians opposed to them. As they shot out from the
                        shore the savages on the bank delivered a fierce fire upon them, but fortunately without effect.
                        The savages in the canoe had exhausted their powder, and Dale's party would have had an
                        advantage in this but for the fact that their own powder had become wet as they were getting
                        into their canoe. The fight must be hand to hand, but they were not the men to shrink from it.
                        When the boats struck, the Indians leaped up and began using their rifles as clubs. Austin, who
                        was in the bow of Dale's boat, received the first shock of the battle, but Csar
                        promptly swung his boat around, and grappling the other canoe held the two side by side during
                        the whole fight. Dale's boat was a very small one, and he to relieve it sprang into the
                        Indian canoe, thereby giving his comrades more room and crowding the Indians so closely together
                        as to embarrass their movements. The blows now fell thick and fast. Austill was knocked down
                        into the Indian boat, and an Indian was about to put him to death when Smith  saved him by braining the savage. Austill then rose, and
                        snatching a war club from one of the Indians used that instead of his rifle. Eight of the
                        savages were slain, and Dale found himself face to face with the solitary survivor, whom he
                        recognized as a young Muscogee with whom he had been for years on terms of the most intimate
                        friendship, and whom he loved, as he declared, almost as a brother. He lowered his up-raised
                        rifle to spare his friend, but the savage would not accept quarter. He cried out in the Creek
                        language, which Dale understood as well as he did English,
                    "Big Sam, you are a man, and I am another! Now for it!" and with that the two
                        joined in a struggle for life. A blow from Dale's gun ended at once the canoe fight and
                        the life of the young brave, who, even from his friend, would not accept the mercy which his
                        nation was not ready to show to the whites. It is said that to the day of his death Dale could
                        not speak of this incident without shedding tears.
                    
                    Dale and his comrades had still a duty to do and some danger yet to encounter. The party
                        remaining on the bank was in imminent peril, and must be rescued at all hazards. The little
                        canoe was not large enough to carry them all, and so the big one must be cleared of the dead
                        Indians in it, and the heroes of the canoe fight accomplished this under a severe fire from the
                        bank. Then jumping into the captured boat, they paddled to the shore, and taking their hard
                        pressed comrades on board, crossed under fire to the other side whence they marched to Fort
                        Glass, twelve miles away, having dealt the savages a severe blow without losing a man. Austill
                        was hurt pretty badly on the head, and a permanent dent in his skull attested the narrowness of
                        his escape.
                    This battle was waged within sight of the root fortress, the drift pile being indeed the cover
                        from which the Indians fought. Tom, as we know, went to the look-out at the beginning of the
                        fight, and he remained there to the end in the hope that the fortune of battle might possibly
                        bring the whites within call, and thus afford the little refugee band a chance of escape. No
                        such chance came, however,  and sadly enough the two boys, for Joe
                        was also in the look-out, watched the passage of the last of Dale's men across the
                        stream, half a mile below.
                    "Mas' Tom," said Joe, "dem folks gwine right straight to de
                        fort."
                    "Yes, of course, said Tom. What of it?"
                    "Nothin', only I wish I could go wid 'em, and tell 'em
                        Mas' Sam's here sick."
                    "So do I, Joe, but we can't go with them, and it's no use
                        wishing."
                    "I reckon 'tain't no use, but I can't help wishin for all
                        dat. When folk's got der own way dey don't wish for it. It's when you
                        can't git your way dat you wish, ain't it?"
                    Tom was forced to admit that Joe was right, and that in wishing to be with the retreating party
                        he was not altogether unreasonable.
                    The two boys sat there, looking and longing. The savages had disappeared almost as suddenly as
                        they had come, and presently Joe sprang up, saying.
                    "Dar's de little canoe lodged in the bushes, an' I'se gwine
                        to fasten her to the bank anyhow, so's we'll have her if we want
                        her."
                    What possible use they could make of the  canoe, it had not entered
                        Joe's head to ask perhaps, but he tied the boat in the bushes nevertheless'
                        and secreted the paddle in the drift pile. He then visited the place where Dale's men
                        had been surprised at breakfast, and brought off the pack of provisions which Dale had captured
                        that morning from the savages and had himself abandoned in his turn. The pack was a well-stored
                        one, and its possession was a matter of no little moment to the boys, whose bill of fare had
                        hitherto embraced no bread, of which there was here an abundance in the shape of ash cake.
                    "Mas' Tom," said Joe that evening, "do you know my
                        master?"
                    "Mr. Butler? Yes, certainly."
                    "Well, if anything happens to poor Joe, and if you ever gits to de fort an' if
                        Joe don't, an' if you sees my master dar you'll tell him Joe never
                        runned away anyhow, won't you."
                    "Yes, I'll tell him that Joe."
                    "Even if the Ingins ketches me an' you dunno whar' I'se gone
                        to, you'll tell him anyhow dat Joe never runned away from him or from you nuther,
                        won't you, Mas' Tom?"
                    
                    "Of course, Joe. But there won't be any chance to tell him anything about it
                        unless we all get back to the fort, and then you can tell him for yourself. He thinks you are
                        dead, of course, and doesn't dream that you ever ran away. You'll get back
                        safely if the Indians don't catch you, and if they catch you they'll catch all
                        of us, so I won't be there to tell your master about you."
                    "Dun no 'bout dat," replied Joe. "Dey mought catch Joe
                        'thout catchin' anybody else, an' 'thout you nor nobody
                        knowin' nothin' 'bout it, and Joe wants you to promise anyway
                        da"t you'll stick to it to de las' dat poor Joe was no runaway
                        nigger, nohow at all. Kin you do dat for me, Mas' Tom?"
                    "Certainly, Joe," said Tom taughing," I promise you."
                    "Will you git mad if Joe axes you to shake han's on dat, Mas' Tom? I
                        wants to make sartain sure on it."
                    Tom laughed, but held out his hand, convinced that the poor black boy was out of spirits at
                        least, if not out of his mind.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                    THE BOYS ARE DRIVEN OUT OF THE ROOT FORTRESS.
                    AM was only partially conscious during the battle around his habitation. The fever, which now
                        rose and fell at intervals, was usually highest during the forenoon, abating somewhat later in
                        the day. When it was highest he was always in either an unconscious stupor, or a wild delirium.
                        When the fever abated, however, his consciousness returned, and he was capable of talking and of
                        understanding all that was said. In these lucid intervals, he insisted upon knowing all that had
                        happened, so that he might tell the boys what was best to do. On this day Tom had a story of
                        more than ordinary interest to tell him, about the battle and the chance of rescue which had so
                        narrowly passed them. Sam was interested in it all as a matter of course, but he was still  more deeply interested, it seemed, in the condition of the sand
                        near the place where he was lying. He had dug a little hole with his hand, and feeling of the
                        sand found it decidedly wet. Turning to Tom, he said:
                    "The river is rising rapidly, isn't it?"
                    "Yes; but how did you find it out?"
                    "By the sand. I've been watching it a good deal since the fall rains set in, as
                        I'm afraid the river will drive us out of here. You see, the water works easily through
                        the sand, and you can always tell what the level of the river is, if its banks are sandy, by
                        digging down to where the sand is wet."
                    "Yes," said Tom, "but the river isn't within a hundred feet
                        of us yet."
                    "You are mistaken. It is within six inches of us," said Sam.
                    "How's that?"
                    "Well, this bank is almost exactly level, and when the river gets above its edge it
                        spreads at once all over it. Now the sand is wet within six inches of the top, and the river is
                        within six inches of the edge of the bank. When it rises six or 
                        eight inches more, it'll be in here, and I'm afraid it will rise that much
                        before morning. At any rate we must be ready for it."
                    "What can we do?" asked Tom in alarm. "There's no place to
                        hide on the upper bank."
                    "We mustn't quit this bank, and we mustn't quit the drift-pile
                        either," replied Sam. "You must find a good place, high up in the drift where,
                        by pulling out sticks, you and Joe can make a place for us to stay in."
                    "But, Sam, what if the water gets to us there?"
                    "It won't get to us there."
                    "How do you know?"
                    "Because the biggest freshets always come in the spring, and the top of this drift-pile
                        was put where it is by the biggest freshets, so the river won't go near the top in
                        November. You see, as the drift floated on top of the water to its present place, the top of the
                        pile must be the highest point, or very nearly the highest, that the water ever reaches. If you
                        can find a good place therefore in the upper part of the drift-pile, we shall be safe there. But
                        you'd better see about it at once,  as the water may be
                        in here before morning, and at any rate we mustn't allow ourselves to be taken by
                        surprise. You'd better go to the river and set a stake first so you can tell how fast
                        the water rises and know when to move into the new place."
                    Tom set his stake at the water's edge and then selected the most available place he
                        could find for the new abode. He and Joe went diligently to work, rearranging the loose sticks
                        of driftwood and even carrying many of them clear out of the pile, so as to enlarge the hole
                        they had found and make it as habitable as possible.
                    "The trouble is," said Tom when they had nearly completed their task,
                        "that we can't make a smooth floor, and it's going to be rather
                        uncomfortable lying on loose logs and big round sticks that run every which way."
                    "That's my business," said Judie looking in at the entrance.
                        "I'm the housekeeper, you know, and I've thought of all
                        that."
                    And sure enough the little woman had brought a great pile of small, leafy, tree branches and bush
                        tops, with which she speedily filled up the low  places between
                        the timbers, and covered the timbers themselves to a depth of three or four inches, making a
                        soft as well as a level floor. She had foreseen the difficulty, and borrowing Sam's
                        knife, had worked with all her might to provide in advance against it. But the bushes and leaves
                        were not all that she had brought. She had collected also a large quantity of gray moss with
                        which to make a carpet for the springy floor.
                    "Now please don't tell brother Sam," she said when the boys praised
                        her thoughtfulness and ingenuity. "I want to surprise him when he comes."
                    Tom and Joe promised, and Tom said they would have to call her their" little
                        housekeeper" hereafter.
                    The river was still rising, but more slowly, it appeared, than it had done before. By
                        Tom's calculations it was coming up at the rate of an inch in three hours, wherefore
                        Sam thought they might safely remain where they were until morning at least, while if the water
                        should come to a stand during the night, they would have no occasion to move at all, as a fall
                        would rapidly follow, if the weather should remain clear.
                    
                    Joe had worked faithfully at the task of preparing the new place of refuge, but he was not at all
                        satisfied with the arrangement.
                    "I tell you, Mas' Tom," he said, "wood 'll float,
                        'thout 'tis live oak, an' dis here drif'-pile 'll
                        jest raise up an' float away, you'll see if it don't."
                    "Why hasn't it floated away long ago, then, Joe?" asked Tom.
                    "May be it has. How you know dis drif didn't all on it come here las'
                        time de river was up?"
                    "Well, there's too much of it for that, and besides, Sam says this place is
                        safe, and you know he is always right about things when he speaks positively about
                        them."
                    "Mas' Tom, don' you know Mas' Sam done been
                        a-talkin' nonsense for two weeks now?"
                    "Yes; but that's only when he's out of his head." '
                    "How you know when he's outen his head an' when he
                        ain't?"
                    "We know he's out of his head when he talks nonsense."
                    "Well, maybe dis here 's nonsense. I jest  knows
                        it is, and dat's how I know Mas' Sam was outen his head when he said
                        it."
                    Tom saw that Joe was not to be convinced, and so he contented himself with saying,
                    "Well, we'll see."
                    "Yes, dat's jest it. We will see, and feel too, when we all
                        gets drownded in de water."
                    The water came to a stand about midnight, and was falling slowly the next morning. But when
                        morning came it was raining hard, and the rain was evidently not a local but a general one,
                        wherefore, Tom feared that the fall would shortly be changed into a rise, and that the bank
                        would soon be covered. He watched his stake carefully, visiting it every half hour. At nine
                        o'clock the river had fallen three inches, and was about eight inches below the bank.
                        From nine to ten it fell only about half an inch. Between ten and eleven the fall was not more
                        than a quarter of an inch. Between eleven and twelve no fall at all was perceptible. From twelve
                        to one there was a slight rise. Between one and two it rose nearly an inch. The next hour
                        brought with it a rise of two inches. By five o'clock the level of the water was barely
                             two inches below the edge of the bank, and as it was rising
                        at the rate of two or three inches an hour, Sam thought it time to remove from their old to
                        their new quarters. The change was of advantage to the sick boy, who was now getting somewhat
                        better at any rate, and when he found himself in the new place the interest he showed in
                        examining all the details of its arrangements, was the best possible evidence of improvement.
                    "Come here, little woman," he said to Judie, "and give an account of
                        yourself. You borrowed my knife yesterday, and somebody has been using it in cutting bush tops
                        to make a smooth floor with, and the idea was a very good one. Can you tell me who it
                        was?"
                    "Maybe it was Tom," she replied mischievously.
                    "No, it was not Tom," Sam answered. "He's too much of a great
                        awkward boy to think of anything so comfortable. You must guess again."
                    "Joe, then," she said.
                    "No, it wasn't Joe, either," said Sam. "Joe can sleep on the
                        edge of a fence rail as well as anywhere else, and he never would have thought  of making our floor soft and smooth. Guess again."
                    "Maybe it was brother Sam," said Judie.
                    "Oh, certainly. It must have been I," replied Sam. "I must have done
                        it. I'm so strong and active now-a-days. Yes, on reflection, I presume I did it, and
                        the man in the moon helped me. Now I think it was a very thoughtful and helpful thing for
                        anybody to do, so you ought to kiss me for doing it, and when the weather gets clear you must
                        throw a kiss to the man in the moon, too, for his share." And with that he kissed the
                        little housekeeper, and she felt herself abundantly repaid for her work and for the
                        thoughtfulness she had shown. She was never so happy as when Sam praised her," because
                        he's such a splendid big brother," she would explain.
                    Tom, seeing that Sam was getting better at last, began to hope for his complete recovery, and the
                        hope made him buoyant of spirit again. Judie, too, who watched and weighed every symptom in
                        Sam's case, discovered to her delight that he was decidedly better, and the discovery
                        made her as happy as a healthy girl well can be. Poor Joe seemed to be  the only miserable one in the party. He said almost nothing, answering questions
                        with a simple "yes" or "no," and sitting moodily in his
                        corner, when he stayed inside the "drift cavern"which was Sam's name
                        for the new abodeat all. He spent most of his time, however, on top of the pile, where he
                        watched the water and the clouds. The rain had ceased, but the river, which was now creeping
                        over the broad bank, continued to rise.
                    "What is the matter with Joe?" asked Sam after the boy had gone out for the
                        twentieth time.
                    "I think he's afraid we're all going to be drowned," said
                        Tom.
                    "Drowned? How?"
                    "Well, he says wood will float, and so he thinks when the water comes up under the
                        drift-pile, it will all float away."
                    "What nonsense!" exclaimed Sam. "Why didn't you tell him
                        better, Tom?"
                    "I did; but he sticks to it, and"
                    "Well, couldn't you explain it so that he would understand it and not have to
                        trust to your judgment for it?"
                    
                    "No, I couldn't. The fact is, I don't quite understand it myself.
                        There isn't a stick in this whole pile that won't float, and I don't
                        quite understand why the pile won't. But I don't doubt you're right
                        about it, Sam. You always are right whether I understand how things are or not."
                    "Let me explain it to you, then. Do you know why some things float and others
                        don't?"
                    "Yes, of course. Because the things that float are lighter than the things that
                        sink."
                    "Not exactly. That log there is too heavy for you to lift, while you can carry a bullet
                        between your thumb and finger. The log is many hundred times heavier than a bullet, but the log
                        will float while the bullet will sink always."
                    "That's so," said Tom, "and I don't know what does
                        make some things float and other things sink."
                    "Did you ever set a teacup in the water and see it float?"
                    "Yes, many a time."
                    "But if you fill it with water it will sink, won't it?"
                    "Yes, of course."
                    
                    "Well, now I can1 explain the thing to you, I think. If a thing is heavier,the whole
                        thing I mean, than the amount of water it displaces,that is, if it is heavier than exactly its
                        own bulk of water, it will sink; but if it is lighter than its own bulk of water it will
                        float."
                    "Oh, yes, I see."
                    "Now a bullet weighs a good deal more than its own bulk of water, and so it sinks. A log
                        weighs less than its own bulk of water, and so it floats. An empty teacup weighs less than a
                        solid body of water equal to it in size, and it therefore floats. If you fill it with water,
                        however, you increase its weight without adding anything to the amount of water it displaces,or
                        rather, as you let water into all the hollow space, you lessen by that much the amount of water
                        it must displace in sinking without taking away anything from its weight, and so it sinks; or,
                        if you break the teacup you lessen the amount of water it must displace without lessening its
                        weight, and so it sinks in that case, too. Do you understand that?"
                    "Yes, I think I do," said Tom; "but I don't exactly see how
                        it applies to the drift-pile."
                    
                    "I'll explain that presently. I want to make it plain first that the ability of
                        a thing to float depends not on its weight, but on its weight as compared with that of a like
                        bulk of water. This comparative or relative weight is called specific gravity,
                        and in measuring the specific gravity of substances water is taken as the standard usually,
                        though sometimes gold is used for that purpose. Now to come to the drift-pile. When the water
                        rises say two or three feet, it will be above the level of the lower logs, and these would float
                        away, if they were free, because their specific gravity is less than that of water. But there is
                        twenty feet of other timber on top of them, and its weight must be added to theirs. The water
                        displaced is exactly equal to their bulk, while the weight is many hundred times greater than
                        theirs. Do you understand?"
                    "Yes, I think I do. You mean that the water must come high enough to pretty nearly cover
                        the whole drift-pile before any of it can float."
                    "Yes. The pile must be considered as a whole, and it won't float until there is
                        water enough to float the whole. The bottom logs can't 
                        float while those above them are clear out of water, if their weight rests on the bottom logs,
                        as it does in the drift-pile. You see when you put anything into the water, it sinks until it
                        has displaced a bulk of water equal to its own weight, and then stops sinking. In other words,
                        that part of the floating thing which goes under the water is exactly the size of a body of
                        water equal in weight to the whole thing. If a log floats with just half of itself above water,
                        you know that the log weighs exactly the same as half its own bulk of water, or, in other words,
                        that its specific gravity is just half that of water. Water two inches deep won't float
                        a great saw-log, because a great saw-log weighs more than the amount of water it takes to cover
                        its lower part two or three inches deep; and water two or three feet deep won't float a
                        drift-pile twenty feet high, because such a drift-pile weighs a good deal more than a body of
                        water two or three feet deep, of its own length and width. But even if the water were to rise to
                        the top of the hammock, the pile wouldn't float away. It would float, of course, and
                        some of the wood near its edges would be carried away, but the main pile would  remain here, because it is all tangled together and
                        can't go away except in one great mass. It is so firmly lodged against the trees as to
                        prevent that, and as a freshet big enough to cover, or nearly cover it, would bring down a great
                        quantity of new drift and deposit it here, the pile would grow bigger rather than smaller. But
                        the river won't get very high at this season, or at any rate it won't rise to
                        anywhere near the top of the hammock, as I have already explained to you, because it is
                        evidently only the biggest freshets that ever come near the top, and the biggest freshets never
                        come in the fall, but always in the spring. It isn't rising fast enough either. It
                        isn't rising nearly so fast now as it was before it got over the bank."
                    "Why, how do you know that, Sam? You haven't been to look."
                    "No, but I know it, nevertheless, simply because I know that water, left to itself, will
                        find its level."
                    "I don't see what that's got to do with it," said Tom.
                    "Perhaps not, but it has something to do with it for all that," replied Sam;
                        "and I can make you see how, too."
                    
                    He paused, to think the matter over and determine how to present it to Tom's
                        comprehension.
                    "You see," he then resumed, "that the river inside its banks is about
                        four hundred yards wide. When it rises above the banks, however, it spreads out over the level
                        ground, and becomes, in some places, many miles wide, averaging a mile at least in width. Now
                        there is only a certain amount of water coming into the river every hour. The rain has stopped,
                        but the soil is full of water, and so there is about as much running into the river now as there
                        was while the rain lasted. But the surface of the stream is now many times greater than it was,
                        and as water finds its level, all that comes into the river spreads out over its whole surface,
                        and of course doesn't raise its level nearly so much as the same quantity did while the
                        stream was still within its banks. Do you understand now?"
                    "What a great big brother you are, Sam, anyhow!" was all the reply Tom
                    made.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                    WHERE IS JOE?
                    IT was now getting late, and Sam knew that it was not well for him to talk longer. He felt so
                        much better, however, that he knew he would continue to talk in spite of himself unless the
                        whole party should go to sleep at once. Joe had not been in the drift cavern for more than two
                        hours, and Sam, observing his prolonged absence, said:
                    "Tom, I'm afraid some of us have hurt poor Joe's feelings. Go and look
                        at your water-mark, and while you are out, find the poor fellow and find out what's the
                        matter with him. He's a good boy and has done his part faithfully ever since we
                        started. I can't bear to think of him moping."
                    Tom went out and examined his stake, which showed that the water was not more than an inch  or two over the bank, and was not rising very rapidly now; but he
                        could see nothing of Joe anywhere. He went to the look out, but the boy was not there, and a
                        diligent search through the driftpile, showed that he was nowhere in the neighborhood of the
                        fortress. Tom was now fairly alarmed, and returning, was about to report the facts to Sam, when
                        little Judie, in a whisper, informed him that the big brother was asleep. As his fever had risen
                        somewhat, Judie rightly thought it better not to disturb him, as he certainly could not aid in
                        any way in finding Joe.
                    "I must just think," Tom said to himself," as Sam does, and then I can
                        do all there is to be done. Now I know Joe isn't anywhere in the hammock, because I
                        knew every place he could squeeze himself into, and I've looked in every one of them.
                        It's no use then to waste time looking there any more. He must have left here, either
                        accidentally or on purpose. He couldn't have slipped off the drift and drowned, because
                        he can swim pretty well and would have swam out in a minute. There is no other way in which he
                        can have left here by accident, unless an Indian has killed him on the driftpile  somewhere, and if that were so I would have found his body. He
                        must have run away on purpose."
                    But just as Tom reached this point in his. thinking he remembered the earnestness with which poor
                        Joe had begged him to bear witness in any and every event that he was not "a runaway
                        nigger." And this reminded Tom of all the queer ways he had noticed in Joe of late. The
                        boy must have had a premonition, he thought, that something was going to happen to him. Only two
                        theories remained. One was that Joe had gone crazy under his long exile from civilized life and
                        had madly put an end to himself by jumping into the river; and the other that, persisting in his
                        belief in the instability of the drift-pile, he had gone to the upper bank for safety and had
                        fallen asleep there. In that event he must be found, lest an Indian should discover him in the
                        morning and put him to death. Tom went ashore after explaining his purpose to Judie, so that she
                        might not be alarmed at his absence, and literally spent the entire night in hunting for the
                        black boy. Joe was nowhere to be found, and when daylight came, 
                        Tom saw that a further search was of no use whatever, and he therefore returned sadly to the
                        drift cavern. The water was now going down again, and the bank was free from it, but the sand in
                        the root fortress was still too wet to sit or lie upon, and so Tom made no immediate preparation
                        for their return.
                    Sam's fever was very slight that morning, and his first question was about Joe. Tom told
                        him of his night's search, and Sam's deduction from all the facts was that the
                        poor boy had committed suicide, had been killed by an Indian and thrown into the river, or had
                        fallen in accidentally and drowned.
                    "He would never have left us in any case," said Sam, "and even had he
                        been less faithful, he would have been afraid to run away, not knowing where to run or how to
                        take care of himself in the woods."
                    They were too much grieved for Joe's loss, to relish their breakfast, and that meal was
                        dispatched very quickly. Tom watched the falling of the water all day, and at night reported
                        that the river was well inside its banks again.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                    A FAMINE.
                    THE river having gone down until no water remained on the sandy bank, Tom reported the fact and
                        added,
                    "Now let's move back again to the root-fortress. It's a safer place
                        than this, by a good deal, if it isn't quite so big or quite so comfortable."
                    "No, we mustn't go back yet," said Judie, who had visited the fortress
                        before Tom had, "because the sand in there is as wet as can be, and I can't
                        let my big sick brother lie on it."
                    "There, Tom," said Sam, "my doctor forbids my return yet awhile, and a
                        sick man always must obey the doctor you know. Besides, Judie is right. It won't do for
                        any of us to lie on wet sand; we must wait till it dries; but that won't be very long
                        if the river continues to go down."
                    
                    Accordingly they spent one more night in the drift cavern. Early the next morning Judie went to
                        the fortress, and returning said, playing doctor.
                    "Now, then, Mr. Hardwicke, the floor of your lower house is quite dry, and I think it
                        will be safe to move back again. Will you have your breakfast first, or will you wait until you
                        get back home again before eating anything?"
                    "Oh, let's wait, by all means, and eat breakfast in the dear old
                        root-fortress," said Tom, and as Sam made no objection, it was so arranged.
                    By nine o'clock the moss carpet was laid in the root-fortress and the little party was
                        back in its old quarters again. The vacant corner which had been Joe's, reminded them
                        sadly of his disappearance. Poor fellow! they had learned to love him almost as a brother, and
                        they could not think of him now without tears. When three people sit down with a silent grief,
                        their conversation is very apt to be lively, or, if they cannot quite accomplish, that, they are
                        sure to talk only of indifferent matters, and so it was in the present case. Judie was the first
                        to break the silence which had fallen upon all.
                    
                    "Tom," she said playfully, "I'm afraid you're not a
                        good provider. Here we are, hungry as wolves, and you haven't brought us a mite of
                        anything to eat. You've moved everything but the provisions, and you've
                        forgotten them entirely."
                    Master Tom admitted the grievousness of his fault and returned at once to the drift cavern after
                        the forgotten provision pack. The bread, as they all knew, was long ago exhausted, but plenty of
                        meat remained, and this Tom presently brought When he opened the pack a disagreeable odor spread
                        itself at once over the little room.
                    "Phew! what's that?" said Tom, and putting his nose to the meat, he
                        looked up in. blank consternation, saying:
                    "The meat is spoiled, Sam! What on earth shall we do?"
                    The case was an alarming one certainly. They were hungry, and Sam, whose returning health had
                        brought with it a ravenous appetite, was particularly so. He needed wholesome, nourishing food
                        now more than anything else, as he knew.
                    "Well," he said, after thinking the matter over, "it can't be
                        helped. There's nothing for it but to  fall back on sweet
                        potatoes till I get strong enough to go hunting. You must go to the potato field Tom, and bring
                        some."
                    There had been but one field of com in the neighborhood at first, and the various parties of
                        Indians who had camped in its vicinity had long ago carried away the last ear of corn from that,
                        as the boys knew very well. The river was altogether too high now for mussels to be got, and so
                        the sweet potatoes in a field half a mile away, were their only resource.
                    Tom sat out at once in quest of them, carefully looking out for lurking savages. He was gone more
                        than an hour, and just as Sam was growing really uneasy on his account, he returned, empty handed!
                    
                    "There isn't a potato in the field," he said as he sat down in utter
                        dejection. "The Indians have dug every one of them."
                    This announcement was indeed an alarming one to the whole party. They were without an ounce of
                        food of any sort within their utmost reach, and it was plain that they must starve, unless they
                        could hit upon some new device, by which to get a supply.
                    
                    "I must go hunting, sick or well," said Sam rising; but he had no sooner got
                        upon his feet, than he felt the utter impossibility of doing anything of the kind.
                    "It's of no use," he said sadly. "I can't make my
                        legs carry me, Tom, and so we must depend upon you. Go into the woods there by the creek, and
                        sit down or stand still till you see something in the way of game, and then take good aim before
                        you shoot, for we mustn't waste any of our powder."
                    With this he shook the horn to ascertain how much remained in it, and was horrified to find it
                        empty! Tom remembered that the last time he had loaded the gun he had used the last grain of
                        powder in the horn.
                    "Well, then," said Sam, "we have only one charge of powder between us
                        and starvation, and it won't do to waste that, Tom. You can shoot pretty well when you
                        have time enough to take good aim, and I suppose, if you make up your mind beforehand that you
                        won't shoot till you know you can kill what you shoot at, it is safe enough. At any
                        rate we must risk it. Remember, however, that you mustn't run the risk of wasting  this load in your anxiety to kill the first thing you see to
                        shoot at. There is plenty of game in the woods, so if you can't get a sure shot at one
                        thing, wait for another. Get a sure shot anyhow, if it takes you all day. It must be something
                        big enough to last us awhile, too. You mustn't shoot at anything less than a turkey or
                        a 'possum, and you mustn't shoot at all till you get very
                        close, because if you miss, we will starve. Better take all day to-day and all day to-morrow
                        than to miss when you fire."
                    And after many instructions and cautionings, Tom sallied forth in search of game. Going into the
                        woods for a considerable distance, he sat down on a log in the thick undergrowth and waited
                        patiently for the appearance of some animal which could be eaten. Hour after hour passed, and
                        Tom fell asleep. How long he slept he did not know, but waking suddenly he saw a flock of wild
                        turkeys within a few yards of him. Raising his gun and taking a very deliberate aim he pulled
                        the trigger. No explosion followed, but the clicking of the hammer was enough to put the game to
                        flight.
                    Poor Tom was disheartened, but it would not  do to give up, and so
                        he carefully picked the edge of his flint with his knife and walked further into the woods.
                    He had not walked very far, with cautious steps, when he heard a rustling in the bushes just
                        ahead of him. At first he thought it must be an Indian, and drawing back he waited for further
                        developments. A grunt soon enlightened him as to the character of the game, and creeping through
                        the bushes he found himself close to a fat young hog, one of the many running wild in those
                        woods and thickets. That was something worth having. Levelling his gun again, he again pulled
                        the trigger, but without effect, and opening the pan he discovered that during the rain, while
                        in the drift cavern, the "priming," as the powder in the pan is called, had
                        been reduced to a paste by water. To fire the gun was out of the question, and so clubbing it,
                        Tom ran at the hog and dealt him a blow on the head, hoping in that way to secure the game which
                        he could not shoot. The blow fell upon the nose of the animal, however, and while it brought a
                        squeal of pain from him, it produced no beneficial result. The hog ran rapidly away, and  Tom was left with nothing better than a broken gun to carry back
                        to the fortress.
                    Arriving there about three o'clock in the afternoon he told the doleful story of his
                        failure, and sitting down burst into tears.
                    "Come, come!" said Sam. "This will never do, old fellow. It's
                        bad enough as it is without crying about it. We'll come all right if you'll
                        only keep your courage up, and give me a chance to think. I'm getting better every day
                        now, and if we can only hold out a few days longer, I'll be on my feet again, and then
                        we'll go straight to Fort Glass. Just as soon as I can walk at all, we'll
                        start, meantime we must get something to eat, and to do that I must think. Let me see. The gun
                        is of no use now, but there are other ways of getting game besides shooting it: We must set some
                        traps. This spoiled meat will do for bait. Get me a good piece of poplar wood, Tom, or cypress,
                        or some other sort, that I can whittle easily, and I'll make some figure-four triggers.
                        Then I'll tell you how to make dead-falls, and you must set as many of them as you can
                        to make sure of getting something to eat by to-morrow morning."
                    
                    Tom brought the wood and Sam soon whittled out several sets of triggers.
                    "Now do you know how to set a trap with these triggers, Tom?" he asked.
                    "Yes, I've set many a partridge trap with figure fours."
                    "Very well then. Now you must set deadfalls in the same way. That is, instead of a trap
                        you must set a log. You see I've made the triggers big and strong, and you must put
                        them under one end of as heavy a log as you can lift. Then you must lay other logs on top to
                        make it as heavy as possible, and bait it with a piece of the spoilt meat. If anything
                        undertakes to eat the meat tonight, the dead-fall will break its neck or back, sure. Here are
                        six sets of triggers and you must set six dead-falls. We can go hungry till tomorrow,
                        can't we, little woman?" chucking Judie under the chin.
                    "We can try, anyhow," answered the little woman as cheerfully as she could,
                        though she was by no means confident that she could do anything of the sort. She was already
                        faint and almost sick, and whether she could live till morning or not  was an undetermined question in her mind. To tell the truth, Sam himself felt but
                        little confidence in his device. The spoiled meat, he knew, would attract only the larger
                        animals, and such dead-falls as Tom could set were by no means certain to kill these in their
                        fall. It was the very best thing he could do, however, and he must trust to it in the absence of
                        any better reliance. He concealed his anxiety therefore, and after receiving Tom's
                        report of his operations in dead-fall setting, he drew Judie to his side and told her a fairy
                        story, as night fell. All went to sleep at last, and when morning came Sam aroused Tom very
                        early and sent him to examine the traps. The boy was gone for an hour or more, when he returned
                        with downcast countenance. Two of the traps had been thrown, but there was no game under them,
                        while the four others remained undisturbed.
                    Here was a bad out-look certainly, and they had not tasted food now for more than thirty
                    hours!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII.
                    WHICH ENDS THE STORY.
                    OMETHING must be done," said Sam, as soon as he had heard Tom's report,
                        "and quickly too. Let me think a few minutes. We are beginning now to be hungry enough
                        to eat anything, and when people get that hungry there are a good many things that can be eaten.
                        I'll tell you what we must do, Tom"
                    But what it was that Sam had hit upon, Tom never knew. Just as this point in the conversation was
                        reached Joe came running in through the alley-way, his face flattened out into
                        a broad grin of delight, his teeth and eyes shining, while he danced all over the fortress,
                        shaking hands over and over again, and saying,
                    "Hi! Miss Judie! Hi! Mas' Tom! Hi! Mas' Sam! How does ye all do now?
                        Did you  think Joe had runned away? Joe tell ye he never runned
                        away. Joe ain't no runaway nigger, nohow at all, and de Ingins ain't ketched
                        Joe nuther. Joe's back all safe an' sound, sartin sure! Hi!"
                    "What on earth ails you, Joe? You're out of your wits, poor fellow,"
                        said Sam, convinced that the black boy was demented.
                    "No I ain't nuther," Mas' Sam, he replied., "Joe
                        ain't crazy one bit, but he's glad sure"
                    "Where have you been, Joe, since you left us?"
                    "Whar? Why to de fort, an' I'se dun brung back a rescue too,
                        didn't I tell you? Laws a massy, dat's what I corned in fust for to tell you.
                        I'se done been to Fort Glass and brung a big rescue party, and de white folks dey said,
                        long as Joe brung us he's 'titled to tell de good news fust, an'
                        dat's how I'm here while de rest is outside de drif."
                    "Go and see, Tom," said Sam, afraid to believe this story of the seemingly
                        insane boy, who, he thought, had become crazed from long brooding over the chances of rescue.
                        Tom got up to go, but as he started Mr. Hardwicke himself met him 
                        in the door way and caught him in his in the do in the door way and caught him in his arms.
                        Tandy Walker was just behind.
                    "Well, this beats all," said Tandy. "I've done a good many
                        jobs o' rescuin' in my time, but I never yit found the rescued hid in the
                        roots of a tree an' fortified with a drift-pile. An' if I'm a jedge
                        o' sich things, this here party's a'most starved. I've seed
                        hungry people afore now, an' I say le's have a breakfast sot right away for
                        these here little ones."
                    Tandy was right, as we know, and it was not long before an abundant breakfast was spread for Sam
                        and Tom and little Judie. The rescue party consisted of twenty stout fellows from the fort, and
                        after breakfast a rude litter was provided for Sam, and crossing the river in the little canoe
                        the party began its homeward march. Tom was glad to walk, the walk being in that direction.
                        Judie was carried, part of the time in her father's arms, part of it in Tandy
                        Walker's, and part on the broad shoulders of Caesar, the negro man who had participated
                        in the canoe fight. Sam was stretched on a litter, carried by four of the men, and Joe insisted
                        on walking always by his side, though he fell behind now and then for the purpose of dancing  a little jig of delight. He would execute this movement, and then
                        running, catch up with the litter again.
                    "Tell me, Joe," said Sam after the black boy had become somewhat quiet again,
                        "tell me all about this thing."
                    "'Bout what thing, Mas' Sam?"
                    "About your going to the fort and all that. How did you manage it, and how came you to
                        think of it?"
                    "Well, you see, Mas' Sam, when you was at your wust, I got a thinkin',
                        an' I thought out a plan dat Mas' Tom said was a good un. Him an' me
                        was to make a raf out'n cane, an' pole it up de river wid you an'
                        little Miss Judie on it, an' den I was to go cross de country to de fort an'
                        bring help. Jes' as we got de raf ready, howsomever, Mas' Tom he axed me if I
                        know de way to defort, an' as I didn't know nothin' 'bout
                        it, I jis' sot down an' gived up. But I kep' a thinkin' all
                        de time, an' I said to myself, ' Joe, you're a fool anyhow,
                        an' you mustn't tell your plans till you know dey're good uns,
                        an' you ain't got sense enough to know dat till you try
                        'em.' An' so I sot my head to work to 
                        git up a new plan, meanin' to try it all by myself. When de big fight took place
                        an' I seed the white folks marchin' away, I said out 'loud,
                        'dem dare folks is gwine right straight to de fort,' an' I said to
                        myself,' I means to go dere too if I kin.' It took me two days 'n
                        more to git de thing fixed up right in my min'.
                    "I was willin' enough to risk Injuns, but I was afear'd you'n
                        Mas' Tom 'ud think Joe was a runaway nigger if I never corned back,
                        an' dat troubled me. I fixed dat at las' by makin' Mas' Tom
                        mos' swar he'd stick to it dat I wasn't no runaway nigger,
                        an' den I sot out. I crossed de river in de little canoe an' hid her in de
                        bushes. I found de place whar de white folks started from, an' I jes' follered
                        dere trail. Dat was my plan. I know'd dey would make a big easy trail, dere was so many
                        of 'em, an I meant to follow 'em. It took me more'n two whole nights
                        to git to de fort, dough, 'cause de creeks was all high an' de brush very
                        tangley. When I tole de folks about you'n Miss Judie an' Mas' Tom,
                        dey didn't more'n half believe me, an' when I tole 'em
                        I'd lead 'em straight to whar you was, an', dey said dey'd
                        sculp me if I didn't, I jest  said all right,
                        'cause if we don' find Mas' Sam an' little Miss Judie
                        an' Mas' Tom no more, den I'd rather be sculped'n not,
                        anyhow. But we did fin' you, didn't we Mas' Sam?" and at
                        this Jo had to drop behind again and execute a rapid jig movement, as a relief to his feelings.
                    The government forces under General Jackson, together with the settlers themselves, were now
                        pressing the savages very hard. Battles were fought almost every day, and every battle weakened
                        the Indians. In December, General Claiborne invaded the Holy Ground, and utterly destroyed
                        Weatherford's command, as a result of which that chief surrendered to Jackson and the
                        war was practically at an end. A few more battles were necessary before a final peace could be
                        made, and the last of them was fought on the 27th of March, 1814, at Horseshoe Bend; but after
                        the battle of December 23d a little more than a month after Sam's party was rescued,
                        the country north and west of the Alabama river was comparatively free from savages, whs no
                        longer dared wander about in small bands, plundering and burning houses, and  the planters began to return to their homes to get ready for
                        spring work.
                    When Mr. Hardwicke was about to go home with his children, he sent for Joe. When the boy came,
                        little Judie handed him a carefully folded document, saying,
                    "Here's a present for you, Joe
                    "What's dis?" asked Joe, unable to guess what possible use he could
                        have for such a paper as that, inasmuch as he couldn't read it to save his life.
                    "These are your free papers, Joe," said Sam. Father has
                        bought you from Mr. Butler, for the purpose of setting you free, as a reward for your good
                        conduct."
                    Joe evidently wanted to say something, but did not know how.
                    "Are you glad to be free, Joe?" asked Mr. Hardwicke.
                    "Ain't I though?" and Joe's feet began to shuffle as if a jig
                        were coming in spite of his desire to behave well.
                    "Well, Joe," said Mr. Hardwicke, "I mean to give you a fair chance in
                        life, and I've thought the  matter over carefully. You
                        are free now to do precisely as you please, and you can live where you jike. But I've a
                        proposition to makea plan for you. Do you know my cypress farmthe little one down in the fork of
                        the two creeks?"
                    "De one whar' ole uncle Peter Dun lived so long?"
                    "Yes, the one uncle Peter manages for me."
                    "Yes, master, I knows dat place mighty well."
                    "Well, how would you like to buy it, Joe?"
                    "Buy the farm, master? What's Joe got to buy wid? I ain't got no
                        money, 'thout it's a quarter Mas' Tandy Walker dun gim me fur to
                        clean his boots sence we corned back to de fort, an' I jest know that a quarter
                        won't buy no sich low grounds as dem dar down twix' dem dar creeks is.
                        Dat's de very bes' lan' in Alabama. Leastways I dun hear de folks say
                        'tis heaps o' times. You's jokin' wid Joe, master."
                    "No, I am not, Joe. You can buy the land if you want it, and there are a hundred and ten
                        acres in the tract, besides the strip of woods along both creeks."
                    "How's I gwine to buy it, master?"
                    
                    "Well, let me see. You're about thirteen now. It will be nine years yet before
                        you will be a man, and if you choose to live with me until you are twenty-one, I'll
                        feed and clothe you till then, and the day you are twenty-one the farm shall be yours in payment
                        of wages."
                    "How you mean, master?"
                    "I mean, that besides feeding and clothing you as I feed and clothe my people, I will
                        give you the farm for your nine years' work. If you like the place, I will have all the
                        papers made out, so that the farm will be yours, even if I should die before the time is up. I
                        have more land than I care to keep, and you see I want to sell that one farm to you, if
                        you'll buy it."
                    "Looks to me, heap more like's if you was gwine to give it to me, master; dis
                        on'y your fun to say I buy's it."
                    "No, the bargain is a fair one, Joe. I could give you the farm now, but I think it will
                        be better for you to work for it, and then you'll feel that it's yours by
                        right and not by favor. I want to make a man of you, Joe, and my children shall always think of
                        you as one of their best friends. Go out of doors  if you want to
                        dance, Joe," seeing the feet beginning to shuffle, and understanding the mingled joy
                        and embarrassment of the boy.
                    Joe hesitated a moment, and then with a sudden straightening of his shoulders, as. if the future
                        manliness were already beginning to assert itself in him, he advanced to Mr. Hardwicke, and
                        shaking his hand, said:
                    "Joe ain't got no learnin' an' no manners nuther, master, but
                        Joe's grateful anyhow," and bursting into tears the boy left
                        the room.
                    THE END.
                
            
        
        
            
            
                CAPITAL BOOKS FOR BOYS.
                Published by G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS, 4th AVE. AND 23d STREET, NEW YORK.
                I.
                THE BOY WITH AN IDEA; by Mrs. Eiloart, author of "Chris Fairlie's
                    Boyhood," &c. Illustrated, cloth extra, $1.75.
                II.
                THE YOUNG MECHANIC; Practical Carpentry. Containing Directions for the use of Tools, and for the
                    Construction of Steam-Engines and Mechanical Models, including the Art of Turning in Wood and Metal.
                    Illustrated, octavo, cloth extra, $1.75.
                III.
                THE REALM OF THE ICE-KING; by the author of "Savedfrom the Wreck." Illustrated,
                    cloth extra, $2.00
                This will be found a most attractive volume of Arctic Travels and Adventures.
                IV.
                WONDERS OF THE DEEP; by Prof. Schele De Vere. Contents: Pearls, Corals, Oysters, a Pinch of Salt, a
                    Grain of Sand, Odd Fish, Lighthouses, Mercury, &c, &c, &c. Illustrated,
                    cloth extra, $1.50
                "One of the freshest, most scientific, and at the same time, most popular and delightful
                    books of the kind we have ever read,"St. John's Telegraph.
                
                V.
                THE LIFE AND JOURNALS OF JOHN J. AUDUBON, THE NATURALIST. Comprising narrations of his expeditions in
                    the American Forests, &c. 12mo., cloth extra, gilt top, $2.25
                "It is a grand story of a grand life, more instructive than a sermon, more romantic than a
                        romance."Harper's Magasine
                
                Any of the above sent, postpaid, on the receipt of price.
            
            
            
                Putnams' Scrus of Popular Manuals.
                HALF-HOURS WITH THE MICROSCOPE.
                By EDWIN LANKester, M.D., F R.S. Illustrated by 250 Drawings from Natuie. 12mo, cloth, $1.25.
                HALF-HOURS WITH THE TELESCOPE:
                Being a popular Guide to the Use of the Telescope as a means of Amusement and Instruction. Adapted to
                    inexpensive instruments. By R. A. PROCTOR, B.A., F.R.A.S. 12mo, cloth, with illustrations on stone
                    and wood. Price, $1.25.
                "It is crammed with starry platcs on wood and stone, and among the celestlal phenomena
                    described or figured, by faar the larger number4 may be profitably examined with small
                        telescopes."Illustrated Times.
                
                HALF-HOURS WITH THE STARS:
                A Plain and Easy Guide to the Knowledge of the Constellatiorvs. showing in 12 Maps, the Position of
                    the Principal StarGroups Night after Night throughout the Year, with introduction and a separate
                    explanation of each Map. True for every Year. By RICHARD A. PROCTOR, B.A., F.R.A.S. Demy 4to. Price,
                    $2.25.
                "Nothing so well calculated to give a rapid and thorongh knowledge of the position of the
                    stars in the firmament has ever been designed or published hitherto. Mr. Proctor's
                    Half-Hours wiht the Stars' will become a text-book in all schools, and an invaluabie tid to
                    all teachers of the young."Weekly Times.
                
                MANUAL OF POPULAR PHYSIOLOGY:
                Being an Attempt to Explain the Science of Life in Jntechnical Language. By HENRY LAWSON, M.D. 18mo,
                    with 90 Illustrations. Price, $1.25.
                Man's Mechanism. Life. Force, Food, Digestion, Respiratton, Heat, the Skin, the Kidneys,
                    Nervous System, Organs of Sense, &c, &c, &c.
                "Dr Lawso has succeeded in rendering his mannal amnsing as well as instructive. All the
                    great facts in human physiology bare prescnted to the readcr successively; and either for private
                    reading or for classcs, this manual will be found well adated for initiating the uninformed into the
                    mysteries of the structure and function of their own bodies."Athenaeum.
                
                WOMAN BEFORE THE LAW.
                By JOHN PROFFATT, LL.E., of the New York Bar. CONTENTS.I. Former Status of Women. II. Legal
                    Conditions of Marriage. III. Personal Rights and Disabilities of the Wife. IV. Rights of Property,
                    Real and Personal. V. Dower. VI. Reciprocal Rights and Duties of Mother and Children. VII. Divorce.
                12mo, cloth, $1. Half bound, $1.25.
                BASTIAT. SOPHISMS OF PROTECTION.
                By FREDERIC BASTIAT. With Preface by HORACE WHITE. Cloth. Price $1.00.
            
        
    
