
     ----CITATION---- 
        Eggleston, Edward, 1837-1902. The Hoosier Schoolmaster: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA2344
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            	FRONTISPIECE
                
                    SHOCKY
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE HOOSIER SCHOOLMASTER 
                    A Story of Backwoods Life in Indiana
                
                REVISED with an introduction and Notes on the District by the Author,
                    EDWARD EGGLESTON
                    With Character Sketches by F. OPPER and other Illustrations
                    by W. E. B. STARKWEATHER
                
                    GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS
                    NEW YORK
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by
                    ORANGE JUDD & CO.,
                In the office of the Librarian of congress, at Washington.
                Copyright, 1892 By ORANGE JUDD COMPANY.
                Copyright, 1899 By EDWARD EGGLESTON.
            
            
            
            	DEDICATION
                AS A PEBBLE CAST UPON A GREAT CAIRN, THIS EDITION IS INSCRIBED TO THE MEMORY OF
                    JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL, WHOSE CORDIAL ENCOURAGEMENT TO MY EARLY STUDIES OF
                    AMERICAN DIALECT IS GRATEFULLY REMEMBERED.
                THE AUTHOR.
            
            
            
                PREFACE TO THE LIBRARY EDITION.
                BEING THE HISTORY OF A STORY.
                "THE HOOSIER SCHOOL-MASTER" was written and printed in
                    the autumn of 1871. It is therefore now about twenty-one years old, and the
                    publishers propose to mark its coming of age by issuing a library edition. I
                    avail myself of the occasion to make some needed revision, and to preface the
                    new edition with an account of the origin and adventures of the book. If I
                    should seem to betray unbecoming pride in speakng of a story that has passed
                    into several languages and maintained an undiminished popularity for more than a
                    score of years, I count on receiving the indulgence commonly granted to paternal
                    vanity when celebrating the majority of a first-born. With all its faults on its
                    head, this little tale has become a classic, in the bookseller's sense
                    at least; and a public that has shown so constant a partiality for it has a
                    right to feel some curiosity regarding its history. I persuade myself that
                    additional extenuation for  this biography of a book
                    is to be found in the relation which "The Hoosier
                    School-Master" happens to bear to the most significant movement in
                    American literature in our generation. It is the file-leader of the procession
                    of American dialect novels. Before the appearance of this story, the New England
                    folk-speech had long been employed for various literary purposes, it is true;
                    and after its use by Lowell, it had acquired a standing that made it the classic
                        lingua rustica of the United States. Even Hoosiers and
                    Southerners when put into print, as they sometimes were in rude burlesque
                    stories usually talked about" huskin' bees
                    "and" appleparin' bees and used many other
                    expressions foreign to their vernacular. American literature hardly touched the
                    speech and life of the people outside of New England; in other words, it was
                    provincial in the narrow sense.
                I can hardly suppose that "The Hoosier School-Master" bore any
                    causative relation to that broader provincial movement in our literature which
                    now includes such remarkable productions as the writings of Mr. Cable, Mr.
                    Harris, Mr. Page, Miss Murfree, Mr. Richard Malcom Johnson, Mr. Howe, Mr.
                    Garland, some of Mrs. Burnett's stories and others quite worthy of
                    inclusion in this list. The taking up of life in this regional way has made our
                         literature really national by the only process
                    possible. The Federal nation has at length manifested a consciousness of the
                    continental deversity of its forms of life. The "great American
                    novel," for which prophetic critics yearned so fondly twenty years ago,
                    is appearing in sections. I may claim for this book the distinction, such as it
                    is, of being the first of the dialect stories that depict a life quite beyond
                    New England influence. Some of Mr. Bret Harte's brief and powerful
                    tales had already foreshadowed this movement toward a larger rendering of our
                    life. But the romantic character of Mr. Harte's delightful stones and
                    the absence of anything that can justly be called dialect in them mark them as
                    rather forerunners than beginners of the prevailing school. For some years after
                    the appearance of the present novel, my own stories had to themselves the field
                    of provincial realism (if, indeed, there be any such thing as realism) before
                    there came the succession of fine productions which have made the last fourteen
                    years notable.
                Though it had often occurred to me to write something in the dialect now known as
                    Hoosierthe folk-speech of the southern part of Ohio, Indr^STMn^iT^rioTtyyeafs
                    agoI had postponed the attempt indefinitely, probably because the only literary
                    use that had been made of theiana, and Illisnos of forty years agoI had
                    postponed the attempt indefinitely, probably because the only literary use that
                    had been made of the  allied speech of the Southwest
                    had been in the books of the primitive humorists of that region.I found it hard
                    to dissociate in my own mind the dialect from the somewhat coarse boisterousness
                    which seemed inseparable from it in the works of these rollicking writers. It
                    chanced that in 1871 Taine's lectures on "Art in the
                    Netherlands," or rather Mr. John Durand's translation of them,
                    fell into my hands as a book for editorial review. These disxcourses are little
                    else than an elucidation of the thesis that the artist of originality will work
                    courageously with the materials he finds in his own environment. In
                    Taine's view, all life has matter for the artist, if only he have eyes
                    to see.
                Many years previous to the time of which I am now speaking, while I was yet a
                    young man, I had projected a lecture on the Hoosier folk-speech, and had even
                    printed during the war a little political skit in that dialect in a St. Paul
                    paper. So far as I know, nothing else had ever been printed in the Hoosier.
                    Under the spur of Taine' argument, I now proceeded to write a short
                    story wholly in the dialect spoken in my childhood by rustics on the north side
                    of the Ohio River. This tale I called]" The Hoosier
                    School-Master." It consisted almost entirely of an autobiographical
                    narratrion in by Mirandy Means of the incidents that form the  groundwork of the present story. I was the newly
                    installed editor of a weekly journal, Hearth and Home, and I sent this little
                    story in a new dialect to my printer. It chanced that one of the proprietors of
                    the paper saw a part of it in proof. He urged me to take it back and make a
                    longer story out of the materials, and he expressed great confidence in the
                    success of such a story. Yielding to his suggestion, I began to write this novel
                    from week to week as it appeared in the paper, and thus found myself involved in
                    the career of a novelist, which had up to that time formed no part of my plan of
                    life. In_my inexperience I worked at a white-heat, completing the book in ten
                    weeks. Long before these weeks of eager toil were over, it was a question among
                    my friends whether the novel might not write flims to the
                    before I should see the end of it see the end of it.
                The sole purpose I had in view at first was the resuscitation of the
                    dead-and-alive newspaper of Which I had ventured to take charge. One of the firm
                    of publishers thought much less favorably of my story than his partner did. I
                    was called into the private office and informed with some severity that my
                    characters were too rough to be presentable in a paper so refined as ours. I
                    confess they did seem somewhat too robust for a sheet so anmic  as Hearth and Home had been in
                    the months just preceding. But when, the very next week after this protest was
                    made, the circulation of the paper increased some thousands at a bound, my
                    cmployer's critical estimate of the work underwent a rapid changea
                    change based on what seemed to him better than merely literary considerations.
                    By the time the story closed, at the end of fourteen instalments, the
                    subscription list had multiplied itself four or five fold. It is only fair to
                    admit, however, that the original multiplicand had been rather small.
                Papers in Canada and in some of the other English colonies transferred the novel
                    bodily to their columns, and many of the American country papers helped
                    themselves to it quite freely. It had run some weeks of its course before it
                    occurred to any one that it might profitably be reprinted in book form. The
                    publishers were loath to risk much in the venture. The newspaper type was
                    rejustified to make a book page, and barely two thousand copies were printed for
                    a first edition. I remember expressing the opinion that the number was too
                    large.
                "The Hoosier School Master" was pirated with the utmost
                    promptitude by the Messrs. Routledge, in England, for that was in the barbarous
                    days before  international copyright, when English
                    publishers complained of the unscrupulousness of American re-printers, while
                    they themselves pounced upon every line of American production that promised
                    some shillings of profit. "The Hoosier School-Master" was
                    brought out in English in a cheap, sensational form. The edition of ten thousand
                    has long been out of print. For this large edition and for the editions issued
                    in the British colonies and in continental Europe I have never received a penny.
                    A great many men have made money out of the book, but my own returns have been
                    comparatively small. For its use in serial form I received nothing beyond my
                    salary as editor. On the copyright edition I have received the moderate royalty
                    allowed to young authors at the outset of their work. The sale of the American
                    edition in the first twenty years amounted to seventy thousand copies. The
                    peculiarity of this sale is its steadiness. After twenty years, "The
                    Hoosier School-Master"is selling at the average rate of more than three
                    thousand copies per annum. During the last half dozen years the popularity of
                    the book has apparently increased, and its twentieth year closed with a sale of
                    twenty-one hundred in six months. Only those who are familiar with the book
                    trade and who know how brief is the life of the average  novel will understand how exceptional is this long-continued
                    popularity.
                Some of the newspaper reviewers of twenty years ago were a little puzzled to know
                    what to make of a book in so questionable a shape, for the American dialect
                    novel was then a new-comer. But nothing could have given a beginner more genuine
                    pleasure than the cordial commendation of the leading professional critic of the
                    time, the late Mr. George Ripley, who wrote an extended review of this book for
                    the Tribune. The monthly magazines all spoke of "The
                    Hoosier School-Master"in terms as favorable as it deserved. I cannot
                    pretend that I was content with these notices at the time, for I had the
                    sensitiveness of a beginner. But on looking at the review in the faults pointed
                    out in the work of to find that the faults pointed out in the work of my
                    prentice hand arc just those that I should be disposed to complain of now, if it
                    were any part of my business to tell the reader wherein I might have done
                    better.
                
                    The Nation, then in its youth, honored "The Hoosier
                    School-Master" by giving it two pages, mostly in discussion of its
                    dialect, but dispensing paradoxical praise and censure in that condescending way
                    with which we are all familiar enough. According to its critic, the author had
                    understood and  described the old Western life, but
                    he had done it "quite sketchily, to be sure." Yet it was done
                    "with essential truth and some effectiveness." The critic,
                    however, instantly stands on the other foot again and adds that the book
                    "is not a captivating one ". But he makes amends in the very
                    next sentence by an allusion to "the faithfulness of its transcript of
                    the life it depicts," and then instantly balances the account on the
                    adverse side of the ledger by assuring the reader that "it has no
                    interest of passion or mental power". But even this fatal conclusion is
                    diluted by a dependent clause. "Possibly," says the reviewer,
                    "the good feeling of the intertwined love story may conciliate the
                    good-will of some of the malcontent." One could hardly carry further
                    the fine art of oscillating between moderate commendation and parenthetical
                    damnation an art that lends a factitious air of judicial impartiality and mental
                    equipoise. Beyond question, The Nation is one of the ablest
                    weekly papers in the world; the admirable scholarship of its articles and
                    reviews in departments of special knowledge might well be a subject of pride to
                    any American. But its inadequate reviews of current fiction add nothing to its
                    value, and its habitual tone of condescending depreciation in treating
                    imaginative literate of indigenous origin is one 
                    of the strongest discouragements to literary production.
                The main value of good criticism lies in its readiness and penetration in
                    discovering and applauding merit not before recognized, or imperfectly
                    recognized. This a conspicuous trait of Sainte-Beuve, the greatest of all
                    newspaper critics. He knew how to be severe upon occasion, but he saw talent in
                    advance of the public and dispensed encouragement heartily, so that he made
                    himself almost a foster-father to the literature of his generation in France.
                    But there is a class of anonymous reviewers in England and America who seem to
                    hold a traditional theory that the function of a critic toward new-born talent
                    is analogous to that of Pharaoh toward the infant Jewish population.1
                    
                        1
                        Since writing the passege in the text, I have met with the following in
                                The Speaker, of London: "Everybody knows
                            that when an science, the editor of a respectable paper employs an
                            expert to review it; . . . indeed, the more abstruse the subject of the
                            book, the more careful and intelligent you will find the review. . . .
                            It is equally well known that works of fiction and books of verse are
                            not treated with anything like the same care. . . . A good poem, play,
                            or novel is at least as fine an achievement as a good history; yet the
                            history gets the benefit of an expert's judgment and two
                            columns of thoughtful praise or censure, while the poem, play, or novel
                            is treated to ten skitish lines by the hack who happens to be
                            within nearest call when the book comes in."
                    
                
                During the first year after its publication "The  Hoosier School-Master" was translated into French and
                    published in a condensed form in the Revue des Deux Mondes.
                    The translator was the writer who signs the name M. Th. Bentzon, and who is well
                    known to be Madame Blanc. This French version afterward appeared in book form in
                    the same volume with one of Mr. Thomas Bailey Aldrich's stories and
                    some other stories of mine. In this latter shape I have never seen it. The title
                    given to the story by Madame Blanc was "Le Matre
                    d'cole de Flat Creek." It may be imagined that the
                    translator found it no easy task to get equivalents in French for expressions in
                    a dialect new and strange. "I'll be
                    dog-on'd" appears in French as "devil take
                    me" ("diable m'emporte"),
                    which is not bad; the devil being rather a jolly sort of fellow, in French.
                    "The Church of the Best Licks "seems rather unrenderable, and
                    I do not see how the translator could have found a better phrase for it than "L'Eglise des Rach'cs"
                    though "raclcs" does not convey
                    the double sense of "licks." "Jim
                        epelait vite comme l'clair" is not a good renering of
                    "Jim spelled like lightning," since it is not the celerity of
                    the spelling that is the main consideration. "Concours
                        d'epellation" is probably the best equivalent for
                    "spelling-school," but it seems something more stately in its
                    French dress. When Bud says, with  reference to
                    Hannah, "I never took no shine that air way," the phrase is
                    rather too idiomatic for the French tongue, and it becomes "I
                    haven't run after that hare "("Je
                        n'ai pas chass ce livre-la").
                    Perhaps the most sadly amusing thing in the translation is the way the meaning
                    of the nickname Shocky is missed in an explanatory foot-note. It is, according
                    to the translator, an abbreviation or corruption of the English word
                    "shocking," which expresses the shocking ugliness of the
                        child"qui exprime la laideur choquante de
                        l'enfant."
                
                A German version of "The Hoosier School-Master "was made about
                    the time of the appearance of the French translation, but of this I have never
                    seen a copy. I know of it only from the statement made to me by a German
                    professor, that he had read it in German before he knew any English. What are
                    the equivalents in High German for "right smart"and
                    "dog-on"I cannot imagine.
                Several years after the publication of "The Hoosier School-Master
                    "it occurred to Mr. H. Hansen, of Kige, in Denmark, to render
                    it into Danish. Among the Danes the book enjoyed a popularity as great, perhaps,
                    as it has had at home. The circulation warranted Mr. Hansen and his publisher in
                    bringing out several other novels of mine. The Danish translator was the only
                    person concerned in the  various foreign editions
                    of this book-who had the courtesy to ask the author's leave. Under the
                    old conditions in regard to international copyright, an author came to be
                    regarded as one not entitled even to common civilities in the matter of
                    reprinting his works he was to be plundered without politeness. As I look at the
                    row of my books in the unfamiliar Danish, I am reminded of that New England
                    mother who, on recovering her children carried away by the Canadian Indians,
                    found it impossible to communicate with a daughter who spoke only French and a
                    son who knew nothing but the speech of his savage captors. Mr. Hansen was
                    thoughtful enough to send me the reviews of my books in the Danish newspapers;
                    and he had the double kindness to translate these into English and to leave out
                    all but those that were likely to be agreeable to my vanity. Of these I remember
                    but a single sentence, and that because it was expressed with felicity. The
                    reviewer said of the fun in "The Hoosier School-Master:"
                    "This is humor laughing to keep from bursting into tears."
                A year or two before the appearance of "The Hoosier
                    School-Master," a newspaper article of mine touching upon American
                    dialect interested Mr. Lowell, and he urged me to "look for the foreign
                    influence "that has affected the speech of the Ohio River  country. My reverence for him as the master in
                    such studies did not prevent me from feeling that the suggestion was a little
                    absurd. But at a later period I became aware that North Irishmen used many of
                    the pronunciations and idioms that distinctly characterized the language of old
                    fashioned people on the Ohio. Many Ulster men say "wair" for
                    were and "air"for are, for example. Connecting this with the
                    existence of a considerable element of Scotch-Irish names in the Ohio River
                    region, I could not doubt that here was one of the keys the master had bidden me
                    look for. While pursuing at a later period a series of investigations into the
                    culture-history of the American people in the seventeenth and eighteenth
                    centuries, I became much interested in the emigration to America from the north
                    of Ire-great Irish-linen industry of the last century declined or prospered. The
                    first American home of these Irish was Pennsylvania. A portion of them were
                    steady-going, psalm-singing, money-getting people, who in course of time made
                    themselves felt in the commerce, politics, and intellectual life of the nation.
                    There was also a dare-devil element, descended perhaps from those rude borderers
                    who were deported to Ireland more for the sake of the peace of North Britain
                    than for the benefit of Ireland.  In this rougher
                    class there was perhaps a larger dash of the Celtic fire that came from the
                    Ulster made the mothers of their progeny. Arrived in the wilds of Pennsylvania,
                    these Irishmen built rude cabins, planted little patches of corn and potatoes,
                    and distilled a whiskey that was never suffered to grow mellow. The forest was
                    congenial to men who spent much the larger part of their time in boisterous
                    sport of one sort or another. The manufacture of the rifle was early brought to
                    Lancaster, in Pennsylvania, direct from the land of its invention by Swiss
                    emigrants, and in the adventurous Scotch-Irishman of the Pennsylvania frontier
                    the rifle found its fellow. Irish settlers became hunters of wild beasts,
                    explorers, pioneers, and warriors against the Indians, upon whom they avenged
                    their wrongs with relentless ferocity. Both the Irish race and the intermingled
                    Pennsylvania Dutch were prolific, and the up-country of Pennsylvania soon
                    overflowed. Emigration was held in check to the westward for a while by the
                    cruel massacres of the French and Indian wars, and one river of population
                    poured itself southward into the fertile valleys of the Virginia mountain
                    country; another and larger flood swept still farther to the south along the
                    eastern borders of the Appalachian range until  it
                    reached the uplands of Carolina. When the militia of one country in South
                    Carolina was mustered during the Revolution, it was found that every one of the
                    thirty-five hundred men enrolled were natives of Pennsylvania. These were mainly
                    sons of North Irishmen, and from the Carolina Irish sprang Calhoun, the most
                    aggressive statesman that has appeared in America, and Jackson, the most
                    brilliant military genius in the whole course of our history. Before the close
                    of the Revolution this adventurous race had begun to break over the passes of
                    the Alleghanies into the dark and bloody ground of Kentucky and Tennessee. Soon
                    afterward a multitude of Pennsylvanians of all stocksthe Scotch-Irish and those
                    Germans, Swiss, and Hollanders who are commonly classed together as the
                    Pennsylvania Dutch, as well as a large number of people of English descentbegan
                    to migrate down the Ohio Valley. Along with them came professional men and
                    people of more or less culture, chiefly from eastern Virginia and Maryland.
                    There came also into Indiana and Illinois, from the border States and from as
                    far south as North Carolina and Tennessee, a body of "poor
                    whites." These semi-nomadic people, descendants of the colonial
                    bond-servants, formed, in the second quarter of the nineteenth century, the
                    lowest rank of Hoosiers. But as early as 1845 there  was a considerable exodus of these to Missouri From Pike County, in that
                    State, they wended their way to California, to appear in Mr. Bret
                    Harte's stories as "Pikes." The movement of this
                    class out of Indiana went on with augmented volume in the fifties. The emigrants
                    of this period mostly sought the States lying just west of the Mississippi, and
                    the poorer sort made the trip in little one-horse wagons of the sorriest
                    description, laden mainly with white-headed children and followed by the yellow
                    curs that are the one luxury indispensable to a family of this class. To this
                    migration and to a liberal pro-people. As early as 1880, I believe, the State
                    had come to rank with some of the New England States in the matter of literacy.
                The folk-speech of the Ohio River country has many features in common with that
                    of the eastern Middle States, while it received but little from the dignified
                    eighteenth-century English of eastern Virginia. There are distinct traces of the
                    North-Irish in the idioms and in the peculiar pronunciations. One finds also
                    here and there a word from the "Pennsylvania Dutch," such as
                    "wamus" for a loose jacket, form the Geman wamms, a doublet, and "smearcase" for cottage cheese,
                    from the German
                
                
                    schmierkse. The only French word left by the old voyageurs, so far as I now remember, is "cordelle,"
                    to tow a boat by a rope carried along the shore.
                Substantially the same folk-speech exists wherever the Pennsylvania migration
                    formed the main element of the primitive settlement. I have heard the same
                    dialect in the South Carolina uplands that one gets from a Posey Country
                    Hoosier, or rather that one used to get in the old days before the vandal
                    school-master had reduced the vulgar tonque to the monotonous propriety of what
                    we call good English.
                In drawing some of the subordinate characters in this tale a little too baldly
                    from the model, I fell into an error common to inexperienced writers. It is
                    amusing to observe that these portrait characters seem the least substantial of
                    all the figures in the book. Dr. Small is a rather unrealistic villain, but I
                    knew him well and respected him in my boyish heart for a most exemplary
                    Christian of good family at the very time that, according to testimony afterward
                    given, he was diversifying his pursuits as a practising physician by leading a
                    gang of burglars. More than one person has been pointed out as the original of
                    Bud Means, and I believe there are one or two men each of whom flatters himself
                    that he posed for the figure of the first disciple of the
                
                Church of the Best Licks. Bud is made up of elements found in some of his race,
                    but not in any one man. Not dreaming that the story would reach beyond the small
                    circulation of Hearth and Home. I used the names of people in
                    Switzerland and Decatur countries, in Indiana, almost without being aware of it.
                    I have heard that a young man bearing the book had to suffer many gibes while a
                    student at an culpable indiscretion.
                "Jeems Philips," name and all, is a real person whom at the
                    time of writing this story I had not seen since I was a lad of nine and he a man
                    of nearly forty. He was a mere memory to me, and was, put into the book with
                    some slighting remarks know that he was living, and it did not seem likely that
                    the story would have vitality enough to travel all the way to Indiana. But the
                    portion referring to Phillips was transferred to the county paper circulating
                    among Jeems' neighbours. For once the good natured man was, as they say
                    in Hoosier, "mad," and he threatened to thrash the editor.
                    "Do you think he means you? "demanded the editor. "To
                    be sure he does," said the "champion speller".
                    "Can you spell?" "I can spell down any master that
                    ever  came to our district," he replied.
                    As time passed on, Phillips found himself a lion. Strangers desired an
                    introduction to him as a notability, and invited the champion to dissipate with
                    them at the soda fountain in the village drug store. It became a matter of pride
                    with him that he was the most famous speller in the world. Two years ago, while
                    visiting the town of my nativity I met upon the street the aged Jeems Phillips,
                    whom I had not seen for more than forty years. I would go far to hear him
                    "spell down" a complacent school-master once more.
                The publication of this book gave rise to an amusing revival of the
                    spelling-school as a means of public entertainment, not in rustic regions alone,
                    but in towns also. The furor extended to the great cities of New York and
                    London, and reached at last to farthest Australia, spreading to every region in
                    which English is spelled or spoken. But the effect of the chapter on the
                    spelling-school was temporary and superficial; the only organization that came
                    from the spelling-school mania, so far as I know was an association of
                    proof-readers in London to discuss mooted points. The sketch of the Church of
                    the Best Licks, however, seems to have made a deep and enduring impression upon
                    individuals and to have left some organized results. I myself endeavored  to realize it, and for five years I was the pastor
                    of a church in Brooklyn, organized on a basis almost as simple as that in the
                    Flat Creek school-house. The name I rendered into respectable English, and the
                    Church of the Best Licks became the Church of Christian Endeavor. It was highly
                    successful in doing that which a church ought to do, and its methods of work
                    have been widely copied. After my work as a minister had been definitely closed,
                    the name and the underlying thought of this church were borrowed for a young
                    people's society; and thus the little story of good endeavor in Indiana
                    seems to have left a permanent mark on the ecclesiastical organization of the
                    time.
                If any one, judging by the length of this preface, should conclude that I hold my
                    little book in undue esteem, let him know that I owe it more than one grudge. It
                    is said that Thomas Campbell, twenty years after the appearance of his
                    best-known poem, was one day introduced as "the author of 'The
                    Pleasures of Hope.'" "Confound 'The
                    Pleasures of Hope,'" he protested; "can't I
                    write anything else?" So, however much I may prefer my later work, more
                    carefully wrought in respect of thought, structure, and style, this initial
                    novel, the favorite of the larger public, has become inseparably associated with
                    my name. Often I have mentally applied Campbell's  imprecation on "The Pleasures of Hope" to this
                    story. I could not write in this vein now if I would, and twenty-one years have
                    made so many changes in me that I dare not make any but minor changes in this
                    novel. The author of" The Hoosier School-Master "is distinctly
                    not I; I am but his heir and executor; and since he is a more popular writer
                    than I, why should I meddle with his work? I have, however, ventured to make
                    some necessary revision of the diction, and have added notes, mostly with
                    reference to the dialect.
                A second grudge against this story is that somehow its readers persist in
                    believing it to be a bit of my own life. Americans are credulous believers in
                    that miracle of the imagination whom no one has ever seen in the fleshthe
                    self-made man. Some readers of "The Hoosier School-Master"
                    have settled it for a certainty that the author sprang from the rustic class he
                    has described. One lady even wrote to inquire whether my childhood were not
                    represented in Shocky, the little lad out of the poor-house. A biographical
                    sketch of me in Italian goes so far as to state that among the hard resorts by
                    which I made a living in my early life was the teaching of a Sunday-school in
                    Chicago.
                No one knows so well as I the faults of immaturity and inexperience that
                    characterize this book.  But perhaps after all the
                    public is right in so often preferring an author's first book. There is
                    what Emerson would have called a "central spontaneity" about
                    the work of a young man that may give more delight to the reader than all the
                    precision of thought and perfection of style for which we strive as life
                    advances.
                JOSHUA'S ROCK ON LAKE GEORGE, 1892
            
            
            
                PART OF THE PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION.
                I MAY as well confess, what it would be affectation to conceal, that I am more
                    than pleasured with the generous reception accorded to this story as a serial in
                    the columns of Hearth and Home. It has been in my mind since I
                    was a Hoosier boy to do something toward describing life in the back-country
                    districts of the Western States. It used to be a matter of no little jealousy
                    with us, I remember, that the manners, customs, thoughts, and fellings of New
                    England country people filled so large a place in books, while our life, not
                    less interesting, not less romantic, and certainly not less filled with humorous
                    and grotesque material, had no place in literature. It was as though we were
                    shut out of good society. And, with the single exception of Alice Gary, perhaps,
                    our Western writers did not dare speak of the West otherwise than as the unreal
                    world to which Cooper's lively imagination had given birth.
                
                I had some anxiety lest Western readers should take offence at my selecting what
                    must always seem an exceptional phase of life to those who have grown up in the
                    more refined regions of the West. But nowhere has the School-master been
                    received more kindly than in his own country and amoung his own people.
                Some of those who have spoken generous words the School master and his friends
                    have suggested that the story is an autobiography. But it is not, save in the
                    sense in which every week of atr is an autobiography: in that it is the result
                    of the experience and observation of the writer. Readers will therefore bear in
                    mind that not Ralph nor Bud nor Brother Sodom nor Dr. Small represents the
                    writer, nor do I appear, as Talleyrand said of Madame de Stael,
                    "disguised as a woman," in the person of Hannah or Mirandy.
                    Some of the incidents have been drawn from life; none of them, I believe, from
                    my own. I should like to be considered a member of the Church of the Best Licks,
                    however.
                It has been in my mind to append some remarks, philological and otherwise, upon
                    the dialect, but Professor Lowell's admirable and erudite preface to
                    the Biglow Papers must be the despair of every one who aspires to write on
                    Americanisms. To Mr. Lowell belongs the distinction of being the only  one of our most eminent authors and the only one
                    of our most eminent who has given careful attention to American dialects. But
                    while I have not ventured to discuss the provincialisms of the Indiana
                    backwoods, 1 have been careful to preserve the true usus
                    loguencfa of each locution.
                BKOOKLYN, December, 1871.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    CHAPTER I. A Private Lesson from a Bulldog 37
                        
                    CHAPTER II. A Spell Coming 52
                        
                    CHAPTER III. Mirandy, Hank, and Shocky 57
                        
                    CHAPTER IV. Spelling Down the Master 70
                        
                    CHAPTER V. The Walk Home 90
                        
                    CHAPTER VI. A Night at Pete Jones's 97
                        
                    CHAPTER VII. Ominous Remarks of Mr. Jones 105
                        
                    CHAPTER VIII. The Struggle in the Dark 109
                        
                    CHAPTER IX. Has God Forgotten Shocky? 114
                        
                    CHAPTER X. The Devil of Silence 118
                        
                    
                    CHAPTER XI. Miss Martha Hawkins 125
                        
                    CHAPTER XII. The Hardshell Preacher 133
                        
                    CHAPTER XIII. A Struggle for the Mastery 143
                        
                    CHAPTER XIV. A Crisis with Bud 150
                        
                    CHAPTER XV. The Church of the Best Licks 157
                        
                    CHAPTER XVI. The Church Militant 163
                        
                    CHAPTER XVII. A Council of War 169
                        
                    CHAPTER XVIII. Odds and Ends 175
                        
                    CHAPTER XIX. Face to Face 180
                        
                    CHAPTER XX. God Remembers Shocky 185
                        
                    CHAPTER XXI. Miss Nancy Sawyer 192
                        
                    CHAPTER XXII. Pancakes 195
                        
                    CHAPTER XXIII. A Charitable Institution 203
                        
                    
                    CHAPTER XXIV. The Good Samaritan 212
                        
                    CHAPTER XXV. Bud Wooing 215
                        
                    CHAPTER XXVI. A Letter and its Consequence 220
                        
                    CHAPTER XXVII. A Loss and Gain 224
                        
                    CHAPTER XXVIII. The Filght 228
                        
                    CHAPTER XXIX. The Trialc 234
                        
                    CHAPTER XXX. "Brother Sodom," 249
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXI. The Trial Concluded 254
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXII. After the Battle 269
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXIII. Into the Light 274
                        
                    CHAPTER XXXIV. "How it Came Out," 278
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE HOOSIER SCHOOL-MASTER
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                    A PRIVATE LESSON FROM A BULLDOG.
                    "WANT to be a school-master, do you? You? Well, what would you do in
                        Flat Crick deestrick, I'd like to know? Why, the boys have driv off
                        the last two, and licked the one afore them like blazes.
                    You might teach a summer school, when nothin' but children come. But
                        I 'low it takes a right smart man to be school-master in Flat Crick
                        in the winter. They'd pitch you out of doors, sonny, neck and
                        heels, afore Christmas."
                    The young man, who had walked ten miles to get the school in this district,
                        and who had been mentally reviewing his learning at every step he took,
                        trembling lest the committee should find that he did not know enough, was
                        not a little taken aback at this greeting from "old Jack
                        Means," who was the first trustee that he lighted on. The
                        impression made by these ominous remarks was emphasized  by the glances which he received from Jack Means's two
                        sons. The older one eyed him from the top of his brawny shoulders with that
                        amiable look which a big dog turns on a little one before shaking him. Ralph
                        Hartsook had never thought of being measured by the standard of muscle. This
                        notion of themselves dashed his ardor.
                    He had walked right to where Jack Means was at work shaving shingles in his
                        own front yard. While Mr. Means was making the speech which we have set down
                        above, and punctuating it with expectorations, a large brindle bulldog had
                        been sniffing at Ralph's heels, and a girl in anew linsey-woolsey
                        dress, standing by the door, had nearly giggled her head off at the
                        delightful prospect of seeing a new school-teacher eaten up by the ferocious
                        brute.
                    The disheartening words of the old man, the immense muscles of the yong man
                        who was to be his rebellious pupil, the jaws of the ugly bulldog, and the
                        heartless giggle of the girl, gave Ralph a delightful sense of having
                        precipitated himself into a den of wild beasts. Faint with weariness and
                        discouragement, and shivering with fear, he sat down
                    "You, Bull!" said the old man to the dog, which was showing
                        more and more a disposition to make  a meal of
                        the incipient pedagogue, "you, Bull! git aout,1 you pup!
                        "The dog walked sullenly off, but not until he had given Ralph a
                        look full of promise of what he meant to do when he got a good chance. Ralph
                        wished himself back in the village of Lewisburg, whence he had come.
                            1
                            I Aout is not the common form of out, as it is in certain rustic New
                                England regions. The vowel is here drawn in this way for imperative
                                emphasis, and it occurs as a consequence of drawling speech.
                        
                    
                    "You see," continued Mr. Means, spitting in a meditative
                        sort of a way, "you see, we a'n't none of your
                        saft sort in these diggin'. It takes a man to boss this
                        deetrick." Howsumdever, ef you think you kin trust your hide in
                        Flat Crick school-house I han't got no 'ejection. But ef
                        you git licked, don't come nous. Flat Crick don't pay no
                        'nsurance, you bet! Any other trustees? Wal, yes. But as I pay the
                        most taxes, t'others jist let me run the thing. You can begin right
                        off a Monday. They a'n't been no other applications. You
                        see, it takes grit to apply for this school. The last master had a black eye
                        for a month. But, as I wuz sayin', you can jist roll up a: id wade
                        in. I 'low you've got spunk, maybe, and that goes for a
                        heap sight more'n sinnoo with boys. Walk in, and stay over Sunday
                        withme. You'll hw' to board roun',and I uess you
                        better begin here."
                    
                    Ralph did not go in, but sat out on the wheelbarrow, watching the old man
                        shave shingles, while the boys split the blocks and chopped wood. Bull
                        smelled of the new-comer again an ugly way, and got a good kick from the
                        older son for his pains.
                    But out of one of his red eyes the dog warned the young school-master that
                            he should yet surfer for all kicks received on his
                        account.
                    "Ef Bull once takes a holt, heaven and yarth can't make him
                        let go," said the older son to "Ralph," by way of
                        comfort.
                    It was well for Ralph that he began to "board roun'
                        "by stopping at Mr. Means's. Ralph felt that Flat Creek
                        was what he needed. He had lived a bookish life; but here was his lesson in
                        the art of managing people, for he who can manage the untamed and strapping
                        youths of a winter school in Hoopole County has gone far toward learning one
                        of the hardest of lessons. And in Ralph's time, things were worse
                        than they are now. The older son of Mr. Means was called Bud Means what his
                        real name was, Ralph could not find out, for in many of these families the
                        nickname of "Bud "given to the oldest boy, and that of
                        "Sis," which is the birthright of the oldest girl,
                        completely bury the proper Christian name. Ralph saw his first strategic
                        point, which was to capture Bud Means.
                    
                    After supper, the boys began to get ready for something. Bull stuck up his
                        ears in a dignified way, and the three or four yellow curs who were
                        Bull's satellites yelped delightedly and discord antly.
                    "Bill," said Bud Means to his brother, "ax the
                        master ef he'd like to hunt coons. I'd like to take the
                        starch out uv the stuck-up feller."
                    "'Nough said,"1 was Bill's reply.
                            1
                            
                                "'Nougt said" is more
                                tan enough said for the French translator, who takes it apparently
                                for a sort of barbarous negative and renders it, "I
                                don't like to speak to him." I need hardly explain
                                to any American reader that enough said implies
                                the ending of all discussion by the acceptance of the proposition or
                                challenge.
                        
                    
                    "You durn't2 do it," said Bud.
                            2
                            
                                Durn't, daren't, dasent, dursent and
                                    don't dast are forms of this variable negative
                                heard in the folk-speech of variousof the country. The tenses of
                                this verb seem to have got hopelessly mixed long ago, even in
                                literary use, and the speech of the people reflects the historic
                                confusion.
                        
                    
                    I don't take no sech a dare,"3 returned Bill, and walked down
                        to the gate, by which Ralph stood watching the stars come out, and half
                        wishing he had never seen Flat Creek.
                            4
                            To take a dare is an expression used in senses diametrically opposed.
                                Its common sense os that of the text. The man who refuses to accept
                                a challenge is said to take a dare, and there is some implication of
                                cowardice in the imputation. On the other hand, one who accepts a
                                challenge is said also to take the dare.
                        
                    
                    "I say, mister," began Bill, "mister,
                        they's a coon what's been a eatin' our chickens
                        lately, and we're  goin' to
                        try to ketch1 the varmint. You wouldn't like to take a coon hunt nor
                        nothin', would you?"
                            1
                            Moss bad English was once good English. Ketch was
                                used by writers of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries for catch. A New Hampshire magistrate in the
                                seventeenth century spells it caitch, and probably
                                pronounced it in that way. Ketch, a bost was
                                sometimes spelled catch by the first American
                                colonists, and the far-fetched derivation of the word from the
                                Turkish may be one of the fancies of etymologists
                        
                    
                    "Why, yes,' said Ralph, "there's nothing
                        I should like better, if I could only be sure Bull wouldn't mistake
                        me for the coon."
                    And so, as a matter of policy, Ralph dragged his tired legs eight or ten
                        miles, on hill and in hollow, liter Bud, and Bill, and Bull, and the coon.
                        But the raccoon2 climbed a tree. The boys got into a quarrel about
                        whose business it was to have brought the axe, and who was to blame that the
                        tree could not be felled. Now, if there was anything Ralph's
                        muscles were good for, it was climbing. So, asking Bud to give him a start,
                        he soon reached the limb above know how uglya customer a raccoon can 
                        
                            OLD JACK MEANS
                        
                         be, and so got credit for more courage than he
                        had. With much peril to his legs from the raccoon's teeth, he
                        succeeded in shaking the poor creature off among the yelping brutes and
                        yelling boys. Ralph could not help sympathizing with the haunted animal,
                        which sold its life as dearly as possible, giving the dogs many a scratch
                        and bite. It seemed to him that he was like the raccoon, precipitated into
                        the midst of a party of dogs who would rejoice in worrying his life out, as
                        Bull and his crowd were destroying the poor raccoon. When Bull at last
                        seized the raccoon and put an end to it, Ralph could not but admire the
                        decided way in which he did it, calling to mind Bud's
                        comment," Ef Bull once takes a bolt, heaven and yarth1
                        can't make him let go."
                            2
                            The derivation of raccoon from the French raton, to which Mr. Skeat gives currency, still
                                holds its place in some of our standard dictionaries. If American
                                lexicographers would only read the literature of American settlement
                                they would know that Mr. Skeat's citation of a transtation
                                of Buffon is nearly two late. As early as 1612 Captain John Smith
                                gives aroughcune as the aboriginal Virginia word, and more than one
                                New England writer used rackoon a few years later.
                        
                        
                            1
                            This prefixed y is a mark of a very illiterate or
                                antique form of the dialect. I have known piece
                                yarthan used for" a piece of earthen."
                                [ware], the preposition getting lost in the sound of the y. I leave it to etymologists to determine its
                                relation to that ancient prefix that differentiates earn in one sense from yearn. But the
                                article before a vowel may accout for it if we consider it a
                                corruption. "The earth" pronounced in a drawling
                                way will produce the yearth. In the New York
                                Documents is a letter from o Barnard Hodges, a settler in Delaware
                                in the days of Governor Andros, whose spelling indicates a free use
                                of the parasitic y. He writes
                                "yunless," "yeunder" (under),
                                yunderstanding," "yeundertake," and
                                "yeouffeis" (office).
                        
                    
                    But as they walked home, Bud carrying the raccoon by the tail, Ralph felt
                        that his hunt had not been in vain. Ile. fancied that even red-eyed Bull,
                             walking uncomfortably close to his heels,
                        respected him more since he had climbed that tree.
                    "Purty peart kind of a master," remarked the old man to
                        Bud, after Ralph had gone to bed. "Guess you better be a little
                        easy on him. Hey?"
                    But Bud deigned no reply. Perhaps because he knew that Ralph heard the
                        conversation through the thin partition.
                    Ralph woke delighted to find it raining. He did not want to hunt or fish on
                        Sunday, and this steady rain would enable him to make friends with Bud. I do
                        not know how he got started, but after breakfast he began to tell stories.
                        Out of all the books he had ever read he told story after story. And
                        "old man Means," and "old Miss
                        Means," and Bud Means, and Bill Means, and Sis Means listened with
                        great eyes while he told of Sinbad's adventures, of the Old Man of
                        the Sea, of Robinson Crusoe, of Captain Gulliver's. experiences in
                        Liliput, and of Baron Munehausen's exploits.
                    Ralph had caught his fish. The hungry minds of these backwoods people were
                        refreshed with the new life that came to their imaginations in these
                        stories. For there was but one book in the Means library, and that, a
                        well-thumbed copy of "Captain Riley's Narrative,"
                        had long since lost all freshness.
                    
                    I'll be dog-on'd,"1 said Bill, emphatically,
                        "ef I hadn't 'ruther hear the master tell them
                        Whoppin' yarns than to go to a circus the best day I ever
                        seed!" Bill could pay no higher compliment.
                            1
                            Like many of the ear-marks of this dialect, the verb "dog-on
                                came from, Scotland, presumably by the way of the north of Ireland.
                                A correspondent of The Nation calls attention to
                                the use of "dagon" as Scotch dialect in
                                Barrier's "Little minister," a recent
                                book. On examining that story, I find that the word has precisely
                                the sense of our Hoosier "dog-on," which is to be
                                pronounced broadly as a Hoosier pronounces dog"
                                daug-on." If Mr. Barrie gives his a the
                                broad sound, his dagon" is nearly identical with
                                "dog-on." Here are some detached sentences from
                                "The Little Minister:"
                            "Beattie" spoke for more than himself when he said:
                                ' Dagon that Manse! I never gie swear but there it is
                                glowering at me.'"
                            "'Dagon religion,' Rob retorted fiercely
                                "t spoils a' thing.'"
                            "There was some angry muttering from the crowd, and young
                                Charles Vuill exclaimed, ' Dagon you, would you lord it
                                over us on week-days as well as on Sabbaths
                            "'Have you on your Sabbath shoon or have you no on
                                your Sab-bath shoon?" Guid care you took I should
                                ha'e the dagont things on retorted the farmer."
                            It will be seen that "dagont," as used above, is
                                the Scotch form of dog-oned." But Mr. Barrie uses the same
                                form apparently for "dog-on it" in the following
                                passage:
                            "Ay, there was Ruth when she was na wanted, bat Ezra,
                                dagont, it looked as if Ezra had jumped clean out o' the
                                Bible"
                            Strangely enough, this word as a verb is not to be found in
                                Jamieson's dictionary of the Scottish dialect, but Jamieson
                                gives "dugon" as a noun. It is given in the
                                supplement to Jamieson, however, as dagon" but still as a
                                noun, with an ancient plural dogonis. It is
                                explained as a term of contempt." The example cited by
                                Jaimieson Hogg's "Winter Tales," I. 292,
                                and is as follows:
                            "What wad my father say if I were to marry a man that loot
                                himsel' be thrashed by Tommy Potts, a great supple
                                wi'a back nae stiffer than a will, brand? . . . When one
                                comes to close quarters wi' him he's but a
                                dug."
                            Halliwell and W'right give dogon as a noun
                                and mark it Anglo-Norman, but they apparently know it only from
                                Jamieson and the supplement to Jamieson, where dogguin is cited from
                                Cotgrave as meaning "filthie old curve," and
                                dogguin from Roquefort, defined by "brutal, currish
                                " [hargneux]. A word with the same orthography, doguin is still used in French for puppy. It is of
                                course a question whether the noun dogon and its
                                French antecedents are connected with the American verb dog-on. It is easy to conceive that such an epithet as dogon might get itself mixed up with the word dog,
                                and so become an imprecation. For instance, a servant in the family
                                of a friend of mine in Indiana, wishing to resign her place before
                                the return of some daughters of the house whom she had never seen,
                                announced that she was going to leave "before them dog-on girls got home." I tore the word
                                might have been the old epithet, or an abbreviated participle. Dogged is apparently a corruption of dog-on in the phrase "I'll be
                                dogged-" I prefer dog-on to dogone, because in the dialect the sense of setting a dog
                                on is frequently present to the speaker, though far enough away from
                                the primitive sense of the word, perhaps.
                        
                    
                    What Ralph wanted was to make a friend of Bud.
                    
                    It's a nice thing to have the seventy-four-gun ship on your own
                        side, and the more Hartsook admired the knotted muscles of Bud Means the
                        more he desired to attach him to himself. So, whenever he struck out a
                        peculiarly brilliant passage, he anxiously watched Bud's eye. But
                        the young Philistine kept his own counsel. He listened, but said nothing,
                        and the eyes under his shaggy brows gave no sign. Ralph could not tell
                        whether those eyes were deep and inscrutable or only stolid. Perhaps a
                        little of both. When Monday morning carne, Ralph was nervous. He walked to
                        school with Bud.
                    
                    "I guess you're a little sheered by what the old man said,
                        a'n't you?"
                    Ralph was about to deny it, but on reflection concluded that it was best to
                        speak the truth. He said that Mr. Means's description of the school
                        had made him feel a little down-hearted.
                    "What will you do with the tough boys? You a'n't
                        no match for 'em." And Ralph felt Bud's eyes not
                        only measuring his muscles, but scrutinizing his countenance. He only
                        answered:
                    "I don't know."
                    "What would you do with me, for instance?" and Bud
                        stretched himself up as if to shake out the reserve power coiled up in his
                        great muscles.
                    "I sha'n't have any trouble with you."
                    "Why, I'm the wust chap of all. I thrashed the last master,
                        myself."
                    And again the eyes of Bud Means looked out sharply from his shadowing brows
                        to see the effect of this speech on the slender young man.
                    "You won't thrash me, though," said
                        "Ralph."
                    "Pshnw! I 'low I could whip you in an inch of your life
                        with my left hand, and never half try," said young Means, with a
                        threatening sneer.
                    "I know that as well as you do."
                    "Well, a'n't you afraid of me, then?" and
                        again he looked sidewise at Ralph.
                    
                    "Not a bit," said "Ralph," wondering at
                        his own courage.
                    They walked on in silence a minute. Bud was turning the matter over.
                    "Why ain't you afraid of me? "he said presently.
                        "Because you and I are going to be friends." "And
                        what about t'ethers?"
                    "I am not afraid of all the other boys put to gether."
                    "You a'n't! The mischief! How's
                        that?"
                    "Well, I'm not afraid of them because you and I are going
                        to be friends, and you can whip all of them together. You'll do the
                        fighting and I'll rho the teaching."
                    The diplomatic Bud only chuckled a little at this whether he assented to the
                        alliance or not Ralph could not tell.
                    When Ralph looked round on the faces of the scholarsthe little faces full of
                        mischief and curiosity, the big faces full of an expression which was not
                        further removed than second-cousin from contempt when young Hartsook looked
                        into these faces, his heart palpitated with stage-fright. There is no
                        audience so hard to face as one of school-children, as many a man has found
                        to his cost. Perhaps it is that no conventional restraint can keep down
                        their laughter when you do or say anything ridiculous.
                    
                    Hartsook's first day was hurried and unsatisfactory. He war; not
                        master of himself, and consequently not master of anybody else. When evening
                        carne, there were symptoms of insubordination through the whole school. Poor
                        Ralph was sick at heart. He felt that if there had ever been the shadow of
                        an alliance between himself and Bud, it was all "off" now.
                        It seemed to Hartsoole that even Bull had lost his respect for the teacher.
                        Half that night the young man lay awake. At last comfort carte to him. A
                        reminiscence of the death of the raccoon flashed on him like a vision. He
                        remembered that quiet and annihilating bite which Bull gave. He remembered
                        Bud's certificate, that "Ef Bull once takes a bolt, heaven
                        and yarth can't make him let go." He thought that what
                        Flat, Creek needed was a bulldog. He would be a bulldog, quiet, but
                        invincible. He would take hold in such a way that nothing should make him
                        let go. And then he went to sleep.
                    In the morning Ralph got out of bed slowly. He put his clothes on slowly. He
                        pulled on his boots in a bulldog mood. He tried to move as he thought Bull
                        would move if he were a man. He ate with deliberation, and looked everybody
                        in the eyes with a manner that made Bud watch him curiously. He found
                        himself continually comparing himself wuth
                    
                    Bull. He found Bull possessing a strange fascination for him. He walked to
                        school alone, the rest haven gone on before. He entered the schoolroom
                        preserving a cool and clogged manner. He saw in the eyes of the boys that
                        there was mischief brewing. He did not dare sit down in his chair for fear
                        of a pin. Everybody looked solemn. Ralph lifted the lid of his desk.
                        "Bow-wow! wow-wow!" It was the voice of an imprisoned
                        puppy, and the school giggled and then roared. Then everything was quiet.
                    The scholars expected an outburst of wrath from the teacher. For they had
                        come to regard the whole world as divided into two classes, the teacher on
                        the one side representing lawful authority, and the pupils on the other in a
                        state of chronic rebellion. To play a trick on the master was an evidence of
                        spirit; to "lick" the master was to be the crowned hero of
                        flat Creek district. Such a hero was Bud Means; and Bill, who had less
                        muscle, saw a chance to distinguish himself on a teacher of slender frame.
                        Hence the puppy in the desk.
                    Ralph Hartsook grew red in the face when he saw the puppy. But the cool,
                        repressed, bulldog mood in which he had kept himself saved him. He lifted
                        the dog into his arms and stroked him until 
                        the laughter subsided. Then, in a solemn and set way, he began:
                    "I am sorry," and he looked round the room with a steady,
                        hard eyeeverybody felt that there was a conflict coming" I am sorry
                        that any scholar in this school could be so mean "the word was
                        uttered with a sharp emphasis, and all the big boys It sure that there would
                        be a fight with Bill Means, and perhaps with Bad " "could
                        be so meanas to shut up his brother in
                        such a place as that!"
                    There was a long, derisive laugh. The wit was indifferent, but by one stroke
                        Ralph had carried the whole school to his side. By the significant glances
                        of the boys, Hartsook detected the perpetrator of the joke, and with the
                        hard and dogged look in his eyes, with just such a look as Bull would give a
                        puppy, but with the utmost suavity in his voice, he said:
                    "William Means, will you be so good as to put this dog out of doors
                        t"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER: II
                    A SPELL COMING.
                    THERE was a moment of utter stillness; but the magnetism
                        of Ralph's eye was too much for Bill Means. The request was no
                        polite, the master's look was so innocent and yet so determined.
                        Bill often wondered afterward that he had not "fit" rather
                        than obeyed the request. But somehow he put the clog out. He was partly
                        surprised, partly inveigled, partly awed into doing just what he had not
                        intended to do. In the week that followed, Bill bad to fight half a dozen
                        boys for calling him "Puppy Means."
                        "Bill" said he wished he'd ticked the master on
                        the spot. 'Twould 'a' saved five fights out of
                        the six.
                    And all that clay and the next, the bulldog in the master's eye was
                        a terror to evil-doers. At the close of school on the second day Bud was
                        heard to give it as his opinion that "the master wouldn't
                        be much in a tussle, but he had a heap of thunder and lightning in
                        him."
                    Did he inflict corporal punishment? inquires 
                        some philanthropic friend. Would you inflict corporal punishment if you were
                        tiger-trainer in Van Amburgh's happy family? But poor Ralph could
                        never satisfy his constituency in this regard.
                    "Don't believe he'll do," was
                        "Mr. Pete Jones's" comment to Mr. Means.
                        "Don't thrash enough. Boys won't l'arn
                        'less you thrash 'em, says I. Leastways, mine
                        won't. Lay it on good is what I says to a master. Lay it on good.
                        Don't do no harm. Lickin' and l'arnin'
                        goes together. No lickin', no l'arnin', says I.
                        Lickin' and l'arnin,' lickin' and
                        larnin', is the good ole way."
                    And Mr. Jones, like some wiser people, was the more pleased with his formula
                        that it had an alliterative sound. Nevertheless, Ralph was master from this
                        time until the spelling-school came. If only it had not been for that
                        spelling-school! Many and many a time after the night of the fatal
                        spelling-school Ralph used to say, "If only it had not been for
                        that spelling-school!"
                    There had to be a spelling-school. Not only for the sake of my story, which
                        would not have been worth the telling if the spelling-school had not taken
                        place, but because Flat Creek district had to have a spelling-school. It is
                        the only public literary exercise known in Hoopole County. It takes the
                        place of lyceum lecture and debating club. Sis
                    
                    Means, or, as she wished now to be called, Mirandy Means, expressed herself
                        most positively in favor of it. She said that she 'lowed the folks
                        in that district couldn't in no wise do without it. But it was
                        rather to its social than to its intellectual benefits that she referred.
                        For all the spelling-schools ever seen could not enable her to stand
                        anywhere but at the foot of the class. There is one branch diligently taught
                        in a backwoods school. The public mind seems impressed with the difficulties
                        of English orthography, and there is a solemn conviction that the chief end
                        of man is to learn to spell.
                    "'know Webstart's Elementry' came down
                        from Heaven," would be the backwoods version of the Greek saying
                        but that, unfortunately for the Greeks, their fame has not reached so far.
                        It often happens that the pupil does not know the meaning of a quence. What
                        do you want to know the meaning of a word for? Words were made to be
                        spelled, and men were probably created that they might spell them. Hence the
                        necessity for sending a pupil through the spelling-book five times before
                        anything else. Hence the necessity for those long afternoon session of the
                        school, to stand at the  head of which is the
                        cherished ambition of every scholar. Hence, too, the necessity for devoting
                        the "spelling-match."In fact, spelling is the
                        "national game" in Hoopole County. Baseball and croquet
                        matches are as unknown as Olympian chariot-races. Spelling and shucking1 are
                        the only public competitions.
                            1
                            In naming the several parts of the Indian cron and the dishes made
                                from it, the English language was put to many shifts. Such words as
                                tassel and silk were poetically applied to the blossome; stalk.
                                blade, and, war were borrowed from other sorts of corn, and the
                                Indian tongues were forced to pay tribute to name the dishes borowed
                                from the savages. From them we have heminty, pone, supawn, and
                                succotash. For other nons words were borrowed from English
                                provincial dialects. shuck is one of these. On the northern belt,
                                shucks are the outer covering of nuts; in the middle and southern
                                regions the word is applied to what in New England is called the
                                husk in colloquial speechthe farmers in more than half of the
                                notably in Davy Crockett's verse:
                            
                                "She sifted the meal, she gimme the hus'
                                She baked the bread, she gimme the crus'
                                She b'iled the meat, she gimme the bone;
                                She gimme a kick and sent me home."
                            
                            In parts of Virginia, before the war, the word husk or fins'
                                meant the cob or spike of the corn. "I smack you over wid a
                                cawn-hus'" is a threat I have often heard one
                                negro boy make to another cob is provincial English for ear, and I
                                have known "a cob of corn" used in Canada for an
                                ear of Indian core. While writing this note "a cob of
                                Indian core "meaning an ear appears in the report of an
                                adderss by a distinguished man at a recent meeting of the Royal
                                Geographicl Society. Alady tells me that she met in the book of an
                                English traveller, the remarkable statement that "the
                                Americans are very fond of the young gain called cob."
                                These Indian-core words have reached an accepted meaning after a
                                competion. TO shell core, among the earlist sttlers of Virginia,
                                meant to take it out of the envelope, which was presumably railed
                                the shell. The aaalogy is with the shelling of pulse.
                        
                    
                    
                    So the fatal spelling-school had to be appointed for the Wednesday of the
                        second week of the session, just when Ralph felt himself master of the
                        situation. Not that he was without his annoyances. One of Ralph's
                        troubles in the week before the spelling-school was that he was loved. The
                        other that he was hated. And while the time between the appointing of the
                        spelling tournament and the actual occurrence of that remarkable event that
                        made it for Ralph a trying time.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                    MIRANDY, HANK, AND SHOCKY.
                    MLRANDY had nothing but contempt for the new master until
                        he developed the bulldog in his char-acter. Mirandy fell in love with the
                        bulldog. Like to be her master. Much has been said of the strong-rrindcd
                        woman. I offer this psychological remark as a contribution to the natural
                        history of the weak-mainded woman.
                    It was at the close of that very second day on which Ralph had achieved his
                        first victory over the school, and in which Mirandy had been seized with her
                        desperate passion for him, that she told him about it. Not in words. We do
                        not allow that in the most civilized countries, and still less would it be
                        tolerated in Hoopole County. But Mirandy told the master the fact that she
                        was in love with him, though no word passed her lips. She walked by him from
                        school. She cast at him what are commonly called sheep's-eycs.
                        Ralph thought them  more like calf's
                        eyes. She changed the whole tone of her voice. She whined ordinarily. Now
                        she whimpered. And so by ogling him, by blushing at him, by tittering at
                        him, by giggling at him, by snickering at him, by simpering at him, by
                        making herself tenfold more a fool even than nature had made her, she
                        managed to convey to the dismayed soul of the young teacher the frightful
                        intelligence that he was loved by the richest, the ugliest, the silliest,
                        the coarsest, and the most entirely contemptible girl in Flat Creek
                        district.
                    Ralph sat by the fire the next morning trying to read a few minutes before
                        school-time, while the boys were doing the chores and the bound girl was
                        milking the cows, with no one in the room but the old woman. She was
                        generally as silent as Bud, disposed to talk. . . . She had sat down on the
                        broad to have her usual morning somke; the poplar table, adorned by no
                        cloth, stood in the middle of the floor; the unwashed blue teacups sat in
                        the unwashed blue saucers; the unwashed blue plates kept company with the
                        begrimed blue pitcher. The dirty skillets by the fire were kept in
                        countenance by the dirtier pots, and the ashes were drifted and strewn over
                        the hearth-stones in a most picturesque way.
                    "You see," "said the old woman," knocking
                        the  residuum from her cob pipe, and chafing
                        some dry leaf between her withered hands preparatory to filling it again,
                        "you see, Mr. Hartsook, my ole right smart lot of this
                        world's plunder,1 one way '' and
                        another." And while she stuffed the tobacco into her pipe Ralph
                        wondered why she should men-upon twenty-five years ago. 'Twas when
                        my Jack, him as died afore Bud was born, was a baby. Bud'll be
                        twenty-one the fif of next June."
                            1
                            This word plunder is probably from Pennsylvania, as
                                it is exactly effects, the original meaning of the word in German.
                                Any kind of baggage may be called plunder, but the
                                most accepted sense is house hold goods. It is quite seriously used.
                                I have seen bills of lading on the Western waters certifying that A.
                                B. had shipped "I lot of plunder;" that is,
                                household goods. It is here used figuratively for goods in
                            general.
                        
                    
                    Here Mrs. Means stopped to rake a live coal out of the fire with her skinny
                        finger, and then to carry it in her skinny palm to the bowlor to the hole of
                        her cob pipe. When she got the smoke a-going, she proceeded:
                    "You see, this yere bottom land was all Congress land 2 in
                        them there days, and it sold for a dollar  and
                        a quarter, and I says to my ole man, 'Jack,' says I,
                        ' Jack, do you git a plenty while you're
                        a-gittin'. Git a plenty while you're
                        a-gittin',' says I, ha'n't been; I
                        knowcd 'twouldn't, "and Mrs. Means took the pipe
                        from her mouth to indulge in a good chuckle at the thought of her financial
                        shrewdness."' Git a plenty while you're
                        a-gittin',' says I. I could see, you know, they was a
                        powerful sight of money in Congress land. That's what made me say,
                        'Git a plenty while you're a-gittin'.'
                        And Jack, he's wuth lots and gobs of money, all made out of
                        Congress land. Jack didn't git rich by hard work. Bless you, no!
                        Not him. That a'n't his way. Hard work
                        a'n't, you know. 'Twas that air six hundred
                        dollars he got along of me, all salted down into Flat Crick bottoms at a
                        dollar and a quarter a' acre, and 'twas my sayin'
                        ' Git a plenty while you're agittin" as done
                        it." And here the old ogre laughed, or grinned horribly, at Ralph,
                        showing her few straggling, discolored teeth.
                            2
                            
                                Congress land was the old designation for land
                                owned by the goverment, and the forms of speech seem to have long
                                retained the notioa that what belonged to the United States was the
                                property of Congress.
                        
                    
                    Then she got up and knocked the ashes out of her pipe, and laid the pipe away
                        and walked round in front of Ralph. After adjusting the chunks1 so  that the fire would burn, she turned her
                        yellow face toward Ralph, and scanning him closely came out with the climax
                        of her speech in the remark: "You see as how, Mr. Hartsook, the man
                        what gits my Mirandy'll do well. Flat Crick land's wuth
                        nigh upon a hundred a' acre."
                            1
                            The commonest use the word chunk in the old days was for the ends of
                                the sticks of cord-wood burned in the great fireplaces. As the
                                sticks burned in two, the chunks fell down or rolled back on the
                                wall side of the andirons. By putting the chunks together, a nwe
                                fire was set a-going without fresh wood. This use of the word is
                                illustrated in a folk-rhyme or nursery jingle of the country which
                                has neither senes nor elegance to recommend it:
                            
                                "Old Mother Hunk
                                She got drunk
                                And fell in the fire
                                And kicked up a chunk,"
                            
                        
                    
                    This gentle hint came near knocking Ralph down. Had Flat Creek land been
                        worth a hundred times a hundred dollars an acre, and had he owned five
                        hundred times Means's five hundred acres, he would have given it
                        all just at that moment to have annihilated the whole tribe of Meanses.
                        Except Bud. Bud was a giant, but a good-natured one. He thought he would
                        except Bud from the general destruction. As for the rest, he mentally
                        pictured to himself the pleasure of attending their funerals. There was one
                        thought, however, between him and despair. He felt confident that the
                        cordiality, the intensity, and the persistency of his dislike of Sis Means
                        were such that he should never inherit a foot of the Flat Creek bottoms.
                    
                    But what about Bud? What if he joined the conspiracy to marry him to this
                        weak-eyed, weakheaded wood-nymph, or backwoods nymph?
                    If Ralph felt it a misfortune to be loved by Mirandy Means, he found himself
                        almost equally unfortunate in having incurred the hatred of the meanest boy
                        in school. "Hank" Banta, low-browed, smirky, and crafty,
                        was the first sufferer by Ralph's determination to use corporal
                        punilshment, and so Henry Banta, who was a compound of deceit and resntment
                        never lost an opportunity to annoy the young school-master who was obliged
                        to live per petually on his guard aginst his tricks.
                    One morning, as Ralph_walked toward the schoolhouse, he met little shocky.
                        What the boy's first name or last name was the teacher did not
                        know. He had given his narrie as Shocky, and all the teacher knew was that
                        he was commonly called Shocky, that he was an orphan, that he lived with a
                        family named Pearson over in Rocky Hollow, and that he was the most faithful
                        and affectionate child in the school. On this morning that I speak of, Ralph
                        had walked toward the school early to avoid the company of Mirandy. But not
                        caring to sustain his dignity longer than was necessary, he loitered along
                        the road, admiring the trunks of the maples, and picking up a Deecn-nut now
                        and then. Just a  he was about to go on toward
                        the school, he caught sight of little Shocky running swiftly toward him, but
                        looking from side to side, as if afraid of being seen.
                    "Well, Shocky, what is it?" and Ralph put his hand kindly
                        on the great bushy head of white hair from which came Shocky's
                        nickname. Shocky had to pant a minute.
                    "Why, Mr. Hartsook," he gasped, scratching his head,
                        "they's a pond down under the school-house,"and
                        here Shocky's breath gave out entirely for a minute.
                    "Yes, Shocky, I know that. What about it? The trustees
                        haven't come to fill it up, have they?"
                    "Oh! no, sir; but Hank Banta, you know" and
                        "Shocky" took another breathing spell, standing as close
                        to Ralph as he could, for poor Shocky got all his sunshine from the
                        master's presence.
                    "Has Henry fallen in and got a ducking, Shocky?"
                    "Oh! no, sir; he wants to git you in, you see."
                    "Well, I won't go in, though, Shocky."
                    "But, you see, he's been and gone and pulled back the board
                        that you have to step on to git ahind your desk; he's been and gone
                        and pulled back the board so as you can't help a-tippin'
                        it up, and a-sowsin' right in ef you step there."
                    "And so you came to tell me." There was a hus  kiness in Ralph s voice. He had, then, one
                        friend in Flat Creek to come back to the school-house in a direction at
                        right angles to the master's approach. But the caution was not
                        needed. Shocky had taken care to leave in that way, and was altogether too
                        cunning to be seen coming down the road with Mr. Hartsook. But after he got
                        over the fence to go through the "sugar camp"(or sugar orchard, as they say at the East), he stopped and turned
                        back once or twice just to catch one more smile from Ralph. And then he hied
                        away through the tall trees, a very happy boy, kicking and ploughing the
                        brown leaves before him in his perfect delight, saying over and over again:
                        "How he looked at me! how he did look!"And when Ralph came
                        up to the school-house door, there was Shocky sauntering along from the
                        other direction, throwing bits of limestone at fence rails, and smiling
                        still clear down to his shoes at thought of the master's kind
                        words.
                    "What a quare boy Shocky is!" remarked
                        "Betsey" Short, with a giggle. "He just likes to
                        wander round alone. I see him a-comon' out of the sugar camp just
                        now. He's been in there half an hour." And
                        "Betsey" giggled again; for Betsey Short could  giggle on slighter provocation than any other
                        girl on Flat Creek.
                    When Ralph Hartsook, with the quiet, dogged tread that he was cultivating,
                        walked into the school-room, he took great care not to seem to see the trap
                        set for him; but he carelessly stepped over the board that had been so
                        nicely adjusted. The boys who were Hank's confidants in the plot
                        were very busy over their slates, and took pains not to show their
                        disappointment.
                    The morning session wore on without incident. Ralph several times caught two
                        people looking at him. One was Mirandy. Her weak and watery eyes stole
                        loving glances over the top of her spelling-book, which she would not study.
                        Her looks made Ralph's spirits sink to forty below zero, and
                        congeal.
                    But on one of the backless little benches that sat in the middle of the
                        school-room was little Shocky, who also cast money love glances at the young
                        maser; glances as grateful to his heart as Mirandy's oglinghe was
                        tempted to call it ogringwas hateful.
                    "Look at Shocky," giggled Betsey Short, behind her slate.
                        "He looks as if he was a-goin' to eat the master up, body
                        and soul."
                    And so the forenoon wore on as usual, and those who laid the trap had
                        forgotten it, themselves. The  morning session
                        was drawing to a close. The fire in the great old fire-place had burnt low.
                        The flames, which seemed to Shocky to be angels, had disappeared, and now
                        the bright coals, which had played the part of men and women and houses in
                        Shocky's fancy, had taken on a white and downy covering of ashes,
                        and the great half-burnt back-log lay there smouldering like a giant asleep
                        in a snowdrift. Shocky longed to wake him up.
                    As for Henry Banta, he was too much bothered to get the answer to a
                        "sum" he was doing, to remember anything about his trap.
                        In fact, he had quite forgotten that half an hour ago in the all-absorbing
                        employment of drawing ugly pictures on his slate and coaxing Betsey Short to
                        giggle by shoeing them slyly across the school-room. Once or twice Ralph had
                        been attracted to Betsey's extraordinary fits of giggling, and had
                        come so near to catching Hank that the boy thought it best not to run any
                        further risk of the beech switches, four or five feet long, laid up behind
                        the master in sight of the school as a prophylactic. Hence his application
                        his puzzled look, for, idler that he was, his "sums" did
                        not solve themselves easily. As usual in such cases, he came up in front of
                        the master's desk to have the difficulty explained. He had to  wait a minute until Ralph got through with
                        showing Betsey Short, who had been seized with a studying fit, and who could
                        hardly give any attention to the teacher's explanations, she did
                        want to giggle so much! Not at anything in particular, but just at things in
                        general.
                    While Ralph was "doing" Betsey's
                        "sum"for her, he was solving a much more difficult
                        question. A plan had flashed upon him, but the punishment seemed a severe
                        one. He gave it up once or twice but he remembered how turbulent the Flat
                        Creek elements were; and had he not inly resolved to be as unrelenting as a
                        bulldog? He fortified himself by recalling again the oft-remembered remark
                        of Bud," Ef Bull wunst takes a holt, heaven and yarth
                        can't make him let go." And so he resolved to give Hank
                        and the whole school one good lesson.
                    "Just step round behind me, Henry, and you can see how I do
                        this," said "Ralph."
                    Hank was entirely off his guard, and, with his eyes fixed upon the slate on
                        the teacher's desk, he sidled round upon the board misplaced his
                        own hand, and in instant the other end of the board rose up in the middle of
                        the school-room, almost striking Shocky in the face, while Henry Banta went
                        down into the ice-cold water beneath the school-house.
                    
                    "Why. Henry!" cried "Ralph", jumping to
                        his feet with well-feigned surprise. "How did
                        this happen?" and he helped the dripping fellow out and seated him
                        by the fire.
                    Betsey Short giggled.
                    Shocky was so tickled that he could hardly keep his seat.
                    The boys who were in the plot looked very serious indeed.
                    Ralph made some remarks by way of improving the occasion. He spoke strongly
                        of the utter meanness of the one who could play so heartless a trick on a
                        schoolmate. He said that it was as much thieving to get your fun at the
                        expense of another as to steal his money. And while he talked, all eyes were
                        turned on Hankall except the eyes of Mi-randy Means. They looked simperingly
                        at Ralph. All the rest looked at Hank. The fire had made his face very red.
                        Shocky noticed that. Betsey Short noticed it, and giggled. The master wound
                        up with an-appropriate quotation from Scripture. He said that the person who
                        displaced that board had better not be encouraged by the successhe said successwith a curious emphasisof the present experiment to
                        attempt another trick of the kind. For it was set down in the Bible that if
                        a man dug a pit for the feet of another he would be very likely 
                        
                            HANK BANTA'S IMPROVED PLUNGE BATH
                        
                         to fall in it himself. Which made all the
                        pupils look solemn, except Betsey Short, who giggled. And Shocky wanted to.
                        And Mirandy cast an expiring look at Ralph. And if the teacher was not
                        love-sick, he certainly was sick of Mirandy's love.
                    When school was "let out," Ralph gave Hank every caution
                        that he could about taking cold, and even lent him his overcoat, very much
                        against Hank's will. For Hank had obstinately refused to go home
                        before the" school was dismissed.
                    Then the master walked out in a quiet and subdued way to spend the noon
                        recess in the woods, while Shocky watched his retreating footsteps with
                        loving admiration. And the pupils not in the secret canvassed the question
                        of who moved the board. Bill Means said he'd bet Hank did it, which
                        set Betsey Short off in an uncontrollable giggle. And Shocky listened
                        innocently.
                    But that night "Bud" said slyly: "Thunder and
                        lightning! what a manager you air, Mr. Hartsook!"
                        To which Ralph returned no reply except a friendly smile. Muscle paid
                        tribute to brains that time.
                    But Ralph had no time for exultation; for just here came the
                    spelling-school.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                    SPELLING DOWN THE MASTER.
                    "I 'LOW," said "Mrs. Means", as
                        she stuffed the tobacco into her cob pipe after supper on that eventful
                        Wednesday evening: "I low they'll app'int the
                        Squire to gin out the words to-night. They mos' always do, you see,
                        kase he's the peartest1
                        ole man in this decstrick; and I 'low some of the
                        young fellers would have to git up and dust ef they would keep up to him.
                        And he uses sech remarkable smart words. He speaks so polite, too. But laws!
                        don't I remember when he was poarer nor Job's turkey?
                        Twenty year ago, when he come to these 'ere diggin's, that
                        air Squire Hawkins was a poar Yankee school-master, that said
                        'pail' instid of bucket, and that called a cow a
                        ' caow,' and that 
                        couldn't tell to save his gizzard what we meant by 'low
                        1 and
                        by right smart.2 But he's larnt our ways
                             now, an' he's jest as
                        civilized as the rest of us. You would-n know he'd ever been a
                        Yankee. He did't stay poar long. Not he. He jest married a right
                        rich girl! He! he!" And the old woman grinned at Ralph, and then at
                        Mirandy, and then at the rest, until Ralph shuddered. Nothing was so
                        frightful to him as to be fawned on by this grinning ogre, whose few
                        lonesome, blackish teeth seemed ready to devour him. "He
                        didn't stay poar, you bet a hoss!" and with this the coal
                        was deposited on the pipe, and the lips began to crack like parchment as
                        each puff of smoke escaped. "He married rich, you see,"
                        and here another significant look at the young master, and another fond look
                        at Mirandy, as she puffed away reflectively. "His wife
                        hadn't no book-larnin'. She'd been through the
                        spcllin'-book wunst, and had got as fur as'
                        asperity' on it a second time. But she couldn't read a
                        word when she was married, and never could. She warn't overly
                        smart. She hadn't hardly got the sense the law allows. But schools
                        was Skase in them air days, and, besides, book-larnin'
                        don't do no good to a woman. Makes her stuck up. I never knowed but
                        one gal in my life as had ciphered into fractions, and she was so dog-on
                        stuck up that she turned up her nose one night at a apple-peelin'
                        bekase I tuck a sheet off the bed to splice out the table-cloth, which was
                             ruther short. And the sheet was
                        trios' clean too. Had-n been slep on more'n wunst or
                        twicet. But I was goin'fer to say that when Squire Hawkins married
                        Virginny Gray he got a heap o' money, or, what's the same
                        thing mostly, a heap o' good land. And that's
                        better'n book-larnin, says I. Ef a gal had gone clean through all
                        eddication, and got to the rule of three itself, that would-n buy a
                        feather-bed. Squire Hawkins jest put eddication agin the gal's
                        farm, and traed even, an' ef ary one of 'em got swindled,
                        I never heerd no complaints."
                            1
                            
                                Peart or peert is only another form of the word
                                    pertprobably an older form. Bartlett cites an
                                example of of peart as far back as Sir Philp
                                Sidney and Hallivell finds it in various English dialects. Davies
                                afterward president of Princeton College, describes Dr. Lardner, in
                                1754, as" a little pert old gent."I do not know
                                thai Dr. Davies pronounced his pert as though it
                                were peart, but he uses it in the sense it has in
                                the text, viz., bright witted, intelligent. The general tense of
                                peart is lively, either in body or mind.
                        
                        
                            1
                            Mr. Lowell suggested to me in 1869 that this word 'low has no kinship with allow,
                                but is an independent word for which he gave a Low Latin original of
                                similar sound. I have not been able to trace any such word, but M.
                                Lowell had so much linguistic knowledge of the out-of-the-way sort
                                that it may be worth while to record his impression. Bartlett is
                                wrong in defining this word, as he is usually in his attempts to
                                explain dialect outside of New England. It does not mean
                                "to declare, assert, maintain," etc. It is nearly
                                the equivalents of guess in the Northern and
                                Middle States, and of reckon in the South. It
                                agrees precisely with the New England calk'late. Like all the rest of these words it
                                may have a strong sense by irony. When a man says, "I
                                'low that is a purty peart sort of a hoss," he
                                understands for the sake of emphasis. It is rarely or never allow, but simply 'low.
                                In common with calk'late, it has
                                sometimes a sense of purpose or expectation, as when a man says,
                                "I 'low to go town to-marry."
                        
                        
                            2
                            No phrase of the Hoosier and Southwestern dialect is such a
                                stumbling-block to the outsider as right smart.
                                The writer from the North or East will generally use it wrongly.
                                "Mrs. Stowe" says, "I sold right smart of
                                eggs," but the Hoosier woman as I knew her would havesaid
                                "a right smart lot of eggs" or "a right
                                smart of eggs," using the article and understanding the
                                noun. A farmer omitting the preposition boasts of having
                                "raised right smart corn" this year. No expression
                                could have a more vague sense than this, In the early settlemnt of
                                Minnesota it was a custom of the land officers to require a
                                residence of about ten days on "a claim" in order
                                to the establishment of a pre-emption right. One of the receivers at
                                a land office under Buchanan's administration was a German
                                of much intelligence who was very sensitive regarding his knowledge
                                of English. "How long has the claimant lived on his
                                claim?" he demanded of a Hoosier witness, "Oh, a
                                right smart while," was the reply. The receiver had not the
                                faintest notion of the meaning of the answer, but fearing to betray
                                his ignorance of English he allowed the land to be entered, though
                                the claimant had spent but about two hours in residingon his
                                quarter-section.
                        
                    
                    And here she looked at Ralph in triumph, her hard face splintering into the
                        hideous semblance of a smile. And Mirandy cast a blushing, gushing,
                        all-imploring, and all-confiding look on the young master.
                    "I say, ole woman," broke in old Jack, "I say, wot
                        is all this 'ere spoutin' about the Square fer?"
                        and old Jack, having bit off an ounce of "pigtail,"
                        returned the plug to his pocket.
                    As for Ralph, he fell into a sort of terror. He had a guilty feeling that
                        this speech of the old lady's had somehow committed him beyond
                        recall to Mirandy, He did not see visions of breach-of-promise suits. But he
                        trembled at the thought of an avenging big brother.
                    "Hanner, you kin come along, too, ef you're a  mind, when you git the dishes
                        washed," said "Mrs. Means" to the bound girl, as
                        she shut and latched the back door. The Means family had built a new house
                        in front of the old one, as a sort of advertisement of bettered
                        circumstances, an eruption of shoddy feeling; but when the new building was
                        completed, they found themselves unable to occupy it for anything else than
                        a lumber room, and so, except a parlor which Mirandy had made an effort to
                        furnish a little (in hope of the blissful time when somebody should
                        "set up" with her of evenings), the new building was
                        almost unoccupied, and the family went in and out through the back door,
                        which, indeed, was the front door also, for, according to a curious custom,
                        the "front" of the house was placed toward the south,
                        though the "big road" (Hoosier for highway) ran along the north-west side, or, rather, past the
                        north-west corner of it.
                    When the old woman had spoken thus to Hannah and had latched the door, she
                        muttered, "That gal don't never show no gratitude for
                        favors;" to which Bud rejoined that he didn't think she
                        had no great sight to be pertickler thankful fEr. To which Mrs. Means made
                        no reply, thinking it best, perhaps, not to, wake up her dutiful son on so
                        interesting a theme as her treatment of Hannah. Ralph  felt glad that he was this evening to go to another boarding
                        place. He should not hear the rest of the controversy.
                    Ralph walked to the school-house with Bill. They were friends again. For when
                        flank Banta's ducking and his dogged obstinacy in sitting in his
                        net clothes had brought on a serious fever, Ralph had called together the
                        big boys, and had said: "We must take care of one another, boys.
                        Who will volunteer to take turns sitting up with Henry?" He put his
                        one name down, and all the rest followed.
                    "William Means and myself will sit up to-night," said
                        "Ralph." And poor Bill had been from that moment the
                        teacher's friend. He was chosen to be Ralph's companion.
                        He was Puppy Means no longer! Hank could not be conquered by kindness, and
                        the teacher was made to feel the bitterness; of his resentment long after.
                        But Bill Means was for the time entirely placated, and he and Ralph went to
                        spelling-school together.
                    Every family furnished a candle. There were yellow dips and white dips,
                        burning, smoking, and flaring. There was laughing, and talking, and
                        giggling, and simpering, and ogling, and flirting, and courting. What a
                        full-dress party is to Fifth Avenue, a spelling-school is to Hoopele County.
                        It is an occasion which is metaphorically inscribed with  this legend: "Choose your
                        partners." Spelling is only a blind in Hoopole County as is dancing
                        on, Fifth Avenue. But as there are some in society who love dancing for its
                        own sake, so in Flat Creek district there were those who loved spelling for
                        its own sake, and who, smelling the battle from afar, had come to try their
                        skill in this tournament, hoping to freshen the laurels they had won in
                        their school-days.
                    "I 'low," said "Mr. Means,"
                        speaking as the principal school trustee, "I 'low our
                        friend the Square is jest the man to boss this 'ere consarn
                        to-night. Ef nobody objects, I'll app'int him. Come,
                        Square, don't be bashful. Walk up to the trough, fodder or no
                        fodder, as the man said to his donkey."
                    There was a general giggle at this, and many of the young swains took
                        occasion to nudge the girls alongside them, ostensibly for the purpose of
                        making them see the joke, but really for the pure pleasure of nudging. The
                        Greeks figured Cupid as naked, probably because he wears so many disguises
                        that they could not select a costume for him.
                    The Squire came to the front. Ralph made an inventory of the agglomeration
                        which bore the name of Squire Hawkins, as follows:
                    1. A swallow-tail coat of indefinite age, worn only on state occasions, when
                        its owner was called to figure  in his public
                        capacity. Either the Squire had grown too large or the coat to small.
                    2. A pair of black gloves, the most phenomenal, abnormal, and unexpected
                        apparition conceivable in Flat Creek district, where the preachers wore no
                        coats in the summer, and where a black glove was never seen except on the
                        hands of the Squire.
                    3. A wigs of that dirty, waxen color so common to wogs. This one showed a
                        continual inclination to slip off the owner's smooth, bald pate,
                        and the Squire had frequently to adjust it. As his hair had been red, the
                        wig did not accord with his face, and the hair ungrayed was doubly
                        discordant with a countenance shrivelled by age.
                    4. A semicircular row of whiskers hedging the edge of the jaw and chin. These
                        were dyed a frightful dead-black, such a color as belonged to no natural
                        hair or beard that ever existed. At the roots there was a quarter of an inch
                        of white, giving the whiskers the appearance of having been struck on.
                    5. A pair of spectacles "with tortoise-shell rim." Wont to
                        slip off.
                    6. A glass eye, purchased of a peddler, and differing in color from its
                        natural mate, perpetually getting out of focus by turning in or out
                    7. A set of false teeth, badly fitted, and given to bobbing up and down.
                    
                    8. The Squire proper, to whom these patches were loosely attached.
                    It is an old story that a boy wrote home to his father begging him to come
                        West, because "mighty mean men get into office out here."
                        But Ralph concluded that some Yankees had taught school in Hoopole County
                        who would not have held a high place in the educational institutions of
                        Massachusetts. Hawkins had some New England idioms, but they were well
                        overlaid by a Western pronunciation.
                    "Ladies and gentlemen," he began, shoving up his
                        spectacles, and sucking his lips over his white teeth to keep them in place,
                        "ladies and gentlemen, young men and maidens, raley I'm
                        obleeged to Mr. Means fer this honor," and the Squire took both
                        hands and turned the top of his head round half an inch. Then he adjusted
                        his spectacles. Whether he was obliged to Mr. Means for the honor of being
                        compared to a donkey was not clear. "I feel in the inmost
                        compartments of my animal spirits a most happifying sense of the success and
                        futility of all my endeavors to sarve the people of Flat Creek deestrick,
                        and the people of Tomkins township, in my weak way and manner."
                        This burst of eloquence was delivered with a constrained air and an apparent
                        sense of a danger that he, Squire Hawkins, 
                        might fall to pieces in his weak way and manner, and of the success and
                        futility of all attempts at reconstruction For by this time the ghastly
                        pupil of the left eye, which was black, was looking away round to the left,
                        while the little blue one on the right twinkled cheerfully toward the front.
                        The front teeth would drop down so that the Squire's mouth was kept
                        nearly closed, and his words whistled through.
                    "I feel as if I could be grandiloquent on this interesting
                        occasion," twisting his scalp round," raley I must forego
                        any such extertions. It is spelling you want. Spelling is the corner-stone,
                        the grand, underlying subterfuge, of a good eddication. I put the
                        spellin'-book prepared by the great Daniel Webster alongside the
                        Bible. I do, raley. I think I may put it ahead of the Bible. For if it
                        wurn't fer spellin'-books and sieh occasions as these,
                        where would the Bible be? I should like to know. The man who got up, who
                        compounded this work of extricable valoo was a benufactor to the whole human
                        race or any other." Here the spectacles fell of. The Squire
                        replaced them in some cofusion, gave the top of his head another twist, and
                        felt of his glass eye, while poor Shocky stared in wonder, and Betsey Short
                        rolled from side to side in the effort to suppress her giggle. Mrs. Means
                        and the  other old ladies looked the applause
                        they could not speak.
                    "I app'int Larkin Lanham and Jeems Buchanan fer
                        captings," said the "Squire." And the two young
                        men thus named took a stick and tossed it from hand to hand to decide which
                        should have the "first choice" One tossed the stick to the
                        other, who held it fast just where he happened to catch it. Then the first
                        placed his hand above the second, and so the hands were alternately changed
                        to the top. The one who held the stick last without room for the other to
                        take hold had gained the lot. This was tried three times. As Larkin held the
                        stick twice out of three times, he had the choice. He hesitated a moment.
                        Everybody looked toward tall Jim Phillips. But Larkin was fond of a venture
                        on unknown seas, and so he said,"I take the master," while
                        a buzz of surprise ran round the room, and the captain of the other side, as
                        if afraid his op-ponent would withdraw the choice, retorted quickly, and
                        with a little smack of exultation and defiance in his voice, "And
                            I take Jeems Phillips."
                    And soon all present, except a few of the old folks, found themselves ranged
                        ini opposing hosts, the poor spellers lagging in, with what grace they
                        could, at the foot of the two divisions. The Squire opened his spelling-book
                        and began to give out the  words to the two
                        captains, who stood up and spelled against each other. It was not long until
                        Larkin spelled "really" with one l, and
                        had to sit down in confusion, while a murmur of satisfaction can through the
                        ranks of the opposing forces. His own side bit their lips. The slender
                        figure of the young teacher took the place of the fallen leader, and the
                        excitement made the house very quiet. Ralph dreaded the loss of prestige he
                        would suffer if he should be easily spelled down. And at the moment of
                        rising he saw in the darkest corner the figure of a well-dressed young man
                        sitting in the shadow. Why should his evil genius haunt him? But by a strong
                        effort he turned his attention away from Dr. Small, and listened carefully
                        to the words which the Squire did not pronounce very distinctly, spelling
                        them with extreme deliberation. This gave him an air of hesitation which
                        disappointed those on his own side. They wanted him to spell with a dashing
                        assurance. But he did not begin a word until he I had mentally felt his way
                        through it. After ten minutes of spelling hard words Jeems Buchanan, the
                        captain on the other side, spelled "atrocious" with an s instead of a c, and subsided, his
                        first choice, Jeems Phillips, coming up against the teacher. This brought
                        the excitement to fever heat. For though Ralph was chosen first, it was
                        entirely on trust, and  most of the company
                        were disappointed. The champion who now stood up against the school-master
                        was a famous speller.
                    Jim Phillips was a tall, lank, stoop-shouldered fellow who had never
                        distinguished himself in any other pursuit than spelling. Except in this one
                        art of spelling he was of no account. He could not catch well or bat well in
                        ball. He could not throw well enough to make his mark in that famous West
                        ern game of bull-pen. He did not succeed well in any study but that of
                        Webster's Elementary. But in that he wasto use the usual Flat Creek
                        locutionin that he was "a hoss." This genius for spelling
                        is in some people a sith sense, a matter of intuition. Some spellers are
                        born, and not made, and their facility reminds one of the mathematical
                        prodigies that crop out every now and then to bewilder the world. Bud Means,
                        foreseeing that Ralph would be pitted against Jim Phillips, had warned his
                        friend that Jim could "spell like thunder and lightning,"
                        and that it "took a powerful smart speller "to beat him,
                        for he knew "a heap of spelling-book." To have
                        "spelled down the master "is next thing to having whipped
                        the biggest bully in Hoopole County, and Jim had "spelled down
                        "the last three masters. He divided the hero-worship of the
                        district with Bud Means.
                    For half an hour the Squire gave out hard words.
                    
                    What a blessed thing our crooked orthography is! Without it there could be no
                        spelling-schools. As Ralph discovered his opponent's mettle he
                        became more and more cautions. He was now satisfied that Jim would
                        eventually beat him. The fellow evi-dently knew more about the spelling-book
                        than old Noah Webster himself. As he stood there, with his dull face and
                        long sharp nose, his hands behind his back, and his voice spelling
                        infallibly, it seemed to Hartsookthat his superiority must lie in his nose.
                        Ralph's cautiousness answered a double purpose; it enabled him to
                        tread surely, and it was mistaken by Jim for weakness. Phillips was now
                        confident that he should carry off the scalp of the fourth school-master
                        before the evening was over. He spelled eagerly, confidently, brilliantly.
                        Stoop-shouldered as he was, he began to straighten up. In the minds of all
                        the company the odds were in his favor. He saw this, and became ambitious to
                        distinguish himself by spelling without giving the matter any thought.
                    Ralph always believed that he would have been speedily defeated by Phillips
                        had it not been for two ' thoughts which braced him. The sinister
                        shadow of young Dr. Small sitting in the dark corner by the water-bucket
                        nerved him. A victory over Phillips was a defeat to one who wished only ill
                        to the young  school-master. The other thought
                        that kept his pluck alive was the recollection of Bull. He approached a word
                        as Bull approached the raccoon. He did not take hold until he was sure of
                        his game. When he took hold, it was with a quiet assurance of success. As
                        Ralph spelled in this dogged way for half an hour the hardest words the
                        Squire could find, the excitement steadily rose in all parts of the house,
                        and Ralph's friends even ventured to whisper that "maybe
                        Jim had cotched his match, after all!"
                    But Phillips never doubted of his success.
                    "Theodolite," said the "Squire."
                    "T-h-e, the, o-d, od, theod, o, theodo, l-y-t-e, the
                        odolite," spelled the champion.
                    "Next," said the "Squire," nearly losing
                        his teeth in his excitement. Ralph spelled the word slowly and correctly,
                        and the comquered champion sat down in confusion. The excitement was so
                        great for some minutes that the spelling was suspended. Every-body in the
                        house had shown sympathy with one or the other of the combatants, except the
                        silent shadow in the corner. It had not moved during the contest, and did
                        not show any interest now in the result.
                    "Gewhilliky crickets! Thunder and lightning! Licked him all to
                        smash!" said Bud, rubbing his  hands
                        on his knees. "That beats my time all holler!"
                    And Betsey Short giggled until her tuck-comb ' fell out, though she
                        was on the defeated side.
                    Shocky got up and danced with pleasure.
                    But one suffocating look from the aqueous eyes of Mirandy destroyed the last
                        spark of Ralph's pleasure in his triumph, and sent that awful
                        below-zero feeling all through him.
                    "He's powerful smart, is the master," said
                        "old Jack to Mr. Pete Jones." "He'll
                        beat the whole kit and tuck of em afore he's through. I
                        know'd he was smart. That's the reason I tuck
                        him," proceeded Mr. Means.
                    "Yaas, but he don't lick enough. Not nigh,"
                        answered Pete Jones. "No lickin', no larnin',
                        says I."
                    It was now not so hard. The other spellers on the opposite side went down
                        quickly under the hard words which the Squire gave out. The master had mowed
                        down all but a few, his opponents had given up the battle, and all had lost
                        their keen interest in a contest to which there could be but one conclusion,
                        for there were only the poor spellers left. But Ralph Ilartsook ran against
                        a stump where he was least expecting it. It was the Squire's
                        custom, when one of the smaler scholars or pooere spellers rose to spell
                        against the master, to give out  eight or ten
                        easy words, that they might have some breathing-spell before being
                        slaughtered, and then to give a poser or two which soon settled them. He let
                        them run a little, as a cat does a doomed mouse. There was now but one
                        person left on the opposite side, and, as she rose in her blue calico dress,
                        Ralph recognized Hannah, the bound girl at old Jack Means's. She
                        had not attended school in the district, and had never spelled in
                        spelling-school before, and was chosen last as an uncertain quantity. The
                        Squire began with easy words of two syllables, from that page of Webster, so
                        well known to all who ever thumbed it, as "baker," from
                        the word that stands at the top of the page. She spelled these words in an
                        absent and uninterested manner. As everybody knew that she would have to go
                        down as soon as this preliminary skirmishing was over, everybody began to
                        get ready go home, and already there was the buzz of preparation. Young men
                        were timidly asking girls if "they could see them safe
                        home," which was the approved formula, and were trwmbling in mortal
                        fear of "the mitten." Presently the Squire, thinking it
                        time to close the contest, pulled his scalp forward, adjusted his glass eye,
                        which had been examining his nose long enough, and turned over the leaves of
                        the book to the great words at the place known to spellers  as "incomprehensibility,"
                        and began to give out those "words of eight syllables with the
                        accent on the sixth." Listless sholars now turned round, and ceased
                        to whisper, in order to bein at the master's final triumph. But to
                        their surprise "ole Miss Meanses' white nigger,"
                        as some of them called her in allusion to her slavish life, spelled these
                        great words with as perfect ease as the master. Still not doubting the
                        result, the Squire turned from place to place and selected all the hard
                        words he could find. The school became utterly quiet, the excitement was too
                        great for the ordi nary buzz. Would "Meanses'
                        Hanncr" beat the master? beat the master that had laid out Jim
                        Phillips? Everybody's sympathy was now turned to Hannah. Ralph
                        noticed that even Shocky had deserted him, and that his face grew brilliant
                        every time Hannah spelled a word. In fact, Ralph desertcd himself. As he saw
                        the fine, timid face of the girl so long oppressed flush and shine with
                        interest; as he looked at the rather low but broad and intelligent brow and
                        the fresh, white compllexion and saw the rich, womanly nature coming to the
                        surface under the influence of applause and sympathyhe did not want to beat.
                        If he had not felt that a victory given would insult her, he would have
                        missed intentionally. The bulldog, the stern, 
                        relentless setting of the will, had gone, he knew not whither. And there had
                        come in its place, as he looked in that face, a something which he did not
                        understand. You did not, gentle reader, the first time it came to you.
                    The Squire was puzzled. He had given out all the hard words in the book. He
                        again pulled the top of his head forward. Then he wiped his spectacles and
                        put them on. Then out of the depths of his pocket he fished up a list of
                        words just coming into use in those dayswords not in the spellling-book. He
                        regarded the paper attentively with his blue right eye. His black left eye
                        meanwhile fixed itself in such a stare on Wirandy Means that she shuddered
                        and hid her eyes in her red silk handkerchief.
                    "Daguerreotype," sniffed the Squire. It was
                        Ralph's turn.
                    "D-a-u, dau"
                    "Next."
                    And Hannah spelled it right.
                    Such a buzz followed that Betsey Short's giggle could not be heard,
                        but Shocky shouted: "Hanner beat! my Hanner spelled down the
                        master!" And Ralph went over and congratulated her.
                    And Dr. Small sat perfectly still in the corner.
                    And then the Squire called them to order, and 
                        said: "As our friend Hanner Thomson is the only one left on her
                        side, she will have to spell against nearly all on t'other side. I
                        shall therefore take the liberty of procrastinating the completion of this
                        interesting and exacting contest until to-morrow evening. I hope our friend
                        Hanner may again carry off the cypress crown of glory. There is nothing
                        better for us than healthful and kindly simulation."
                    Dr. Small, who knew the road to practice, escorted Miramiy, and Bud went home
                        with some-body else. The others of the Means family hurried on, while
                        Hannah, the champion, stayed behind a minute to speak to Shocky. Perhaps it
                        was because Ralph saw that Hannah must go alone that he suddenly remembered
                        having left something which was of no consequence, and resolved to go round
                        by Mr. Means's and get it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                    THE WALK HOME.
                    You expect me to describe that walk. You have had enough of the Jack Meanses
                        and the Squire Hawkinses, and the Pete Joneses, and the rest. You wish me to
                        tell you now of this true-hearted girl and her lover; of how the silvery
                        moonbeams came down in a showerto use Whittier's favorite
                        metaphorthrough the maple boughs, flecking the frozen ground with light and
                        shadow. You would have me tell of the evening star, not yet gone down, which
                        shed its benediction on them. But I shall do no such thing. For the moon was
                        not shining, neither did the stars give their light. The tall, black trunks
                        of the maples swayed and shook in the wind, which moaned through their
                        leafless boughs. Novelists always make lovers walk in the moonlight. But if
                        love is not, as the cynics be-light. Moonlight is never so little needed or
                        heeded, never so much of an impertinence, as in a love-scene. It was at the
                        bottom of the first hollow  beyond the
                        school-house that Ralph overtook the timid girl walking swiftly through the
                        dark. He did not ask permission to walk with her. Love does not go gy words,
                        and there are times when conventionality is impossible. There are people who
                        understand one another at once. When one soul meets another, it is not by
                        pass-word, nor by hailing sign, nor by mysterious grip that they recognize.
                        The subtlest freemasonry in the world is this freemasonry of the spirit.
                    Ralph and Hannah knew and trusted. Ralph had admired and wondered at the
                        quiet drudge. But it was when, in the unaccustomed sunshine of praise, she
                        spread her wings a little, that he loved her. He had seen her awake.
                    You, Miss Amelia, wish me to repeat all their love-talk. I am afraid
                        you'd find it dull. Love can pipe through any kind of a reed. Ralph
                        talked love to Hannah when he spoke of the weather, of the crops, of the
                        spelling school. Weather, crops, and spelling schoolthese were what his
                        words would say if reported. But below all these commonplaces there vibrated
                        something else. One can make love a great deal better when one
                        doesn't speak of love. Words are so poor! Tones and modulations are
                        better. It is an old story that Whitefield could make an audience weep by
                        his  way of pronouncing the word Mesopotamia. A
                        saying Good-morning. The solemnest engagements ever made have been without
                        the intervention of speech.
                    And you, my Gradgrind friend, you think me sentimental. Two young fools they
                        were, walking so slowly though the night was sharp, dallying under the
                        trees, and dreaming of a heaven they could not have realized if all their
                        wishes had been granted. Of course they were fools! Either they were fools
                        to be so happy, or else some other people are fools not to be. After all,
                        dear Gradgrind, let them be. There's no harm in it.
                        They'll get trouble enough before morning. Let them enjoy we write
                        down fools are the only wise people, after all. Is it not wise to be happy?
                        Let them alone.
                    For the first time in three years, for the first time since she had crossed
                        the threshold of "Old Jack Means" and come under the
                        domination of Mrs Old Jack Means, Hannah talked cheerfully, almost gaily. It
                        was something to have a companion to talk to. It was something to be the
                        victor even in a spelling-match, and to be applauded even by Flat Creek. And
                        so, chatting earnestly about the most uninteresting themes, Ralph
                        courteously  helped Hannah over the fence, and
                        they took the usual short-cut through the "blue-grass
                        pasture." There came up a little shower, hardly more than a
                        sprinkle, but then it was so nice to have a shower just as they reached the
                        box-elder tree by the spring! It was so thoughtful in Ralph to suggest that
                        the shade of a box-elder is dense, and that Hannah might take cold! And it
                        was so easy for Hannah to yield to the suggestion! Just as though she had
                        not milked the cows in the open lot in the worst storms of the last three
                        years! And just as Doubtless it was not prudent to stop here. But let us
                        deal gently with them. Who would not stay in an earthy paradise ten minutes
                        longer, even though it did make purgatory the hotter afterward? And so
                        Hannah stayed.
                    "Tell me your circumstances," said
                        "Ralph", at last. "I am sure Ican help you in
                        something." "No, no! you cannot,"and
                        Hannah's face was clouded. "No one can help me. Only time
                        and God. I must go, Mr. Hartsook." And they walked on to the front
                        gate in silence and in some constraint. But still in happiness.
                    As they came to the gate, Dr. Small pushed past them in his coll, deliberate
                        way, and mounted his horse. Ralph bade Hannah good-night, having entirely
                             forgotten the errand which had been his
                        ex-cuse to himself for coming out of his way. He hastened to his new home,
                        the house of Mr. Pete Jones, the same who believed in the inseparableness of
                        "lickin and larnun'."
                    "You're a purty gal, a'n't you?
                        You're a purty gal, a'n't you? Yon air! Yes, you air!!" and Mrs. Means
                        seemed so impressed with Hannah's prettiness that she choked on it,
                        and could get no further. "A purty gal! you! Yes! you air a mighty
                        purty gal!" and the old woman's voice rose till it could
                        have been heard half a mile. "To be a-santerin' along the
                        big road after ten o'clock with the master! Who knows whether
                        he's a fit man fer anybody to go with? Arter all I've been
                        and gone and done fer you! That's the way you pay me! Disgrace me!
                        Yes, I say disgrace me! You're a mean, deceitful thing. Stuck up
                        bekase you spelt the master down. Ketch me lettin you got
                        to spellin'-school to-morry night! Ketch ME! Yes, ketch ME, I
                        say!"
                    "Looky here, marm," said "Bud",
                        "it seems to me you're a-makin' a blamed furss
                        about nothin'. Don't ' yell so's
                        they'll hear you three or four mile. You'll have everybody
                        'tween here and Clifty waked up." For Mrs. Means had
                        become so excited over the idea of being caught allowing Hannah to go to  spelling-school that she had raised her last
                        "Ketch mel "to a perfect whoop.
                    "That's the way I'm treated," whimpered
                        the old woman, who knew how to take the "injured
                        innocence" dodge as well as anybody. "That's the
                        way I'm treated. You alters take sides with that air hussy agin
                        your own flesh and blood. You don't keer how much trouble I have.
                        Not you. Not a dog-on'd bit. I may be disgraced by that air
                        on-grateful critter, and you set right here in my own house and sass me
                        about it. A purty fellow you air! An' me a delvin' and a
                        drudgin' fer you all my born days. A purty son,
                        a'n't you?"
                    Bud did not say another word. He sat in the chimney-corner and whistled
                        "Dandy Jim from Caroline." His diversion had produced the
                        effect he sought: for while his tender-hearted mother poured her broadside
                        into his iron-clad feelings, Hannah had slipped up the stairs to her garret
                        bedroom, and when Mrs. Means turned from the callous Bud to finish her
                        assault upon the sensitive girl, she could only gnash her teeth in
                        disappointment. Stung by the insults to which she could not grow insensible,
                        Hannah lay awake until the memory of that walk through the darkness came
                        into her soul like a benediction. The harsh voice of the scold died out, and
                        trie gentle and courteous voice ot
                    
                    Hartsook filled her soul. She recalled piece by piece the whole
                        conversationall the commonplace remarks about the weather; all the
                        insignificant remarks about the crops; all the unimportant words about the
                        spelling-school. Not for the sake of the remarks. Not for the sake of the
                        weather. Not for the sake of the crops. Not for the sake of the
                        spelling-school. But for the sake of the undertone. And then she traveled
                        back over the three years of her bondage and forward over the three years to
                        come, and fed her heart on the dim hope of rebuilding in some form the home
                        that had been so happy. And she prayed, with more faith than ever before,
                        for deliverance. For love brings faith. Somewhere on in the sleepless night
                        she stood at the window. The moon was shining now, and there was the path
                        through the pasture, and there was the fence, and there was the box-elder.
                    She sat there a long time. Then she saw some one come over the fence and walk
                        to the tree, and then on toward Pete Jones's. Who could it be She
                        thought she recognized the figure. But she was chilled and shivering, and
                        she crept back again into bed, and dreamed not of the uncertain days to
                        come, but of the blessed days that were pastof a father and a mother and a
                        brother in a happy home. But somehow the school-master was there too.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                    A NIGHT AT PETE JONES'S.
                    WHEN Ralph got to Pete Jones's he found that sinister-looking
                        individual in the act of kicking one of his many dogs out of the house.
                    "Come in, stranger, come in. You'll find this 'ere
                        house full of brats, but I guess you kin kick-git out! go to thunder with
                        you! "And with these mild imperatives he boxed one of his boys over
                        in one direction and one of his girls over in the other.
                    "I believe in trainin' up children to mind when
                        they're spoke to," he said to Ralph apologetically. But it
                        seemed to the teacher that he wanted them to mind just a little before they
                        were spoken to.
                    "P'raps you'd like a bed. Well, jest climb up the
                        ladder on the outside of the house. Takes up a thunderin' sight of
                        room to have a stairs inside, and we ha'n't got no room to
                        spare. You'll find a bed in the furdest corner. My Pete's
                        already got half of it, and you can take t'other half. Ef Pete goes
                        to takin' his half in the middle, and tryin' to make you
                        take yourn on both sides, jest kick him."
                    
                    In this comfortless bed "in the furdest corner," Ralph
                        found sleep out of the question. Pete took three-fourths of the bed, and
                        Hannah took all of his thoughts. So he lay, and looked out through the
                        cracks in the "clapboards"(as they call rough shingles in
                        the old West) at the stars. For the clouds had now broken away. And he lay
                        thusrecounting to himself, as a miser counts the pieces that compose his
                        hoard, every step of that road from the time he had overtaken Hannah in the
                        hollow to the fence. Then he imagined again the pleasure of helping her
                        over, and then he retraced the ground to the box-elder tree at the spring,
                        and repeated to himself the conversation until he came to the part in which
                        she said that only time and God could help her. What did she mean What was
                        the hidden part of her life? What was the connection between her and Shocky?
                    Hours wore on, and still the mind of Ralph Hart-sook went back and traveled
                        the same road, over the fence, past the box-elder, up to the inexplicable
                        part of the conversation, and stood bewildered with the same puzzling
                        questions about the bound girl's life.
                    At last he got up, drew on his clothes, and sat down on the top of the
                        ladder, looking down over the blue-grass pasture which lay on the border
                        between  the land of Jones and the land of
                        Means, sleep. Why not walk? It might enable him to sleep. And once
                        determined on walking, he did not hesitate a moment as to the sirection in
                        which he should walk. The blue grass pasture (was it not like unto the
                        garden of Eden?) lay right before him, That box-elder stood just in sight.
                        To spring over the fence and take the path down the hill and over the brook
                        was as quickly done as decided upon. over the farther fence, and to walk
                        down the road lightful that it was done without thought. For Ralph was an
                        eager manwhen he saw no wrong low his impulse without deliberation. And this
                        keeping company with the stars, and the memory of a delightful walk, were so
                        much better than the commonplace Flat Creek life that he threw himself into
                        his night excurision with enthusiasm.
                    At last he stood in the little hollow where he had joined Hannah. It was the
                        very spot at which Shocky, too, had met him a few mornings before. He leaed
                        against the fence and tried again to solve the puzzle of Hannah's
                        troubles. For that she had troubles he did not doubt. Neither did he doubt
                             that he could help her if he could
                        discover what they were. But he had no clue. In the midst of his meditations
                        he heard the thud of horses' hoofs coming down the road. Until that
                        moment he had not felt his own loneliness. Tic shrank back into the
                        fence-corner. The horsemen were galloping. There were three of them, and
                        there was one figure that seemed familiar to Ralph. But he could not tell
                        who it was. Neither could he remember having seen the horse, which was a
                        sorrel with a white left forefoot and a white nose. The men noticed him and
                        reined up a little. Why he should have been startled by the presence of
                        these men he could not tell, but an indefinable dread seized him. They
                        galloped on, and he stood still shivering with a never fear. The cold seemed
                        to have got into his bones. He remembered that the region lying on Flat
                        Creek and Clifty Creek had the reputation of being infested with thieves,
                        who practiced horse-stealing and house-breaking. For ever since the day when
                        Murrell's confederate bands were paralyzed by the death of their
                        leader, there have still existed gangs of desperadoes in parts of Southern
                        Indiana and Illinois, and in Iowa, Missouri, Ken-tucky, and the South-west.
                        It is out of these ma. terials that border ruffianism has grown, and the
                        nine members of the reno band who were hanged 
                        two or three years ago by lynch law, were remains of the bad blood that came
                        into the West in the days of Daniel Boone. Shall I not say that these bands
                        of desperadoes still found among the "poor whitey,"
                        "dirt-eater"class are the outcroppings of the bad blood
                        sent from England in convict-ships? Ought an old country to sow the fertile
                        soil of a colony with such noxious seed?
                    Before Ralph was able to move, he heard the hoofs of another horse striking
                        upon the hard ground in an easy pace. The rider was Dr. Small. He checked
                        his horse in a cool way, and stood still a few seconds while he scrutinized
                        Ralph. Then he rode on, keeping the same easy gait as before. Ralph had a
                        superstitious horror of Henry Small. And, shuddering with told, he crept
                        like a thief over the fence, past the tree, through the pasture, back looked
                        out of the window at Means's. Climbing the ladder, he got into bed,
                        and shook as with the ague. He tried to reason himself out of the foolish
                        terror that possessed him, but he could not.
                    Half an hour later he heard a latch raised. Were the robbers breaking into
                        the house below? He heard a soft tread upon the floor. Should he rise and
                        give the alarm? Something restrained him.
                    
                    He reflected that a robber would be sure to stumble over some of the
                        "brats." So he lay still and finally slumbered, only
                        awakening when the place in which he slept was full of the smoke of frying
                        grease from the room below.
                    At breakfast Pete Jones scowled. He was evidently angry about something. He
                        treated Ralph with a rudeness not to be overlooked, as if he intended to
                        bring on a quarrel. Hartsook kept cool, and wished he could drive from his
                        mind all memory of the past night. Why should men on horseback have any
                        significance to him? He was trying to regard things in this way, and from a
                        general desire to keep on good terms with his host he went to the stable to
                        offer his services in helping to feed the stock.
                    "Don't want no saft-handed help!" was all he got
                        in return for his well-meant offer. But just as he turned to leave the
                        stable he saw what made him tremble again. There was the same sorrel horse
                        with a white left forefoot and a white nose.
                    To shake off his nervousness, Ralph started to school before the time. But,
                        plague upon plagues! Mirandy Means, who had seen him leave Pete
                        Jones's, started just in time to join him where he came into the
                        big road. Ralph was not in a good humor after his wakeful night, and to be
                        thus  dogged by Mirandy did not help the
                        matter. So he found himself speaking crabbedly to the daughter of the
                        leading trustee, in spite of himself.
                    "Hanner's got a bad cold this mornin' from
                        bein' out last night, and she can't come to
                        spellin'-school to-night," began Mirandy, in her most
                        simpering voice.
                    Ralph had forgotten that there was to be another spelling-school. It seemed
                        to him an age since the orthographical conflict of the past night. This
                        remark of Mirandy's fell upon his ear like an echo from the distant
                        past. He had lived a lifetime since, and was not sure that he was the same
                        man who was spelling for dear life against Jim Phillips twelve hours before.
                        But he was sorry to hear that Hannah had a cold. It seemed to him, in his
                        depressed state, that he was to blame for it. In fact, it seemed to him that
                        he was to blame for a good many things. He seemed to have been committing
                        sins in spite of himself. Broken nerves and sleepless nights often result in
                        a morbid conscience. And what business had he to wander over this very road
                        at two o'clock in the morning, and to see three galloping horsemen,
                        one of them on a horse with a white left forefoot and a white nose? What
                        business had he watching Dr. Small as he went home from the bedside of a
                        dying patient near daylight  in the morning?
                        And because he felt guilty he felt cross with Mirandy, and to her remark
                        about Hannah he only replied that "Hannah was a smart
                        girl."
                    "Yes," said "Mirandy", "Bud
                        thinks so."
                    "Does he?" said "Ralph".
                    "I should say so. What's him and her been
                        a-courtin' fer for a year of he didn't think she was
                        smart? Mann don't like it; but of Bud and her does, and they seem
                        to, I don't see as it's marm's lookout."
                    When one is wretched, there is a pleasure in being entirely wretched. Ralph
                        felt that he must have committed some Nemesis was following him. Was Hannah
                        deceitful? At least, if she were not, he felt sure that he could supplant
                        Bud. But what right had he to supplant Bud?
                    "Did you hear the news?" cried "Shocky",
                        running out to meet him. "The Dutchman's house was robbed
                        last night."
                    Ralph thought of the three men on horseback, and to save his life he could
                        not help associating Dr. Small with them. And then he remembered the sorrel
                        horse with the left forefoot and muzzle white, and he recalled the sound he
                        had heard as of the lifting of a latch. And it really seemed to him that in
                        knowing what he did he was in some sense guilty of the robbery.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                    OMINOUS REMARKS OF MR. JONES.
                    THE school-master's mind was like ancient
                        Gaul-divided into three parts. With one part he mechanically performed his
                        school duties. With another he asked himself, What shall I do about the
                        robbery? And with the third he debated about Bud and Hannah. For Bud was not
                        present, and it was I clear that he was angry, and there was a storm
                        brewing. In fact, it seemed to Ralph that there was a storm brewing all
                        round the sky. For Pete Jones was evidently angry at the thought of having
                        been watched, and it was fair to suppose that Dr. Small was not in any
                        better humor than usual. And so, between Bud's jealousy and revenge
                        and the suspicion and resentment of the men engaged in the robbery at
                        "the Dutchman's "(as the only German in the whole
                        region was called), Ralph's excited nerves had cause for tremor. At
                        one moment he would resolve to have Hannah at all costs. In the next his
                        conscience would question the rightfulness of the conclusion. Then he would
                        make  up his mind to tell all he knew about
                        the robbery. But if he told his suspicions about Small, nobody would believe
                        him. And if he told about Pete Jones, he really could tell only enough to
                        bring vengeance upon himself. And how could he ex-plain his own walk through
                        the pasture and down the road? What business had he being out of bed at two
                        o'clock in the morning? The circumstantial evidence was quite as
                        strong against him as against the man on the horse with the white left
                        forefoot and the while nose. Suspicion might fasten on himself. And then
                        what would be the effect on his prospects? On the people at Lewisburg? On
                        Hannah? It is astonishing how much instruction and comfort there is in a
                        bulldog. This slender schoolmaster, who had been all his life repressing the
                        animal and developing the finer nature, now found a need of just what the
                        bulldog had. And so, with the thought of how his friend the dog would fight
                        in a desperate strait, he determined to take hold of his difficulties as
                        Bull took hold of the raccoon. Moral questions he postponed for careful
                        decision. But for the present he set his teeth together in a desperate,
                        bulldog fashion, and he set his feet down slowly, positively, bulldoggedly.
                        After a wretched supper at Pete Jones's he found himself at the
                        spelling-school, which, owing to the absence of Hannah,  and the excitement about the burglary, was a dull affair. Half
                        the evening was spent in talking in little knots. Pete Jones had taken the
                        afflicted "Dutchman" under his own particular supervision.
                    "I s'pose," said "Pete",
                        "that them air fellers what Run. They're the blamedest set
                        up there I ever see."
                    "Ya as," said "Schroeder", "put
                        how did Yinkina vellers know dat I sell te medder to te Shquire, hey? How
                        tid Yinkins know anyting 'bout the Shquire's
                        bayin' me dree huntert in te hard gashhey?"
                    "Some scoundrels down in these 'ere parts is
                        a-layin' in with Jinkins Run, I'll bet a boss,"
                        said "Pete". Ralph wondered whether he'd bet the
                        one with the white left forefoot and the white nose.
                        "Now," said "Pete", "ef I could
                        find the feller that's a-helpin' them scoundrels rob us
                        folks, I'd help stretch him to the neardest tree."
                    "So vood I," said "Schroeder".
                        "I'd shtretch him dill he baid me my dree huntert tollars
                        pack, so I vood."
                    And Betsey Short, who had found the whole affair very funny, was transported
                        with a fit of tittering at poor Schroeder's English. Ralph, fearing
                        that his silence would excite suspicion, tried to talk.
                    
                    But he could not tell what he knew, and all that he said sounded so hollow
                        and hypocritical that it made him feel guilty. And so he shut his mouth, and
                        meditated profitably on the subject of bulldogs. And when later he overheard
                        the garrulous Jones declare that he'd bet a hoss he could
                        p'int out somebody as know'd a blamed sight
                        more'n they keerd to tell, he made up his mind that if it came to
                        p'inting out he should try to be even wit Jones.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                    THE STRUGGLE IN THE DARK. I
                    IT was a long, lonesome, fearful night that the
                        school-master passed, lying with nerves on edge and eyes wide open in that
                        comfortless bed in the "furdest corner "of the loft of
                        "Pete Jones's" house, shivering with cold, while
                        the light snow that was falling sifted in upon the ragged patch-work quilt
                        that covered him. Nerves broken by sleeplessness imagine many things, and
                        for the first hour Ralph felt sure that Pete would cut his throat before
                        morning.
                    And you, friend Callow, who have blunted your palate by swallowing the
                        Cayenne pepper of the penny-dreadfuls, you wish me to make this night
                        exciting by a hand-to-hand contest between Ralph and a robber. You would
                        like it better if there were a trap-door. There's nothing so
                        convenient as a trap-door, unless it be a subterranean passage. And
                        you'd like something of that sort just here. It's so
                        pleasant to have one's hair stand on end, did know, when one is
                        safe from danger to one's self. But if you want each individual
                        hair to bristle with  such a
                        "Struggle in the Dark," you can buy trapdoors and
                        subterranean passages dirt cheap at the next news-stand. But it was, indeed,
                        a real and terrible "Struggle in the Dark" that Ralph
                        fought out at Pete Jones's.
                    When he had vanquished his fears of personal violence by reminding himself
                        that it would be folly for Jones to commit murder in his own house, the
                        question of Bud and Hannah took the uppermost place in his thoughts. And as
                        the image of Hannah spelling against the master came up to him, as the
                        memory of the walk, the talk, the box-elder tree, and all the rest took
                        possession of him, it seemed Ralph that his very life depended upon his
                        securing her love. He would shut his teeth like the jaws of a bulldog, and
                        all Bud's muscles should not prevail over his resolution and his
                        stratagems.
                    It was easy to persuade himself that this was right. Hannah ought not to
                        throw herself away on Bud Means. Men of some culture always play their
                        conceit off against their consciences. To a man of literary habits it
                        usually seems to be a great boon that the confers on a woman when he gives
                        her his love. Reasoning thus, Ralph had fixed his resolution, and if the
                        night had been shorter, or sleep possible, the color of his life might have
                        been changed.
                    
                    But some time along in the tedious hours came the memory of his childhood,
                        the words of his mother, the old Bible stories, the aspiration after
                        nobility of spirit, the solemn resolutions to be true to his conscience.
                        These angles of the memory came flocking back before the animal, the bull
                        doggedness, had "set," as workers in plaster say. He
                        remembered the story of David and Nathan, and it seemed to him that he, with
                        all his abilities and ambitions and prospects, was about to rob Bud of the
                        one ewe-lamb, the only thing he had to rejoice in in his life. In getting
                        Hannah, he would make himself unworthy of Hannah. And then there come to him
                        a vision of the supreme value of a true character; how it was better than
                        success, better than to be loved, better than heaven. And how near he had
                        been to missing it! And how certain he was, when these thoughts should fade,
                        to miss it! He was as one fighting for a great prize who feels his strength
                        failing and is sure of defeat. This was the real, awful "Struggle
                        in the Dark." A human soul fighting with heaven in sight hut
                        certain of slipping inevitably into hell! It was the same old battle. The
                        Image of God fought with the Image of the Devil. It was the same fight that
                        Paul described so dramatically when he represented the Spirit as contending
                        with the Flesh. Paul also  called this
                        dreadful something the Old Adam, and I suppose Darwin would call it the
                        remains of the Wild Beast. But call it what you will, it is the battle that
                        every well-endowed soul must fight at some point. And to Ralph it seemed
                        that the final victory of the Evil, the Old Adam, the Flesh, the Wild Beast,
                        the Devil was certain. For was not the pure, unconscious face of Hannah on
                        the Devil's side? And so the battle had just as well be given up at
                        once, for it must be lost in the end.
                    But to Ralph, lying there in the still darkness, with his conscience as wide
                        awake as if were the Day of Doom, there seemed something so terrible in this
                        overflow of the better nature which he knew to be inevitable as soon as the
                        voice of conscience became blunted, that he looked about for help. He did
                        not at first think of God; but there came into his thoughts the memory of
                        travel-worn Galilean peasant, hungry, sleepy, weary, tempted, tried, like
                        other men, but having a strange, divine Victory in him by which everything
                        evil was vanquished at his coming. He remembered how He had reached out a
                        Hand to every helpless one how. He was the Helper of every weak one. And out
                        of the depths of his soul he cried to the Helper, and found comfort. Not
                        victory, but, what is better, strength." And so, without a thought
                        of the niceties of theological  distinctions,
                        without dreaming that it was the beginning of a religious experience, he
                        found what he needed, help. And the Helper gave His beloved sleep.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                    HAS GOD FORGOTTEN SHOCKY?
                    "PAP wants to know of you would spend to morry and Sunday at our
                        house?" said one of squire Hawkins's girls on the very
                        next evening which was friday. The old Squire was thoughtful enough to
                        remember that Ralph would not find it very pleasant "boarding
                        out" all the time he was entitled to spend at Pete
                        Jones's. For in view of the fact that Mr. Pete Jones's
                        Sent seven children to the school, the "master "in Flat
                        Creek district was bound to spend two weeks in that comfortable place,
                        sleeping in a preoccupied bed, in the "fur-dest corner."
                        With insufficient cover, under an insufficient roof, and eating floating
                        islands of salt pork fished out of oceans of hot lard. Ralph was rot slow to
                        accept the relief offered by the hospitable justice of the peace, whose
                        principal business seemed to be the adjustment of the pieces of which he was
                        composed. And as Shocky traveled the same road, Ralph took advantage of the
                        opportunity to talk with him. The master could not dismiss  Hannah wholly from his mind. He would at
                        least read the mystery of her life, if Shocky could be prevailed on to
                        furnish the clue.
                    "Poor old tree!" said Shocky, pointing to a crooked and
                        gnarled elm standing by itself in the middle of a field. For when the elm,
                        naturally the most graceful of trees, once gets a "bad
                        set," it can grow to be the most deformed. This solitary tree had
                        not a single straight limb.
                    "Why do you say ' poor old tree '?" asked
                        "Ralph".
                    "'Cause it's lonesome. All its old friends is dead
                        and chopped down, and there's their stumps a-standin' jes
                        like grave-stones. It must be lonesome. Some folks says it
                        don't feel, but I think it does. Everything seems to think and
                        feel. See it nodding its head to them other trees in the wood, and a
                        wantin' to shake hands! But it can't move I think that
                        tree must a growed in the night."
                    "Why, Shocky?"
                    "'Cause it's so crooked," and Shocky
                        laughed at his own conceit; "must a growed when they was no light
                        so as it could see how to grow."
                    And then they walked on in silence a minute. Presently Shocky began looking
                        up into Ralph's eyes to get a smile. "I guess that tree
                        feels just like me. Don't you?"
                    
                    "Why, how do you feel?"
                    "Kind o' bad and lonesome, and like as if I wanted to die,
                        you know. Felt that way ever sence they put my father into the graveyard,
                        and sent my mother to the poor-house and Hanner to ole Miss
                        Means's. What kind of a place is a poor-house? Is it a poorer place
                        than means's? I wish I was dead and one of them clouds was
                        a-carryin' me and Hanner and mother up to where father's
                        gone, you know! I wonder if God forgets all about poor folks when their
                        father dies and their mother gits into the poor house? Do you think He does?
                        Seems so to me. Maybe God lost track of my father when he come away from
                        England and crossed over the sea. Don't nobody on Flat Creek keer
                        fer God, and I guess God don't keer for Flat Creek. But I would,
                        though, of he'd git my mother out of the poor house and git Hanner
                        away from Means's, and let me kiss my mother every night, you know,
                        and I sleep on my Hanner's arm, jes like I used to afore father
                        died, you see."
                    Ralph wanted to speak, but he couldn't. And so Shocky, with his eyes
                        looking straight ahead, and as if forgetting Ralph's presence, told
                        over the thoughts that he had often talked over to the fence-rails and the
                        trees. "It was real good in Mr. Pearson to take me, wasn't
                        it? Else I'd a been  bound out tell I
                        was twenty-one, maybe, to some mean man like Ole Means. And I
                        a'n't but seven. And it would take me fourteen years to
                        git twenty-one and I never could live with my mother again after Hanner gets
                        done her time. 'Cause, you see, Hanner'll be through in
                        three more year, and I'll be ten and able to work, and
                        we'll git a little place about as big as Granny Sanders's,
                        and mdash;"
                    Ralph did not hear another word of what Shocky said that afternoon. For
                        there, right before them, was Granny Sanders's log-cabin, with its
                        row of lofty sunflower stalks, now dead and dry, in front, with its
                        rain-water barrel by the side of the low door, and its ash-barrel by the
                        feace. In this cabin lived alone the old and shriveled hag whose hideous
                        gave her a reputation for the almost supernatural knowledge. She was at once
                        doctress and newspaper. She collected and disseminated medicinal herbs and
                        personal gossip. She was in every regard indispensable to the intellectual
                        life of the neighborhood. In the matter of her medical skill we cannot
                        express an opinion, for her "yarbs" are not to be found in
                        the pharmacopocea of science.
                    What took Ralph's breath was to find Dr. Small's fine,
                        faultless horse standing at the door. What did Henry Small want to visit
                        this old quack for?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X.
                    THE DEVIL OF SILENCE.
                    RALPH had reason to fear Small, who was a native of the
                        same village of Lewisburg, and some five years the elder. Some facts in the
                        doctor's life had come into Ralph's possession in such a
                        way as to confirm life-long suspication without giving him power to expose
                        Small, who was firmly intrenched in the good graces of the people of the
                        county-seat village of Lewisburg, where he had grown up, and of the little
                        cross-roads village of Clifty, where his "shingle" now
                        hung.
                    Small was no ordinary villain. He was a genius. Your oridinary hypocrite
                        talks cant. Small talked nothing. He was the coolest, the steadiest, the
                        most silent, the most promising boy ever born in Lewishurg. He made no
                        pretensions. He set up. "no claims. He uttered no professions. He
                        went right on and lived a life above reproach. Your vulgar hypocrite makes
                        long prayers in prayer-meeting. Small did nothing of the sort. He sat still
                        in prayer-meeting, and listened to the elders as  a modest young man should. Your commonplace hypocrite boasts.
                        Small never alluded to himself, and thus a consummate egotist got credit for
                        modesty. It is but an indifferent trick for a hypocrite to make temperance
                        speeches. Dr. Small did not even belong to a temperance society. But he
                        could never be persuaded to drink even so much as a cup of tea. There was
                        something sublime in the quiet voice with which he would say, "Cold
                        water if you please," to a lady tempting him with smoking coffee on
                        acold morning. There was no exultation, no sense of merit in the act.
                        Everything was done in a modest and matter-of-course way beautiful to
                        behold. And his face was a neutral tint. Neither face nor voice expressed
                        anything. Only a keen reader of character might have asked whether all there
                        was in that eye could live contented with this cool, austere, self-contained
                        life; whether there would not be somewhere a volcanic eruption. But if there
                        was any sea of molten lava beneath the world did not discover it. Wild boys
                        were sick of having Small held up to them as the most immaculate of men.1
                        
                            1
                            The original from which this character was drawn is here described
                                accurately. The author now knows that people are not to be put into
                                books. They are not realistic enough.
                        
                    
                    Ralph had failed to get two schools for which he  had applied, and had attributed both failures to certain shrugs of Dr.
                        Small. And now, when he found Small at the house of Granny Sanders the
                        center of intelligence as well as of ignorance for the neighborhood, he
                        trembled. Not that Small would say anything. He never said anything. He
                        damned people by a silence worse than words.
                    Granny Sanders was not a little flattered by the visit.
                    "Why, doctor, howdy, howdy! Come in, take a cheer. I am glad to see
                        you, I 'lowed you'd come. Old Dr. Flounder used to say he
                        larnt lots o' things of me. But most of the doctors sence hez been
                        kinder stuck up, you know. But I know'd you fer a man of
                        intelligence."
                    Meantime, Small, by his grave silence and attention, had almost smothered the
                        old hag with flatery. "Many's the case I've cured
                        with yarbs and things. Nigh upon twenty year ago they was a man lived over
                        on Wild Cat Run as had a breakin'-out on his side. 'Twas
                        the left side, jes below the waist. Doctor couldn't do
                        nothin'. 'Twas Doctor Peacham. He never would have
                        nothin' to do with 'ole woman's cures.'
                        Well, the man was goin' to die. Everybody seed that. And they come
                        a-drivin' away over here all the way from the Wild Cat. Think of
                        that air! I never was so flustered. 
                        
                            MRS. MEANS
                        
                         But as soon as I laid eyes on that air man, I
                        says, says I, that air man, says I, has got the shingles, says I. I
                        know'd the minute I seed it. And if they'd gone clean
                        around, nothing could a saved him. I says, says I, git me a black cat. So I
                        jist killed a black cat, and let the blood run all over the
                        swellin'. I tell you, doctor, they's nothin' like
                        it. That man was well in a month."
                    "Did you use the blood warm?" asked Small, with a solemnity
                        most edifying.
                    These were almost the only words he had uttered since he entered the cabin.
                    "Laws, yes; I jest let it can right out of the cat's tail
                        onto the brcakin'out. And fer airesipelus, I don't know
                        nothin' so good as the blood of a black hen."
                    "How old?" asked the doctor.
                    "There you showed yer science, doctor! They's no power in a
                        pullet. The older the black hen the better. And you know the cure fer
                        rheumatiz?" And here the old woman got clown a bottle of grease.
                        "That's ile from a black dog. Ef it's rendered
                        right, it'll knock the hind sights off of any rheumatiz you ever
                        see. But it must be rendered in the dark of the moon. Else a black
                        dog's ile a'n't worth no more nor a white
                        one's."
                    And all this time Small was smelling of the uncorked  bottle, taking a little on his finger and feeling of it, and
                        thus feeling his way to the heartdrier than her herbsof the old witch. And
                        then he went round the cabin gravely, lifting each separate bunch of dried
                        yarbs from its nail, smelling of it, and then, by making an
                        interrogation-point of his silent face, he managed to get a lecture from her
                        on each article in her materia madica, with the most
                        marvelous stories illustrative of their virtues. When the Granny had got her
                        fill of his silent flattery, he was ready to carry forward his main purpose.
                    There was something weird about this silent man's ability to turn
                        the conversation as he chose to have it go. Sitting by the Granny's
                        tea-table, nibbling corn-bread while he drank his glass of water, having
                        declined even her sassafras, he ceased to stimulate her medical talk and
                        opened the vein of gossip. Once started, Granny Sanders was sure to allude
                        to the robbery. And once on the robbery the doctor's course was
                        clear.
                    "I 'low somebody not fur away is in this 'ere
                        business!"
                    Not by a word, nor even by a nod, but by some motion of the eyelids, perhaps,
                        Small indicated that he agreed with her.
                    "Who d'ye s'pose 'tis?"
                    
                    But Dr. Small was not in the habit of supposing. He moved his head in a quiet
                        way, just the least perceptible bit, but so that the old creature understood
                        that he could give light if he wanted to.
                    "I dunno anybody that's been 'bout here long as
                        could be suspected."
                    Another motion of the eyelids indicated Small's agreement with this
                        remark.
                    "They a'n't nobody come in here lately
                        'ceppin' the master."
                    Small looked vacantly at the wall.
                    "But I 'low he's alleys bore a tip-top
                        character."
                    The doctor was too busy looking at his corn-bread to answer this remark even
                        by a look.
                    "But I think these oversmart young men'll bear looking
                        arter, I do."
                    Dr. Small raised his eyes and let them shine an assent.
                        That was all.
                    "Shouldn't wonder ef our master was overly fond of
                        gals."
                    Doctor loots down at his plate.
                    "Had plenty of sweethearts afore he walked home with Hanner Thomson
                        t'other night, I'll bet."
                    Did Dr. Small shrug his shoulder? Granny thought she detected a faint motion
                        of the sort, but she could not be sure.
                    "And I think as how that a feller what trifles  with gals' hearts and then runs off ten miles, may be
                        a'n't no better'n he had orter be.
                        That's what I says, says I."
                    To this general remark Dr. Small assented in his invisibleshall I say intangible? way.
                    "I allers think, maybe, that some folks has found it best to leave
                        home and go away. You can't never tell. But when people is
                        a-bein' rubbed its well to lookout. Hey?"
                    "I think so," said Small quietly, and, having taken his hat
                        and bowed a solemn and respectful adieu, he departed.
                    He had not spoken twenty words, but he had satisfied the news monger of Flat
                        Creek that Ralph was a bad character at home and worthy of suspicion of
                        burglary.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                    MISS MARTHA HAWKINS.
                    "IT'S very good for the health to dig in
                        the elements. I was quite emaciated last year at the East, and the doctor
                        told me to dig in the elements. I got me a florial hoe and dug, and
                        it's been most excellent for me."1 Time, the Saturday
                        following the Friday on which Ralph kept Shocky company as far as the
                        "forks" near Granny Sanders's house. Scene, the
                        Squire's garden. Ralph helping that worthy magistrate perform
                        sundry little jobs such as a warm winter day suggests to the farmer. Miss
                        Martha Hawkins, the Squire's niecc, and his house-keeper in his
                        present bereaved condition, leaning over the palingspickets she called
                        themof the garden fence, talking to the master. Miss Hawkins was recently
                        from Massachusetts. How many people there are in the most cultivated
                        communities whose education is partial!
                            1
                            Absurd as this speech se it is a literal transcript of words spoken
                                in the author's presence by a woman who, like Miss Hawkins,
                                was born in Massachusetts.
                        
                    
                    "It's very common for school-master to dig in  the elements at the East," proceeded
                        Miss Martha. Like many other people born in the celestial empires (of which
                        there are threeChina, Virginia, Massachusetts), Miss Martha was not averse
                        to reminding outside barbarians of her good fortune in this regard. It did
                        her good to speak of the East.
                    Now Ralph was amused with Miss Martha. She really had a good deal of
                        intelligence despite her affectation, and conversation with her was both
                        interesting and diverting. It helped him to forget Hannah, and Bud, and the
                        robbery, and all the rest, and she was so delighted to find somebody to make
                        an impression on that she had come out to talk while Ralph was at work. But
                        just at this moment the school-master was not so much interested in her
                        interesting remarks, nor no much amused by her amusing remarks, as he should
                        have been. He saw a man coming down the road riding one horse and leading
                        another, and he recognized the horses at a distance. It most be Bud who was
                        riding Means's bay mare and leading Bud's roan colt. Bud
                        had been to mill, and as the man who owned the horse-mill kept but one old
                        blind horse himself, it was necessary that Bud should take two. It required
                        three horses to run the mill; the old blind one could have ground the grist,
                        but the two others had to overcome the friction of the clumsy machine.
                    
                    But it was not about the horse-mill that Ralph was thinking nor about the two
                        horses. Since that Wednesday evening on which he escorted Hannah home from
                        the spelling-school he had not seen Bud Means. If he had any lingering
                        doubts of the truth of what Mirandy had said, they had been dissipated by
                        the absence of Bud from school.
                    "When I was to Bosting" Miss Martha was to Boston only once in her life, but as her visit to that sacred city
                        was the most important occurrence of her life, she did not hesitate to air
                        her reminiscences of it frequently. "When I was to
                        Boating," she was just saying, when, following the indication of
                        Ralph's eyes, she saw Bud coming up the hill near Squire
                        Hawkins's house. Bud looked red and sulky, and to Ralph's
                        and Miss Martha Hawkins's polite recognitions he returned only a
                        surly nod. They both saw that he was angry. Ralph was able to guess the
                        meaning of his wrath.
                    Toward evening Ralph strolled through the Squire's cornfield toward
                        the woods. The memory of the walk with Hannah was heavy upon the heart of
                        the young master, and there was comfort in the very miserableness of the
                        cornstalks with their disheveled blades hanging like tattered banners and
                        rattling discordantly in the rising wind. Wandering without purpose, Ralph
                        followed the rows of  stalks first one way and
                        then the other in a zigzag line, turning a right angle every minute or two.
                        At last he came out in a woods mostly of beech, and he pleased his
                        melancholy fancy by kicking the dry and silky leaves before him in billows,
                        while the soughing of the wind through the long, vibrant boughs and slender
                        twigs of the beech forest seemed to put the world into the wailing minor key
                        of his own despair.
                    What a fascination there is in a path come upon suddenly without a knowledge
                        of its termination! Here was one running in easy, irregular curves through
                        the wood, now turning gently to the right in order to avoid a stump, now
                        swaying suddenly to the left to gain an easier descent at a steep place, and
                        now turning wantonly to the one side or the other, as if from very caprice
                        in the man who by idle steps unconsciously marked the line of the foot-path
                        at first. Ralph could not resist the impulsewho could?to follow the path and
                        find out its destination, and following it he came presently into a lonesome
                        hollow, where a brook gurgled among the heaps of bare limestone rocks that
                        filled its bed. Following the path still, he came upon a queer little cabin
                        built of round logs, in the midst of a small garden-patch inclosed by a
                        brush fence. The stick chimney, daubed with clay and  topped with a barrel open at both ends, made this a typical
                        cabin.
                    It flashed upon Ralph that this place must be Rocky Hollow, and that this was
                        the house of old John Pearson, the one legged basket maker, and hid
                        rheumatic wifethe house that hospitably sheltered Shocky. Following his
                        impulse, he knocked and was admitted, and was not a little surprised to find
                        Miss Martha Hawkins there before him.
                    "You here, Miss Hawkins?" he said when he had returned
                        Shocky's greeting and shaken hands with the old couple.
                    "Bless you, yes," said the "old lady".
                        "That blessed gyirl" the old lady called her a girl by a
                        sort of figure of speech perhaps that blessed gyirl's the kindest
                        creetur you ever sawcomes here emery day, most, to cheer a body up with
                        somethin' or nuther."
                    Miss Martha blushed, and said "she came because Rocky Hollow looked
                        so much like a place she used to know at the East. Mr. and Mrs. Pearson were
                        the kindest people. They reminded her of people she knew at the East. When
                        she was to Bosting"
                    Here the old basket-maker lifted his head from his work, and said:
                        "Pshaw! that talk about kyindness" (he was a Kentuckian
                        and said kyindness"is  all humbug. I wonder so smart a woman as you don't
                        know better. You come nearder to bein' kyind than anybody I know;
                        but, laws a me! we're all selfish akordin' to my
                        tell."
                    "You wasn't selfish when you set up with my father most
                        every night for two weeks," said "Shocky", as he
                        handed the old man a splint.
                    "Yes, I was, too!" This in a tone that made Ralph tremble.
                        "Your father was a miserable Britisher. I'd fit red-coats,
                        in the war of eighteen-twelve, and lost my leg by one of 'em
                        stickin' his dog-on'd bagonet right through it, that night
                        at Lundy's Lane; but my messmate killed him though, which is a
                        satisfaction to think on. And I didn't like your father
                        'cause he was a Britisher. But ef he'd a died right here
                        in this free country, 'thout nobody to give him a drink of water,
                        blamed ef I wouldn't a been ashamed to set on the platform at a
                        Fourth of July barbecue, and to hold up my wooden leg fer to make the boys
                        cheer! That was the selfishest thing I ever done. We're all selfish
                        akordin' to my tell."
                    "You wasn't selfish when you took me that night, you
                        know," and Shocky's face beamed with gratitude.
                    "Yes, I war, too, you little sass-box! What did I take you fer? Hey?
                        Bekase I didn't like Pete
                    
                    
                        CAPTAIN PEARSON
                    
                    
                    Jones one Bill Jones. They're thieves, dog-on
                        'em!"
                    Ralph shivered a little. The horse with the white forefoot and white nose
                        galloped before his eyes again.
                    "They're a set of thieves. That's what they
                        air."
                    "Please, Mr. Pearson, be careful. You'll get into trouble,
                        you know, by talking that way," said "Miss
                        Hawkins". "You're just like a man that I knew at
                        the East."
                    "Why, do you think an old soldier like me, hobbling on a wooden leg,
                        is afraid of them thieves? Didn't I face the Britishers?
                        Didn't I come home late last Wednesday night? I rather guess I must
                        a took a little too much at Welch's grocery, and laid down in the
                        middle of the street to rest. The boys thought 'twas funny to
                            crate'1 me. I woke up kind o' cold,
                        'bout one in the mornin.' 'Bout  two o'clock I come up
                        Means's hill, and didn't I see Pete Jones, and them others
                        that robbed the Dutchman, and somebody, I dunno who, a-crossin' the
                        blue-grass pastor towards Jones's?"
                        "(Ralph shivered.)" "Don't shake your
                        finger at me, old woman. Tongue is all I've got to fight with now;
                        but I'll. fight them thieves tell the sea goes dry, I will. Shocky,
                        gim me a splint."
                            1
                            When the first edition of this book appeared, the critic who analyzed
                                the dialect in The Nation confessed that he did
                                not know what to "crate" meant. It was a custom in
                                the days of early Indiana barbarism for the youngsters of a village,
                                on spying a sleeping drunkard, to hunt up a "queensware
                                crate"one of the cages of round withes in which crockery
                                was shipped. This as turned upside down over the inebriate, and
                                loaded with logs or any other heavy articles that would make escape
                                difficult when the poor wretch should come to himself. It was a sort
                                of rude punishment for inebriety, and it afforded a frog-killing
                                delight to those who executed justice.
                        
                    
                    "But you wasn't selfish when you tuck me." Shocky
                        stuck to his point most positively.
                    "Yes, I was, you little tote-headed fool! I didn't take you
                        kase I was good, not a bit of it. I hated Bill Jones what keeps the
                        poor-house, and I knowed him and Pete would get you bound to some of their
                        click, and I didn't want no more thieves raised; so when your
                        mother hobbled, with you a-leadin' her, poor blind thing! all the
                        way over here on that winter night, and said, '"Mr.
                        Pearson," you're all the friend I've got, and I
                        want you to save my boy,' why, you see I was selfish as ever I
                        could be in takin' of you. Your mother's cryin'
                        sot me a-cryin' too. We're all selfish in everything,
                        akordin' to my tell. Blamed ef we ha'n't, Miss
                        Hawkins, only sometimes I'd think you was real benev'lent
                        ef I didn't know we war all selfish."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII.
                    THE HARDSHELL, PREACHER.
                    "THEY'S preachin' down to
                        Bethel Meetin'-house to-day," said the
                        "Squire" at breakfast. Twenty years in the West could not
                        cure Squire Hawkins of saying "to" for
                        "at." "I rather guess as how the old man Bosaw
                        will give pertickeler fits to our folks to-day." For Squire
                        Hawkins, having been expelled from the "Hardshell" church
                        of which Mr. Bosaw was pastor, for the grave offense of joining a temperance
                        society, had become a member of the "Reformers," the very
                        respectable people who now call themselves "Disciples,"
                        but whom the profane will persist in calling
                        "Campbellites." They had a church in the village of
                        Clifty, three miles away.
                    I know that explanations are always abominable to story readers, as they are
                        to story writers, but as so many of my readers have never had the
                        inestimable privilege of sitting under the gospel as it is ministered in
                        enlightened neighborhoods like Flat Creek, I find myself under the
                        necessityneed-cessity the Rev. Mr. Bosaw would call itof rising to  explain. Some people think the
                        "Hardshells" a myth, and some sensitive Baptist people at
                        the East resent all allusion to them. But the "Hardshell
                        Baptists," or, as they are otherwise called, the "Whisky
                        Baptists," and the "Forty-gallon Baptists," exist
                        in all the old Western and South-western States. They call themselves
                        "Anti-means Baptists" from their Antinomian tenets. Their
                        confession of faith is a caricature of Calvinism, and is expressed by their
                        preachers about as follows. "Ef you're elected,
                        you'll be saved; of you a'n't, you'll be
                        damned. God'll take keer of his elect. It's a sin to run
                        Sunday-schools, or temp'rinces'cieties, or to send
                        missionaries. You let God's business alone. What is to be will be,
                        and you can't hender it." This writer has attended a
                        Sunday-school, the superintendent of which was solemnly arraigned and
                        expelled from the Hardshell Church for "meddling with
                        God's business" by holding a Sunday-school. Of course the
                        Hardshells are prodigiously illiterate, and often vicious. Some of their
                        preachers are notorious drunkards. They sing their sermons out sometimes for
                        three hours at a stretch.1
                        
                            1
                            Even the Anti-means Baptists have suffered from the dire spirit of
                                the age. They are to-day a very respectable body of people calling
                                themselves "Primitive Baptists." Perhaps the
                                description in the text never applied to the whole denomination, but
                                only to the Hardshells of certain localities. Some of these
                                intensely conservative churches, I have reason to believe, were
                                always composed of reputable people. But what is said above is not
                                in the least exaggerated as a description of many of the in churches
                                Indiana and Illinois. Their opposition to the temperance reformation
                                was both theoretical and practical. A rather able minister of the
                                denomination whom I knew as a boy used to lie in besotted
                                drunkenness by the roadside, I am sorry to confess that he once
                                represented the county in the State legislature. The piece of a
                                sermon given in this chapter was heard near Cairo, Illinois, in the
                                days before the war. Most of the preachers were illiterate farmers.
                                I have heard one of them hold forth two hours at a stretch. But even
                                in that day there were men among the Hardshells whose ability and
                                character commanded respect. This was true, especially in Kentucky,
                                where able men like the two Dudleys held to the Antinomian wing of
                                their denomination. But the Hardshells are perceptibly less hard
                                than they were. You may march at the rear of the column among
                                Hunkers and Hardshells if you will, but you are obliged in march.
                                Those who will not go voluntarily, the time-spirit, walking behind,
                                prods onward with a goad.
                        
                    
                    
                    Ralph found that he was to ride the "clay-bank mare," the
                        only one of the horses that would "carry double," and that
                        consequently he would have to take Miss Hawkins behind him. If it had been
                        Hannah instead, Ralph might not have objected to this "young
                        Lochinvar" mode of riding with a lady on "the
                        croup," but Martha Hawkins was another affair. He had only this
                        consolation; his keeping the company of Miss Hawkins might serve to disarm
                        the resentment of Bud. At all events, he had no choice. What designs the
                        Squire had in this arrangement he could not tell; but the clay-bank mare
                        carried him to meeting on that December morning, with  Martha Hawkins behind. And as Miss Hawkins was not used to
                        this mode of locomotion, she was in a state of delightful fright every time
                        the horse sank to the knees in the soft, yellow Flat Creek clay.
                    "We don't go to church so at the East," she said.
                        "The mud isn't so deep at the East. When I was to
                        Busting" but Ralph never heard what happened when she was to
                        Bosting, for just as she said Bosting the mare put her foot into a deep hole
                        molded by the foot of the Squire's horse, and already full of muddy
                        cater.
                    As the mare's foot went twelve inches down into this track, the
                        muddy water spurted higher than Miss Hawkins's head, and mottled
                        her dress with golden spots of clay. She gave a little shriek, and declared
                        that she had never "seen it so at the East."
                    The journey seemed a little long to Ralph, who found that the subjects upon
                        which he and Miss Hawkins could converse were few; but Miss Martha was
                        determined to keep things going, and once, when the conversation had died
                        out entirely, she made a desperate effort to renew it by remarking, as they
                        met a man on horseback, "That horse switches his tail just as they
                        do at the East. When I was to Busting I saw horses switch their tails just
                        that way."
                    What surprised Ralph was to sec that Flat Creek  went to meeting. Everybody was therethe Meanses, the Joneses, the Bantas,
                        and all the rest. Everybody on Flat Creek seemed to be there, except the old
                        wooden-legged basket-maker. His family was represented by Shocky, who had
                        come, doubtless, to get a glimpse of Hannah, not to hear Mr. Bosaw preach.
                        In fact, few were thinking of the religious service. They went to church as
                        a common resort to hear the news, and to find out what was the current
                        sensation.
                    On this particular morning there seemed to be some unusual excitement. Ralph
                        perceived it as he rode up. An excited crowd, even though it be at a
                        church-door on Sunday morning, can not conceal its agitation. Ralph
                        deposited Miss Hawkins on the stile, and then got down himself, and paid her
                        the closest attention to the door. This attention was for Bud's
                        benefit. But Bud only stood with his hands in his pockets, scowling worse
                        than ever. Ralph did not go in at the door. It was not the flat Creek
                        custom. The men gossiped outside, while the women chatted within. Whatever
                        may have been the cause of the excitement, Ralph could not get at it. When
                        he entered a little knot of people they became embarrassed, the group
                        dissolved, and its component parts joined other companies. What had the
                        current of conversation to  do with him? He
                        overheard Pete Jones saying that the blamed old wooden leg was in it anyhow.
                        He'd been seen goin' home at two in the mornin'.
                        And he could name somebody else of he choosed. But it was best to clean out
                        one at a time. And just then there was a murmur: "Meetin's
                        took up." And the masculine element filled the empty half of the
                        "hewed-log" church.
                    When Ralph saw Hannah looking utterly dejected, his heart smote him, and the
                        great struggle set in again. Had it not been for the thought of the other
                        battle, and the comforting presence of the Helper, I fear Bud's
                        interests would have fared badly. But Ralph, with the spirit of a martyr,
                        resolved to wait until he knew what the result of Bud's suit should
                        be, and whether, indeed, the young Goliath had prior claims, as he evidently
                        thought he had. He turned hopefully to the sermon, determined to pick up any
                        crumbs of comfort that might fall from Mr. Bosaw's meager table.
                    In reporting a single specimen passage of Mr. Bosaw's sermon, I
                        shall not take the liberty which Thucydides and other ancient historians
                        did, of making the sermon and putting it into the hero's mouth, but
                        shall give that which can be vouched for.
                    "You see, my respective hearers," he beganbut  alas! I can never picture to you the rich red
                        nose, the see sawing gestures, the nasal resonance, the sniffle, the
                        melancholy minor key, and all that. "My respective hearers-ah, you
                        see-ah as how ah as my tex'-ah says that the ox-ah knoweth his
                        owner-ah, and-ah the ass-ah his master's crib-ah. A-h-h! Now, my
                        respective hearers-ah, they're a mighty sight of resemblance-ah
                        atwext men-ah and oxen-ah" [Ralph could not help reflecting that
                        there was a mighty sight of resemblance between some men and asses. But the
                        preacher did not see this analogy. It lay too close to him],
                        "bekase-ah, you see, men-ah is mighty like oxen-ah. Fer
                        they's a tremengious defference-ah atwixt defferent oxen-ah, jest
                        as that is atwext defferent men-ah; fer the ox knoweth-ah his owner-ah, and
                        the ass-ah, his master's crib-ah. Now, my respective
                        hearers-ah" [the preacher's voice here grew mellow, and
                        the succeeding sentences were in the most pathetic and lugubrious tones]
                        "you all know-ah that your humble speaker-ah has got-ah jest the
                        best yoke of steers-ah in this township-ah." [Here Betsey Short
                        shook the floor with a suppressed titter.] "They
                        a'n't no sech steers as them air two of mine-ah in this
                        whole kedentry-ah. Them crack oxen over at Clifty-ah
                        ha'n't a patchin' to mine ah. Fer the ox knoweth
                        his owner-ah, and the ass-ah his master's crib-ah.
                    
                    "Now, my respective hearers-ah, they's a right smart sight
                        of defference-ah atwext them air two oxen-ah, jest like they is atwext
                        defferent men-ah. Fer-ah" [here the speaker grew earnest, and sawed
                        the air, from this to the close, in a most frightful way], "fer-ah,
                        you see-ah, when I go out-ah in the morning'-ah to yoke-ah up-ah
                        them air steers-ah, and I says-ah, "Wo, Berry-ah! Wo,
                            Berry-ah! Wo, BERRY-AH', why Berry-ah
                        jest stands stock still-ah and don't hardly breathe-ah while I put
                        on the yoke-ah, and put in the bow-ah, and put in the key-ah, fer, my
                        brethering-ah and sistering-ah, the ox know-eth his owner-all, and the
                        ass-ah his master's crib-ah. Hal-le-lu-ger-ah!
                    "But-ah, my hearers-ah, but-ah when I stand at t'other eend
                        of the yoke-ah, and say, 'Come, Buck-ah! Come,
                            Buck-ah! COME, BUCK-AH! COME,
                        BUCK-AH!' why what do you think-ah? Buck-ah, that ornery ole
                        Buck-ah, 'stid of comin' right along-ah and
                        puttin' his neck under-ah, acts jest like some men-ah what is
                        fools-ah. Buck ah jest kinder sorter stands off-ah, and kinder sorter puts
                        his head down-ah this 'ere way-ah, and kinder looks mad-ah, and
                        says, Boo-oo-OO-OO-ah!"
                    Alas! Hartsook found no spiritual edification there, and he was in no mood to
                        be amused. And so, while the sermon drew on through two dreary  hours, he forgot the preacher in noticing a
                        bright green lizard which, having taken up its winter quarters behind the
                        tin candlestick that hung just back of the preacher's head, had
                        been deceived by the genial warmth coming from the great box-stove, and now
                        ran out two or three feet from his shelter, looking down upon the red nosed
                        preacher in a most confidential and amusing manner. Sometimes he would
                        retreat behind the candlestick, which was not twelve inches from the
                        preacher's head, and then rush out again. At each reappearance
                        Betsey Short would stuff her handkerchief into her mouth and shake in a most
                        distressing way. Shocky wondered what the lizard was winking at the preacher
                        about. And Miss Martha thought that it reminded her of a lizard that she see
                        at the East, the time she was to Bosting, in a jar of alcohol in the Natural
                        History Rooms. The Squire was not disappointed in his anticipation that Mr.
                        Bosaw would attack his denomination with some fury. In fact, the old
                        preacher outdid himself in his violent indignation at "these people
                        that follow Campbell-ah, that thinks-ah that obejience-ah will save
                        'em-ah and that belongs-ah to temp'rince societies-ah and
                        Sunday-schools-ah, and them air things-ah, that's not ortherized in
                        the Bible-ah, but comes of the devil-ah, and takes folks as belongs to
                        'em to hell-ah."
                    
                    As they came out the door "Ralph" rallied enough to remark:
                        "He did attack your people, Squire."
                    "Oh, yes," said the "Squire."
                        "Didn't you see the Sarpent inspirin'
                        him?"
                    But the long, long hours were ended and Ralph got on the clay-bank mare and
                        rode up alongside the stile whence Miss Martha mounted. And as he went away
                        with a heavy heart, he overheard "Pete Jones" call out to
                        some body:
                    "We'll tend to his case a, Christmas." Christmas
                        was two days off.
                    And Miss Martha remarked with much trepidation that poor Pearson would have
                        to leave. She'd always been afraid that would be the end of it. It
                        reminded her of something she heard at the East the time she was down to
                        Bosting.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                    A STRUGGLE FOR THE MASTERY.
                    THE school had closed on Monday evening as usual. The boys
                        had been talking in knots all day. Nothing but the bulldog in the slender,
                        resolute young master had kept down the rising storm. A teacher who has lost
                        moral support at home, can not long govern a school. Ralph had effectually
                        lost his popularity in the district, and the worst of it was that he could
                        not divine from just what quarter the ill wind came, except that he felt
                        sure of Small's agency in it somewhere. Even Hannah had slighted
                        him, when he called at Means's on Monday morning to draw the
                        pittance of pay that was due him.
                    He had expected a petition for a holiday on Christmas day. Such holidays are
                        deducted from the teacher's time, and it is customary for the boys
                        to "turn out" the teacher who refuses to grant them, by
                        barring him out of the school-house on Christmas and New Year's
                        morning. Ralph had intended to grant a holiday if it should be asked, but it
                        was  not asked. Hank Banta was the ringleader
                        in the disaffection, and he had managed to draw the surly Bud, who was
                        present this morning, into it. It is but fair to say that Bud was in favor
                        of making a request before resoting to extreme measures, but he was
                        overruled. He gave it as his solemn opinion that the master was mighty
                        peart, and they would be beat anyhow some way, but he would lick the master
                        fer two cents ef he warn't so slim that he'd fed like he
                        was fighting a baby.
                    And all that day things looked black. Ralph's countenance was cold
                        and hard as stone, and Shocky trembled where he sat. Betsey Short tittered
                        rather more than usual. A riot or a murder would have seemed amusing to her.
                    School was dismissed, and Ralph, instead of returning to the
                        Squire's, set out for the village of Clifty, a few miles away. No
                        one knew what he went for, and some suggested that he had
                        "sloped."
                    But "Bud" said "he warn't that air kind.
                        He was one of them air sort as died in their tracks, was Mr. Hartsook.
                        They'd find him on the ground nex' morning, and he
                        'lowed the master war made of that air sort of stuff as would burn
                        the dog-on'd ole school-house to ashes, or blow it into splinters,
                        but what he'd beat. Howsumdever he'd said lie was
                        a-goin' to help, and help he would; but all the sinno  in Golier wouldn't be no account
                        again the cute they was in the head of the master."
                    But Bud, discouraged as he was with the fear of Ralph's
                        "cute," went like a martyr to the stake and took his place
                        with the rest in the school-house at nine o'clock at night. It may
                        have been Ralph's intention to preoccupy the school-house, for at
                        ten o'clock Hank Banta was set shaking from head to foot at seeing
                        a face that looked like the master's at the window. He waked up Bud
                        and told him about it.
                    "Well, what are you a-tremblin' about, you
                        coward?" growled "Bud." "He
                        won't shoot you; but he'll beat you at this game,
                        I'll bet a hoss, and me, too, and make us both as 'shamed
                        of ourselves as dogs with tin-kittles to their tails. You don't
                        know the master, though he did duck you. But he'll larn you a good
                        lesson this time, and me too, like as not." And Bud soon snored
                        again, but Hank shook with fear every time he looked at the blackness
                        outside the windows. He was sure he heard foot-falls. He would have given
                        anything to have been at home.
                    When morning came, the pupils began to gather early. A few boys who were
                        likely to prove of service in the coming siege were admitted through the
                        window, and then everything was made fast, and a "snack"
                        was eaten.
                    
                    "How do you 'low he'll get in?" said
                        "Hank," trying to hide his fear.
                    "How do I 'low?" said "Bud."
                        "I don't 'low nothin' about it. You
                        might as well ax me where I 'low the nex'
                        shootin' star is a-goin' to drap. Mr. Hartsook's
                        mighty onsartin. But he'll git in, though, and tan your hide fer
                        you, you see ef he don't. Ef he don't
                        blow up the school-house with gunpowder!" This last was thrown in
                        by way of alleviating the fears of the cowardly Hank, for whom Bud had a
                        great contempt.
                    The time for school had almost come. The boys inside were demoralized by
                        waiting. They began to hope that the master had "sloped."
                        They dreaded to see him coming.
                    "I don't believe he'll come," said Hank,
                        with a cold shiver. "It's past school-time."
                    "Yes, he will come, too," said Bud. "And he
                        'lows to come in here mighty quick. I don't know how. But
                        he'll be a-standin' at that air desk when it's
                        nine o'clock. I'll bet a thousand dollars on that. Ef he don't take it into his head to blow us
                        up!" Hank was now white.
                    Some of the parents came along, accidentally of course, and stopped to see
                        the fun, sure that Bud would thrash the master if he tried to break in.
                        Small, on the way to see a patient perhaps, reined  up in front of the door. Still no Ralph. It was just five
                        minutes before nine. A rumor now gained currency that he had been seen going
                        to Clifty the evening before, and that he had not come back, though in fact
                        Ralph had come back, and had slept at Squire Hawkins's.
                    "There's the master," cried "Betsey
                        Short," who stood out in the road shivering and giggling
                        alternately. For Ralph at that moment emerged from the sugar-camp by the
                        school-house, carrying a board.
                    "Ho! ho!" laughed "Hank", "he
                        thinks he'll smoke us out. I guess he'll find us
                        ready." The boys had let the fire burn down, and there was now
                        nothing but hot hickory coals on the hearth.
                    "I tell you he'll come in. He didn't go to Clifty
                        fer nothin'," said "Bud", who sat still
                        on one of the benches which leaned against the door. "I
                        don't know how, but they's lots of ways of killing a cat
                        besides choking' her with butter. He'll come in ef he don't blow us all sky-high!"
                    "Ralph's" voice was now heard, demanding that the
                        door be opened.
                    "Let's open her," said "Hank",
                        turning livid with fear at the firm, confident tone of the master.
                    Bud straightened himself up. "Hank, you're a coward.
                        I've got a mind to kick you. You got me  into this blamed mess, and now you want to crawfish. You jest
                        tech one of these 'ere fastenin's, and I'll lay
                        you out flat of your back afore you can say Jack Robinson."
                    The teacher was climbing to the roof with the board in hand.
                    "That air won't win," laughed "Pete
                        Jones" outside. He saw that there was no smoke. Even Bud began to
                        hope that Ralph would fail for once. The master was now on the ridge-pole of
                        the school-house. He took a paper from his pocket, and deliberately poured
                        the contents down the chimney.
                    Mr. Pete Jones shouted "Gunpowder!" and set off down the
                        road to be out of the way of the explosion. Dr. Small remembered, probably,
                        that his patient might die while he sat here, and started on.
                    But Ralph emptied the paper, and laid the board over the chimney. What a row
                        there was inside! The benches that were braced against the door were thrown
                        down, and Hank Banta rushed out, rubbing his eyes, coughing frantically, and
                        sure that he had been blown up. All the rest followed, Bud bringing up the
                        rear sulkily, but coughing and sneezing for dear life. Such a smell of
                        sulphur as came from that school-house!
                    Betsey had to lean against the fence to giggle.
                    
                    
                        FIRE AND BRIMSTONE
                    
                    
                    As soon as all were out, Ralph threw the board off the chimney, leaped to the
                        ground, entered the school-house, and opened the windows. The school soon
                        followed him, and all was still.
                    "Would he thrash?" This was the important question in Hank
                        Banta's mind. And the rest looked for a battle with Bud.
                    "It is just nine o'clock," said
                        "Ralph," consulting his watch, "and I'm
                        glad to see you all here promptly. I should have given you a holiday if you
                        had asked me like gentlemen yesterday. On the whole, I think I shall give
                        you a holiday, anyhow. The school is dismissed."
                    And Hank felt foolish.
                    And Bud secretly resolved to thrash Hank or the master, he didn't
                        care which.
                    And Mirandy looked the love she could not utter.
                    And Betsey giggled.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                    A CRISIS WITH BUD.
                    RALPH sat still at his desk. The school had gone. All at once he became
                        conscious that Shocky sat yet in his accustomed place upon the hard,
                        backless bench.
                    "Why, Shocky, haven't you gone yet?"
                    "NosirI was waitin' to see if you warnt't
                        a-goin', tooI"
                    "Well?"
                    "I thought it would make me feel as if God warn't quite so
                        fur away to talk to you. It did the other day."
                    The master rose and put his hand on shocky's head. Was it the
                        brotherhood in affliction that made Shocky's words choke him so?
                        Or. was it the weird thoughts that he expressed' Or, was it the
                        recollection that Shocky was Hannah's brother? "Hannah so
                        far, far away from him now! At any rate, Shocky, looking up for the smile on
                        which he fed, saw the relaxing of the master's face, that had been
                        as hard as stone, and felt just one hot tear on his hand.
                    
                    "P'r'aps God's forgot you, too,"
                        said "Shocky" in a sort of half soliloquy.
                        "Better get away from Flat Creek. You see God forgets everybody
                        down here. 'Cause 'most everybody forgets God,
                        'cept Mr. Bosaw, and I 'low God don't no ways
                        keer to be remembered by sich as him. Leastways I wouldn't if I was
                        God, you know. I wonder what becomes of folks when God forgets
                        'em?" And Shocky, seeing that the master had resumed his
                        seat and was looking absently into the fire, moved slowly out the door.
                    "Shocky!" called the master.
                    The little poet came back and stood before him.
                    "Shocky, you mustn't think God has forgotten you. God
                        brings things out right at last." But Ralph's own faith
                        was weak, and his words sounded hollow and hypocritical to himself. Would
                        God indeed bring things out right?
                    He sat musing a good while, trying to convince himself of the truth of what
                        he had just been saying to Shockythat God would indeed bring things out
                        right at last. Would it all come out right if Bud married Hannah? Would it
                        all come out right if he were driven from Flat Creek with a dark suspicion
                        upon his character? Did God concern himself with these things? Was there any
                        God? It was the same old struggle between Doubt and
                    
                    Faith. And when Ralph looked up, Shocky had departed
                    In the next hour Ralph fought the old battle of Armageddon. I shall not
                        describe it. You will fight it in your own way. No two alike. The important
                        thing is the End. If you come out as he did, with the doubt gone and the
                        trust in God victorious, it matters little just what shape the battle may
                        take. Since Jacob became Israel there have never been two such struggles
                        alike, save in that they all end either in victory or in defeat.
                    It was after twelve o'clock on that Christmas day when Ralph put his
                        head out the door of the school-house and called out: "Bud,
                        I'd like to see you."
                    Bud did not care to see the master, for he had inly resolved to
                        "thrash him" and have done with him. But he
                        couldn't back out, certainly not in sight of the others who were
                        passing along the road with him.
                    "I don't want the rest of you," said
                        "Ralph" in a decided way, as he saw that Hank and one or
                        two others were resolved to come also
                    "Thought maybe you'd want somebody to see far
                        play," said Hank as he went off sheepishly.
                    "If I did, you would be the last one I should ask," said
                        Ralph. "There's no unfair play in Bud, and there is in
                        you."And he shut the door.
                    
                    "Now, looky here, Mr. Ralph Hartsook," said
                        "Bud." "You don't come no games over me
                        with your saft sodder and all that. I've made up my mind.
                        You've got to promise to leave these 'ere diggins, or
                        I've got to thrash you."
                    "You'll have to thrash me, then," said Ralph,
                        turning a little pale, but remembering the bulldog. "But
                        you'll tell me what it's all about, won't
                        you?"
                    "You know well enough. Folks says you know more bout the robbery at
                        the Dutchman's than you orter. But I don't believe them.
                        Fer them as says it is liars and thieves theirselves.
                        'Ta'n't fer none of that. And I shan't
                        tell you what it is fer. So now, if you won't
                        travel, why, take off your coat and git ready fer a thrashing."
                    The master took off his coat and showed his slender arms. Bud laid his off,
                        and showed the physique of a prize-fighter.
                    "You a'n't a-goin to fight me?" said Bud.
                    "Not unless you make me."
                    "Why I could chaw you all up."
                    "I know that."
                    "Well, you're the grittiest feller I ever did see, and ef
                        you'd jest kep off of my ground I wouldn't a touched you.
                        But I a'n't a-goin' to be cut out by no feller a
                        livin' 'thout thrashin' him in an inch of his
                        life. You sec I wanted to git out of this Flat
                    
                    Crick way. We're a low lived set here in Flat Crick, And I says to
                        myself, I'll try to be somethin' more nor Pete Jones, and
                        dad, and these other triflin', good fer-nothin' ones
                        'bout here. And when you come I says. There's one
                        as'll help me. And what do you do with yor book larnin'
                        and town manners but start right out to git away the gal that I'd
                        picked out, when I'd picked her out kase I thought, not
                        bein' Flat Crick born herself, she might help a feller to do
                        better! Now I won't let nobody cut me out without givin'
                        'em the best thrashin' it's in these
                        'ere arms to give."
                    "But I haven't tried to cut you out."
                    "You can't fool me."
                    "Bud, listen to me and then thrash me if you will. I went with that
                        girl once. When I found you had some claims, I gave her up. Not because I
                        was afraid of you, for I would rather have taken the worst thrashing you can
                        give me than give her up. But I haven't spoken to her since the
                        night of the first spelling-school."
                    "You lie!" said Bud, doubling his fists.
                    Ralph grew red.
                    "You was a-waitin' on her last Sunday right afore my eyes,
                        and a tryin' to ketch my attention too. So when you're
                        ready say so."
                    "Bud there is some misunderstanding." Hartsook  spoke slowly and felt bewildered. "I
                        tell you that I did not speak to Hannah last Sunday, and you know I
                        didn't."
                    "Hanner!" Bud's eyes grew large
                        "Hanner!" Here he gasped for breath, and looked around.
                        "Hanner!" He couldn't get any further than the
                        name at first. "Why, plague take it, who said Hanner?"
                    "Mirandy said you were courting Hannah," said
                        "Ralph," feeling round in a vague way to get his ideas
                        together.
                    "Mirandy! Thunder! You believed Mirandy! Well! Now, looky here, Mr.
                        Hartsook, ef you was to say that my sister lied, I'd lick you till
                        yer hide wouldn't hold shucks. But I say, a-twix
                        you and me and the gate-post, don't you never believe nothing that
                        Mirandy Means says. Her and marm has set theirselves like fools to git you.
                        Hanner! Well, she's a mighty nice gal, but you're welcome
                        to her. I never tuck no shine that air way. But I was out
                        of school last Thursday and Friday a-shucking corn to take to mill
                        a-Saturday. And when I come past the Squire's and seed you talking
                        to a gal as is a gal, you know"here Bud hesitated and looked
                        foolish "I felt hoppin' mad."
                    But put on his coat.
                    
                    Ralph put on his coat.
                    Then they shook hands and Bud went out. Ralph sat looking into the fire.
                        There was no conscientious difficulty now in the way of his claiming Hannah.
                        The dry fore-stick lying on the rude stone andirons burst into a blaze. The
                        smoldering hope in the heart of Ralph Hartsook did the same. He could have
                        Hannah if he could win her. But there came slowly back the recollection of
                        his lost standing in Flat Creek. There was circumstantial evidence against
                        him. It was evident that Hannah believed something of this. What other
                        stories Small might have put in circulation he did not know. Would Small try
                        to win Hannah's love to throw it away again, as he had done with
                        others? At least he would not spare any pains to turn the heart of the bound
                        girl against Ralph.
                    The bright flame on the forestick, which Ralph had been watching, flickered
                        and burned low.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                    THE CHURCH OF THE BEST LICKS.
                    JUST as the flame on the forestick, which Ralph had watched so intensely,
                        flickered and burned low, and just as Ralph with a heavy but not quite
                        hopeless heart rose to leave, the latch lifted and Bud re-entered.
                    "I wanted to say something," he stammered, "but
                        you know it's hard to say it. I ha'n't no
                        book-larn-in to speak of, and some things is hard to say when a man
                        ha'n't got book-words to say 'em with. And
                        they's some things a man can't hardly ever say anyhow to
                        anybody."
                    Here Bud stopped. But Ralph spoke in such a matter-of-course way in reply
                        that he felt encouraged to go on.
                    "You gin up Hanner kase you thought she belonged to me.
                        That's more'n I'd a done by a long shot. Now,
                        arter I left here jest now, I says to myself, a man what can gin up his gal
                        on account of sech a feeling fer the rights of a Flat Cricker like me, why,
                        dog-on it, says I, sech a man is the man  as
                        can help me do better. I don't know whether you're a
                        Hardshell or a Saftshell, or a Methodist, or a Campbellite, or a New Light,
                        or a United Brother, or a Millerite, or what-not. But I says, the man what
                        can do the clean thing by a ugly feller like me, and stick to it, when I was
                        jest ready to eat him up, is a kind of a man to tie to."
                    Here Bud slopped in fright at his own volubility, for he had run his words
                        off like a piece learned by heart, as though afraid that if he stopped he
                        would not have courage to go on.
                    Ralph said that he did not belong to any church, and he was afraid he
                        couldn' do Bud much good. But his tone was full of sympathy, and,
                        what is better than sympathy, a yearning for sympathy.
                    "You see," said "Bud," "I wanted
                        to git out of this low-lived, Flat Crick way of livin'.
                        We're a hard set down here, Mr. Hartsook. And I'm
                        gittin' to be one of the hardest of 'em. But I never could
                        git no good out of Bosaw with his whisky and meanness. And I went to the
                        Mount Tabor church concert. I heard a man discussin' baptism, and
                        regeneration, and so on. That didn't seem no cure for me. I went to
                        a revival over at Clifty. Well, 'twarn't no use. First
                        night they was a man that spoke about Jesus Christ in sech a way that I
                        wanted to foller him everywhere. But I didn't feel fit. Next  night I come back with my mind made up that
                        I'd try Jesus Christ, and see of he'd have me. But laws!
                        they was a big man that night that preached hell. Not that I don't
                        believe thcy's a hell. They's plenty not a thousand miles
                        away as deserves it, and I don't know as I'm too good for
                        it myself. But he pitched it at us, and stuck; it in our faces in sech a way
                        that I got mad. And I says, Well, of God sends me to hell he can't
                        make me holler 'nough nohow. You see my dander was up. And when my
                        dander's up, I wouldn't gin up fer the devil his self. The
                        preacher was so insultin' with his way of doin' it. He
                        seemed to be kind of glad that we was to be damned, and he preached
                        somethin' like some folks swears. It didn't sound a bit
                        like the Christ the little man preached about the night afore. So what does
                        me and a lot of fellers do but slip out and cut off the big
                        preacher's stirrups, and hang 'em on to the rider of the
                        fence, and then set his hoss loose! And from that day, sometimes I did, and
                        sometimes I didn't, want to be better. And e to-day it seemed to me
                        that you must know some-thin' as would help me."
                    Nothing is worse than a religious experience kept ready to be exposed to the
                        gaze of everybody, whether the time is appropriate or not. But never was a
                        religious experience more appropriate than 
                        the account which Ralph gave to Bud of his Struggle in the Dark. The
                        confession of his weakness and wicked selfishness was a great comfort to
                        Bud.
                    "Do you think that Jesus Christ wouldwould well, do you think
                        he'd help a poor, unlarnt flat Cricker like me"
                    "I think he was a sort of a Flat Creeker him-self," said
                        "Ralph," slowly-and very earnestly.
                    "You don't say?" said "Bud,"
                        almost getting off his seat.
                    Why, you see the town he lived in was a rough place. It was called Nazareth,
                        which meant 'Bush-town.'"
                    "You don't say?"
                    "And he was called a Nazarene, which was about the same as
                        ' backwoodsman."
                    And Ralph read the different passages which he had studied at Sunday-school,
                        illustrating the condescension of Jesus, the stories of the publicans, the
                        harlots, the poor, who came to him. And he reach about Nathanael, who lived
                        only six miles away, saying, 'Can any good thing come out of
                        Nazareth?
                    "Jos' what Clifty folks says about Flat Crick,"
                        broke in Bud.
                    "Do you think I could begin without being baptined?" he
                        added presently.
                    
                    "Why not? Let's begin now to do the best we can, by his
                        help."
                    "You mean, then, that I'm to begin now to put in my best
                        licks for Jesus Christ, and that he'll help me?"
                    This shocked Ralph's veneration a little. But it was the sincere
                        utterance of an earnest soul. It may not have been an orthodox start, but it
                        was the one start for Bud. And there be those who have repeated with the
                        finest sthetic appreciation the old English liturgies who have never known
                        religious aspiration so sincere as that of this ignorant young Hercules,
                        whose best confession was that he meant hereafter "to put in his
                        best licks for Jesus Christ." And there be those who can define
                        repentance and faith to the turning of a hair who never made so genuine a
                        start for the kingdom of Heaven as Bud Means did.
                    Ralph said yes, that he thought that was just it. At least, he guessed if
                        there was something more, the man that was putting in his best licks would
                        be sure to find it out.
                    "Do you thing he'd help a feller? Seems to me it would be
                        number one to have God help you. Not to help you fight other folks, but to
                        help you when it comes to fighting the devil inside. But you see I
                        don't belong to no church"
                    
                    "Well, let's you and me have one right off. Two people that
                        help one another to serve God make a church."
                    I jam afraid this ecclesiastical theory, will not be considueal-orthodox. It
                        was Ralph's, and I write it down at the risk of bringing him into
                        condemnation.
                    But other people before the days of Bud and Ralph have discussed church
                        organization when they should have been doing Christian work. For both of
                        them had forgotten the danger that hung over the old basket-maker, until
                        Shocky burst into the school-house, weeping. Indeed, the poor, nervous
                        little frame was ready to go into convulsions.
                    "Miss Hawkins"
                    Bud started at mention of the name.
                    "Miss Hawkins has just been over to say that a crowd is going to tar
                        and feather Mr. Pearson to-night. And" here Shocky wept again.
                        "And he won't run, but he's took up the old
                        flintlock says he'll die in his tracks."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                    THE CHURCH MILITANT.
                    BUD was doubly enlisted on the side of John Pearson, the
                        basket-maker. In the first place, he knew that this persecution of the
                        unpopular old man was only a blind to save somebody else; that they were
                        thieves who cried, "Step thief!" And he felt consequently
                        that this was a chance to put his newly-formed resolutions into practice.
                        The Old Testament religious life, which consists in fighting the
                        Lord's enemies, suited Bud's temper and education. It
                        might lead to something better. It was the best possible to him, now. But I
                        am afraid I shall have to acknowledge that there was a second motive that
                        moved Bud to this champion-ship. The good heart of Martha Hawkins having
                        espoused the cause of the basket-maker, the heart of Bud Means could not
                        help feeling warmly on the same side. Blessed is that man in whose life the
                        driving of duty and the drawing of love impel the same way! But why speak of
                        the driving of duty? For already Bud was learning the better lesson of
                        serving God for the love of God.
                    
                    The old basket-maker was the most unpopular man in Flat Creek district. He
                        had two great vices. He would go to Clifty and have a
                        "spree" once in three months. And he would tell the truth
                        in a most unscrupulous manner. A man given to plain speaking was quite as
                        objectionable in Flat Creek as he would have been in France under the
                        Empire, the Commune, or the Republic, and almost as objectionable as he
                        would be in any refined community in America. People who live in glass
                        houses have a horror of people who throw stones. And the old basket maker,
                        having no friends, was a good scapegoat. In driving him off, Pete Jones
                        would get rid of a dangerous neighbor and divert attention from himself. The
                        immediate crime of the basket-maker was that he had happened to one too
                        much.
                    Mr. Hartsook, said Bud, when they got out into the road,
                        "you'd better go straight home to the Squire's.
                        Bekase of this lightnin' strikes a second time it'll
                        strike awful closte to you. You hadn't better be seen with us.
                        Which way did you come, Shocky?"
                    "Why, I tried to come down the holler, but I met Jones right by the
                        big road, and he sweared at me and said he'd kill me ef I
                        didn't go back and stay. And so I went back to the house and then
                        slipped out through the graveyard. You see I was  bound to come ef I got skinned. For Mr. Pearson's
                        stuck to me and I mean to stick to him, you see."
                    Bud led Shocky through the graveyard. But when they reached the forest path
                        from the grave-yard he thought that perhaps it was not best to
                        "show his hand," as he. expressed it, too soon.
                    "Now, Shocky," he said, "do you run ahead and tell
                        the ole man that I want to see him right off down by the Spring-in-rock.
                        I'll keep closte behind you, and ef anybody offers to trouble you,
                        do you let off a yell and I'll be thar in no time."
                    When Ralph left the school-house he felt mean. There were Bud and Shock gone
                        on an errand of mercy, and he, the truant member of the Church of the Best
                        Licks, was not with them. The more he thought of it the more he seemed to he
                        a coward, and the more he despised himself; so, yielding as usual to the
                        first brave impulse, he leaped nimbly over the fence and started briskly
                        through the forest in a direction intersecting the path on which were Bud
                        and Shocky. He came in sight just in time to see the first conflict of the
                        Church in the Wilderness with her foes.
                    For Shocky's little feet went more swiftly on their eager errand
                        than Bud had anticipated. He got farther out of Bud's reach than
                        the latter in-tended he should, and he did not discover Pete
                    
                    Jones until Pete, with his hog-drover's whip, was right upon him.
                    Shocky tried to halloo for Bud, but he was like one in a nightmare. The yell
                        died into a whisper which could not have been heard ten feet.
                    I shall not repeat Mr. Jones's words. They were frightfully profane.
                        But he did not stop at words. He swept his whip round and gave little Shocky
                        one terrible cut. Then the voice was released, and the piercing cry of pain
                        brought Bud down the path flying.
                    "You good-for-nothing scoundrel," growled Bud,
                        "you're a coward and a thief to be a-beatin' a
                        little creetur like him!" and with that Bud walked up on Jones, who
                        prudently changed position in such a way as to get the upper side of the
                        hill.
                    "Well, I'll gin you the upper side, but come on,"
                        cried Bud, "ef you a'n't afeared to fight
                        somebody besides a poor little sickly baby or a crippled soldier. Come
                        on!"
                    Pete was no insignificant antagonist. He had been a great fighter, and his
                        well-seasoned arms were like iron. He had not the splendid set of Bud, but
                        he had more skill and experience in the rude tournament of fists to which
                        the backwoods is so much given. Now, being out of sight of witnesses and
                        sure that he could lie about the fight afterward, 
                        
                            BUD MEANS COMES TO THE RECUSE OF SHOCKY
                        
                         he did not scruple to take advantages which
                        would have disgraced him forever if he had taken them in a public fight on
                        election day or at a muster. He took the uphill side, and he clubbed his
                        whip-stalk, striking Bud with all his force with the heavy end, which,
                        coward-like, he had loaded with lead. Bud threw up his strong left arm and
                        parried the blow, which, however, was so fierce that it fractured one of the
                        bones of the arm. Throwing away his whip Pete rushed upon Bud furiously,
                        intending to, overpower him, but Bud slipped quickly to one side and let
                        Jones pass down the hill, and as Jones came up again Means dealt him one
                        crushing blow that sent him full length upon the ground. Nothing but the
                        leaves saved him from a most terrible fall. Jones sprang to his feet more
                        angry than ever at being whipped by one whom he regarded as a boy, and drew
                        a long dirk-knife. But he was blind with rags, and Bud dodged the knife, and
                        this time gave Pete a blow on the nose which marred the homeliness of that
                        feature and doubled the fellow up against a tree ten feet away.
                    Ralph came in sight in time to see the beginning of the fight, and he arrived
                        on the ground just as Pete Jones went down under the well-dealt blow from
                        the only remaining fist of Bud Means.
                    While Ralph examined Bud's disabled left arm
                    
                    Pete picked himself up slowly, and, muttering that he felt
                        "consid'able shuck up like," crawled away like a
                        whipped puppy. To everyone whom he met, Pete, whose intellect seemed to have
                        weakened in sympathy with his frame, remarked feebly that he was
                        consid'able shuck up like, and vouchsafed no other explanation.
                        Even to his wife he only said that he felt party consid'able shuck
                        up like, and that the boys would have to get on to-night without him. There
                        are some scoundrels whose very malignity is shaken out of them for the time
                        being by a thorough drubbing.
                    "I'm afraid you're going to have trouble with your
                        arm, Bud," said "Ralph tenderly."
                    "Never mind; I put in my best licks fer Him, that
                        air time, Mr. Hartsook." Ralph shivered a little at thought of
                        this, but if it was right to knock Jones down at all, why might not Bud do
                        it "heartily as unto the Lord?"
                    Gideon did not feel any more honest pleasure in chastising the Midianites
                        than did Bud in sending Pete Jones away purty consid'able shuck up
                        like.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                    A COUNCIL OF WAR.
                    SHOCKY, whose feet had flown as soon as he saw the final
                        fall of Pete Jones, told the whole story to the wondering and admiring ears
                        of Plies Miss Hawkins, who unhappily could not remember anything at the East
                        just like it; to the frightened ears of the rheumatic old lady who felt sure
                        her ole man's talk and stubbornness would be the ruin of him, and
                        to the indignant cars of the old soldier who was hobbling up and down,
                        sentinel-wise, in front of his cabin, standing guard over himself.
                    "No, I won't leave," he said to Ralph and
                        "Bud." "You see I jest won't. What would
                        Gin'ral Winfield Scott say ef he knew that one of them as fit at
                        Lundy's Lane backed out, retreated, run fer fear of a passel of
                        thieves? No, sir; me and the old flintlock will live and die together.
                        I'll put a thunderin' charge of buckshot into the first
                        one of them scoundrels as comes up the holler. It'll be another
                        Lundy's Lane. And you, Mr. Hartsook, may send Scott word that ole
                        Pearson, as fit at Lundy's Lane 
                        under him, died a-fightin' thieves on Rocky Branch, in Hoopole
                        Kyounty, State of Injeanny."
                    And the old man hobbled faster and faster, taxing his wooden leg to the very
                        utmost, as if his victory depended on the vehemence with which he walked his
                        beat.
                    Mrs. Pearson sat wringing her hands and looking appealingly at Martha
                        Hawkins, who stood in the door, in despair, looking appealingly at Bud. Bud
                        was stupefied by the old man's stubbornness and his own pain, and
                        in his turn appealed mutely to the master, in whose resource he had
                        boundless confidence. Ralph, seeing that all depended on him, was taxing his
                        wits to think of some way to get round Pearson's stubbornness.
                        Shocky hung to the old man's coat and pulled away at him with many
                        entreating words, but the venerable, bare headed sentinel strode up and down
                        furiously, with his flintlock on his shoulder and his basket-knife in his
                        belt.
                    Just at this point somebody could be seen indistinctly through the bushes
                        coming up the hollow. "Halt!" cried the old hero.
                        "Who goes there?" "It's me, Mr. Pearson.
                        Don't shoot me, please." It was the voice of Hannah
                        Thomson. Hearing that the whole neighborhood was rising against the
                        benefactor of Shocky and of her family, she had  slipped away from the eyes of her mistress, and run with breathless haste
                        to give warning in the cabin on Rocky Branch. Seeing Ralph, she blushed, and
                        went into the cabin.
                    "Well," said "Ralph," "the enemy
                        is not coming yet. Let us hold a council of war."
                    This thought came to Ralph like an inspiration. It pleased the old
                        man's whim, and he sat down on the door-step.
                    "Now, I suppose," said Ralph, "that General
                        Winfield Scott always looked into things a little before he went into a
                        fight. Didn't he?"
                    "To be sure," assented the old man.
                    "Well," said Ralph. "What is the condition of the
                        enemy? I suppose the whole neighborhood's against us."
                    "To be said," said the "old
                        man." The rest were silent, but all felt the statement to be about
                        true.
                    "Next," said Ralph, "I suppose General Winfield
                        Scoot would always inquire into the condition of his own troops. Now let us
                        see. Captain Pearson has Bud, who is the right wing, badly crippled by
                        having his arm broken in the first battle." (Miss Hawkins looked
                        pale.)
                    "To be sure," said the old man.
                    "And I am the left wing, pretty good at giving advice, but very
                        slender in a fight"
                    
                    "To be sure," said the old man.
                    "And Shocky and Miss Martha and Hannah good aids, but nothing in a
                        battle."
                    "To be sure," said the
                        "basket-maker," a little doubtfully.
                    Now let's look at the arms and accouterments, I think you call them.
                        Well, this old musket has been loaded
                    "This ten year," said the "old lady."
                    "And the lock is on rusty that you could not cock it when you wanted
                        to take aim at Hannah."
                    The old man looked foolish, and muttered "To be
                        sure."
                    "And there isn't another round of ammunition in the
                        house."
                    The old man was silent.
                    "Now let us look at the incumbrances. Here's the old lady
                        and Shocky. If you fight, the enemy will be pleased. It will give them a
                        chance to kill you. And then the old lady will die and they will do with
                        Shocky as they please."
                    "To be sure," said the old man reflectively.
                    "Now," said Ralph, "General Winfield Scott, under
                        such circumstances, would retreat in good order. Then, when he could muster
                        his forces rightly, he would drive the enemy from his ground."
                    "To be sure," said the old man. "What ort I to
                        do?"
                    
                    "Have you any friends?"
                    "Well, yes; ther's my brother over in Jackson Kyounty. I
                        mout go there."
                    "Well," said Bud, "do you just go down to
                        Spring-in-rock and stay there. Them folks won't be here tell
                        midnight. I'll come fer you at nine with my roan colt, and
                        I'lI set you down over on the big road on Buckeye Run. Then you can
                        git on the mail-wagon that passes there about five o'clock in the
                        mornin', and go over to Jackson County and keep shady till we want
                        you to face the enemy and to swear agin some folks. And then we'll
                        send for you."
                    "To be sure," said the old man in a broken voice.
                        "I reckon General Winfield Scott wouldn't disapprove of
                        such a maneuver as that than."
                    Miss Martha beamed on Bud to his evident delight, for he carried his painful
                        arm part of the way home with her. Ralph noticed that Hannah looked at him with a look full of contending emotions. He read
                        admiration, gratitude, and doubt in the expression of her face, as she
                        turned toward home.
                    "Well, good-by, ole woman," said
                        "Pearson," as he tools up his little handkerchief full of
                        things and started for his hiding-place; "good-by. I
                        didn't never think I'd desart you, and ef the old
                        flintlock hadn't a been rusty I'd a staid and died right
                        here  by the ole cabin. But I reckon
                        'ta'n't best to be brash."'1 And
                        Shocley looked after him, as he hobbled away over the stones, more than ever
                        convinced that God had forgotten all about things on Flat Creek. He gravely
                        expressed his opinion to the master the next day.
                            1
                            The elaborate etymological treatment of this word in its various
                                forms in our best dictionary is a fine illustration of the fact that
                                something more than scholarship is needed for penetrating the
                                mysteries of current folk-speech. Brashoften bresh in the sense of refuse boughs of trees, is
                                only another from of brush; the two are used as
                                one word by the people. Brash in the sense of
                                brittle has no conscious connection with the noun in popular usage,
                                but it is accounted by the people the same word as brash in the sense of rash or impetuous. The suggestion in
                                the Century Dictionary that the words spelled brash are of modern formation violates the soundest canon of
                                antiquarian research, which is that a word phrase or custom widely
                                diffused among plain rustic people is of necessity of ancient
                                origin. Now brash, the adjective, exists in both
                                senses in two or three of the most widely separated dialects of the
                                United States, and hence must have come from England. Indeed, it
                                appears in Wright's Dictionary of Provincial English in
                                precisely the sense it has in the text.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER. XVIII.
                    ODDS AND ENDS.
                    THE Spring-in-rock, or, as it was sometimes, by a curious
                        perversion, called, the "rock-in-spring," was a spring
                        running out of a cave-like fissure in a high limestone cliff. Here the old
                        man sheltered himself on that dreary Christmas evening, until Bud brought
                        his roan colt to the top of the cliff above, and he and Ralph helped the old
                        man up the cliff and into the saddle. Ralph went back to bed, but Bud, who
                        was only too eager to put in his best licks, walled by the side of old John
                        Pearson the six miles over to Buckeye Run, and at last, after eleven
                        o'clock, he deposited him in at hollow sycamore by the road, there
                        to wait the coming of the mail-wagon that would carry him into Jackson
                        County
                    "Good by," said the basket-maker, as Bud mounted the colt
                        to return. "Ef I'm wanted jest send me word, and
                        I'll make a forrard movement any time. I don't like this
                        'ere thing of running off in the night-time. But I reckon General
                        Winfield Scott would a ordered a retreat of he'd a been in  my shoes. I'm lots obleeged to you.
                        Akordin' to my tell, we're all of no selfish in
                        everything; but I'll be dog-on'd ef I don't
                        believe you and one or two more is exceptions."
                    Whether it was that the fact that Pete Jones had got cnnsid'able
                        shuck up demoralized his followers, or whether it was that the old
                        man's flight was suspected, the mob did not turn out in very great
                        force, and the tarring was postponed indefinitely, for by the time they came
                        together it became known somehow that the man with a wooden leg had outrun
                        them all. But the escape of one devoted victim did not mollify the feelings
                        of the people toward the next one.
                    By the time Bud returned his arm was very painful, and the next day he went
                        under Dr. Small's treatment to reduce the fracture. Whatever
                        suspicions Bud might have of Pete Jones, he was not afflicted with
                        Ralph's dread of the silent young doctor. And if there was anything
                        Small admired it was physical strength and courage. Small wanted Bud on his
                        side, and least of all diet he want him to be Ralph's champion. So
                        that the silent, cool, and skillful doctor went to work to make an
                        impression on Bud Means.
                    Other influences were at work upon him also. Mrs. Means volleyed and
                        thundered in her usual  style about his
                        "takin' up with a one-legged thief, and runnin'
                        after that master that was a mighty suspicious kind of a customer,
                        akordin' to her tell. She'd allers said so. Ef
                        she'd a been consulted he wouldn't a been hired. He
                        warn't fit company fer nobody."
                    And old Jack Means 'lowed Bud must want to have their barns burnt like some other folkses had been. Fer his part, he
                        had sense enough to know they was some people as it wouldn't do to
                        set a body's self agin. And as fer him, he didn't butt his
                        brains out agin a buckeye-tree. Not when he was sober. And so they managed,
                        during Bud's confinement to the house, to keep him well supplied
                        with all the ordinary discomforts of life.
                    But one visit from Martha Hawkins, ten words of kindly inquiry from her, and
                        the remark that his broken arm reminded her of something she had seen at the
                        East and something somebody said the time she was to Bosting, were enough to
                        repay the champion a thousand fold for all that he suffered. Indeed, that
                        visit, and the recollection of Ralph's saying that Jesus Christ was
                        a sort of a Flat Creeker himself, were manna in the wilderness to Bud.
                    Poor Shocky was sick. The excitement had been too much for him, and though
                        his fever was very slight it was enough to produce just a little delirium.
                             Either Ralph or Miss Martha was generally
                        at the cabin.
                    "They're coming," said "Shocky"
                        to Ralph, "they're coming. Pete Jones is a-going to bind
                        me out for a hundred years. I wish Hanner would hold me so's he
                        couldn't. God's forgot all about us here in Flat Creek,
                        and there's nobody to help it."
                    And he shivered at every sudden sound. He was never free from this delirious
                        fright except when the master held him tight in his arms. He staggered
                        around the floor, the very shadow of Shocky, and was so terrified by the
                        approach of darkness that Ralph staid in the cabin on Wednesday night and
                        Miss Hawkins staid on Thursday night. On Friday, Bud sent a note to Ralph,
                        asking him to come and see him.
                    "You see, Mr. Hartsook, I ha'n't forgot what we
                        said about puttin' in oubest licks for Jesus Christ. I've
                        been a trying to read some about him while I set here. And I read where he
                        said something about doing fer the least of his brethren being all the same
                        like as if it was done fer Jesus Christ hisself. Now there's
                        Shocky. I reckon, p'r'aps, ef anybody is a little brother
                        of Jesus Christ, it is that Shocky. Pete Jones and his brother Bill is
                        detarmined to have him back there to-morry. Bekase, you see, Pete's
                        one of the County Commissioners,  and
                        to-morry's the day that they bind out. He wants to bind out that
                        boy jes' to spite ole Pearson and you and me. You see, the ole
                        woman's been helped by the neighbors, and he'll claim
                        Shocky to be a pauper, and they a'n't no human soul here
                        as dares to do a thing contrary to Pete. Couldn't
                        you git him over to Lewisburg? I'll lend you my roan
                        colt."
                    Ralph thought a minute. He dared not take Shocky to the uncle's
                        where he found his only home. But there was Miss Nancy Sawyer, the old maid
                        who was everybody's blessing. He could ask her to keep him. And, at
                        any rate, he would sang Shocky somehow.
                    As he went out in the dusk, he met Hannah in the lane.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX.
                    FACE To FACE.
                    IN the lane, in the dark, under the shadow of the barn, Ralph met Hannah
                        carrying her bucket of mill: (they have no Pails in Indiana).1 He
                        could sec only the white foam on the milk, and Hannah's white face.
                        Perhaps it was well that he could not sec how white Hannah's face
                        was at that moment when a sudden trembling made her set down the heavy
                        bucket. At first neither spoke. The recollection of all the joy of that
                        wall; together in the night came upon than both. And a great sense of loss
                        made the night seem supernaturally dark to Ralph. Nor was it any lighter in
                        the hopeless heart of the bound girl. The presence of Ralph did not now, as
                        before, make the darkness of her life light.
                            1
                            The total absence of the word pailnot only from the
                                dialect but even from cultivated speech in the Southern and Border
                                States until very recently, is a face I leave to be explained on
                                further investigation. The word is an old one and a o one, but I
                                fancy that its use in England could not have been generally diffused
                                in the seventeenth century. So a Hoosier or a Kentuckian never pared an, but peeledit. Much
                                light might be throw on the origin and history of our dialects by
                                investigating their deficiencies.
                        
                    
                    "Hannah" said "Ralph"presently, and
                        stopped.  For he could not finish the
                        sentence. With a rush there came upon him a consciousness of the suspicions
                        that filled Hannah's mind. And with it there came a feeling of
                        guilt. He saw himself from her stand-point, and felt a remorse almost as
                        keen as it could have been had he been a criminal. And this sudden and
                        morbid sense of his guilt as it appeared to Hannah paralyzed him. But when
                        Hannah lifted her bucket with her hand, and the world with her heavy heart,
                        and essayed to pass him, Ralph rallied and said:
                    "You don't believe all these lies that
                        are told about me."
                    "I don't believe anything, Mr. Hartsook; that is, I
                        don't want to believe anything against you. And I wouldn't
                        mind anything they say if it wasn't for two things"here
                        she stammered and looked down.
                    "If it wasn't for what?" said
                        "Ralph"with a spice of indignant denial in his voice.
                    Hannah hesitated, but Ralph pressed the question with eagerness.
                    "I saw you cross that blue-grass pasture the nightthe night that you
                        walked home with me." She would have said the night of the robbery,
                        but her heart smote her, and she adopted the more kindly form of the
                        sentence.
                    
                    Ralph would have explained, but how?
                    "I did cross the pasture," he began,
                        "but"
                    Just here it occurred to Ralph that there was no reason for his night
                        excursion across the pasture. Hannah again took up her bucket, but he said:
                    "Tell me what else you have against tne."
                    "I haven't anything against you. Only I am poor and
                        friendless, and you oughtn't to make my life any heavier. They say
                        that you have paid attention to a great many girls. I don't know
                        why you should want to trifle with me."
                    Ralph answered her this time. He spoke low. He spoke as though he were
                        speaking to God. "If any man says that I ever trifled with any
                        woman, he lies. I have never loved but one, and you know who that is. And
                        God knows."
                    "I don't know what to say, Mr. Hartsook."
                        Hannah's voice was broken. These solemn words of love were like a
                        river in the desert, and she was like a wanderer dying of thirst.
                        "I don't know, Mr. Hartsook. If I was alone, it
                        wouldn't matter. But I've got my blind mother and my poor
                        Shocly to look after. And I don't want to make mistakes. And the
                        world is so full of lies I don't know what to believe. Somehow I
                        can't help believing what you say. You seem to speak no true.
                        But"
                    "But what?" said "Ralph."
                    
                    "But you know how I saw you just as kind to Martha Hawkins on Sunday
                        asas"
                    "Hannet!" It was the melodious voice of the angry Mrs.
                        Means, and Hannah lifted her pail and disappeared.
                    Standing in the shadow of his own despair, Ralph felt how dark a night could
                        be when it had on promise of morning
                    And Dr. Small, who had been stabling his horse just inside the barn, came out
                        and moved quietly into the house just as though he had not listened intently
                        to every word of the conversation.
                    As Ralph walked away he tried to comfort himself by calling to his aid the
                        bulldog in his character. But somehow it did not do him any good. For what
                        is a bulldog but a stoic philosopher? Stoicism has its value, but Ralph had
                        come to a place where stoicism was of no account. The memory of the Helper,
                        of his sorrow, his brave and victorious endurance, came when stoicism
                        failed. Happiness might go out of life, but in the light of
                        Christ's life happiness seemed but a small element anyhow. The love
                        of woman might be denied him, but there still fined what was infinitely more
                        precious and holy, the love of God. There still remained the possibility of
                        heroic living. Working, suffering, and enduring still remained. And he who
                        can work  for God and endure for God, surely
                        has yet the best of life left. And, like the knights who could find the Holy
                        Grail only in losing themselves, Hartsook, in throwing his happiness out of
                        the count, found the purest happiness, a sense of the victory of the soul
                        over the tribulations of life. The man who knows this victory scarcely needs
                        the encouragement of the hope of future happiness. There is a real heaven in
                        bravely lifting the load of one's own sorrow and work.
                    And it was a good thing for Ralph that the danger hanging over Shocky made
                        immediate action
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX.
                    GOD REMEMBERS SHOCKY.
                    AT four o'clock the next morning, in the midst of a driving snow,
                        Ralph went timidly up the lane toward the homely castle of the Meanses. He
                        went timidly, for he was afraid of Bull. But he found Bud waiting for him,
                        with the roan colt bridled and saddled. The roan colt was really a large
                        three-year-old, full of the finest sort of animal life, and having, as Bud
                        declared, "a mighty sight of hoss sense fer his age." He
                        seemed to understand at once that there was something extraordinary on hand
                        when he was brought out of his comfortable quarters at four in the morning
                        in the midst of a snow-storm. Bud was sure that the roan colt felt his
                        responsibility.
                    In the days that followed, Ralph often had occasion to remember this
                        interview with Bud, who had risked much in bringing his fractured arm out
                        into the cold, damp air. Jonathan never slave to David more earnestly than
                        did Bud this December morning to Ralph.
                    
                    "You see, Mr. Hartsook," said "Bud,"
                        "I wish I was well myself. It's hard to set still. But
                        it's a-doing me a heap of good. I'm like a boy at school.
                        And I'm a findin' out that doing one's best licks
                        fer others ain't all they is of it, though it's a good
                        part. I feel like as if I must git Him, you know, to do lots for me.
                        They's always some sums too hard fer a feller, and he has to an the
                        master to do 'em, you know. But see, the roan's a-stomping
                        round. He wants to be off. Do you know I think that hoss knows
                        something's up? I think the puts in his best licks fer me a good
                        deal better than I do fer Him."
                    Ralph pressed Bud's right hand. Bud rubbed his face against the
                        colt's nose and said: "Put in your best licks, old
                        fellow." And the colt whinnied. How a horse must want to speak! For
                        Bud was right. Men are gods to horses, and they serve their deities with a
                        faithfulness that shames us.
                    Then Ralph sprang into the saddle, and the roan, as if wishing to show Bud
                        his willingness, broke into a swinging gallop, and was soon lost to the
                        sight of his master in the darkness and the snow. When Bud could no more
                        hear the sound of the roan's footsteps he returned to the house, to
                        lie awake picturing to himself the journey of Ralph with Shocky and the roan
                        colt. It was a great comfort to Bud that the roan, which was almost a part
                        of  himself, represented him in this ride. And
                        he knew the roan well enough to feel sure that he would do credit to his
                        master. "lie'll put in his best licks," Bud
                        whispered to himself many a time before day-break.
                    The ground was but little frozen, and the snow made the roads more slippery
                        than ever. But the rough-shod roan handled his feet dexterously and with a
                        playful and somewhat self-righteous air, as though he said:
                        "Didn't I do it handsomely that time?" Down
                        slippery hills, through deep mudholes covered with a slender film of ice he
                        trod with perfect assurance. And then up over the rough stones of Rocky
                        Hollow, where there was no road at all, he picked his way through the
                        darkness and snow. Ralph could not tell where he was at last, but gave the
                        reins to the roan, who did his duty bravely, and not without in little
                        flourish, to show that he had yet plenty of spare power.
                    A feeble candle-ray, making the dense snow-fall visible, marked for Ralph the
                        site of the basket-maker's cabin. Miss Martha had been admitted to
                        the secret, and had joined in the conspiracy heartily, without being able to
                        recall anything of the kind having occurred at the East, and not remembering
                        having seen or heard of anything of the sort the time she was to Busting.
                        She had Shocky  all ready, having used some of
                        her own capes and shawls to make him warm.
                    Miss Martha came out to meet Ralph when she heard the feet of the roan before
                        the door.
                    "O Mr. Hartsook! is that you? What a storm s This is jest the way it
                        snows at the Fast. Shocky's all ready. He didn't know a
                        thing about it tell I waked him this, morning. Ever since that he's
                        been saying that God hasn't forgot, after all. It's made
                        me cry more'n once." And Shock kissed Mrs. Pearson, and
                        told her that when he got away from Flat Creek he'd tell God all
                        about it, and God would bring Mr. Pearson Lack again. And then Martha
                        Hawkins lifted the frail little form, bundled in shawls, in her arms, and
                        brought him out into the storm; and before she handed him up he embraced
                        her, and said: "O Miss Hawkins! God ha'n't forgot
                        me, after all. Tell Hanner that He ha'n't forgot.
                        I'm going to ask him to git her away from Means's and
                        mother out of the poor-house. I'll him just as soon as I get to
                        Lewisburg."
                    Ralph lifted the trembling form into his arms, and the little fellow only
                        looked up in the face of the master and said: "You see, Mr.
                        Hartsook, I thought God had forgot. But he
                        ha'n't."
                    And the words of the little boy comforted the master also. God had not
                        forgotten him, either!
                    
                    From the moment that Ralph took Shocky into his arms, the conduct of the roan
                        colt underwent an entire revolution. Before that he had gone over a bail
                        place with a rush, as though he were ambitious of distinguishing himself by
                        his brilliant execution. Now he trod none the less surely, but he trod
                        tenderly. The neck was no longer arched. He set himself to his work as
                        steadily as though he were twenty years old. For miles he traveled on in a
                        long, swinging walk, putting his feet down carefully and firmly. And Ralph
                        found the spirit of the colt entering into himself. He cut the snowstorm
                        with his face, and felt a sense of triumph over all his difficulties. The
                        bulldog's jaws had been his teacher, and now the steady, strong,
                        and conscientious legs of the roan inspired him.
                    Shocky had not spoken. He lay listening to the pattering music of the
                        horse's feet, doubtless training the footsteps of the roan colt
                        into an anthem of praise to the God who had not forgot. But as the dawn came
                        on, making the snow whiter, he raised himself and said half-aloud, as he
                        watched the flakes chasing one another in whirling eddies, that the snow
                        seemed to be having a good time of it. Then he leaned down again on the
                        master's bosom, full of a still joy, and only roused himself from
                        his happy reverie to ask what that big, ugly-looking house was,
                    
                    
                    "See, Mr. Hartsook, how big it is, and how little and ugly the
                        windows is! And the boards is peeling off all over it, and the hogs is right
                        in the front yard. It don't look just like a house. It looks
                        dreadful. What is it?"
                    Ralph had dreaded this question. He did not answer it, but asked Shocky to
                        change his position a little, and then he quickened the pace of the horse.
                        But Shocky was a poet, and a poet understands silence more quickly than he
                        dots speech. The little fellow shivered as the truth came to him.
                    "Is that the poor-house?" he said, catching his breath.
                        "Is my mother in that place? Won't you
                        take me in there, no as I can just kiss her once? 'Cause site
                        can't sec much, you know. And one kiss from me will make her feel
                        so good. And I'll tell her that God ha'r't
                        forgot." He had raised up and caught hold of Ralph's coat.
                    Ralph had great difficulty in quieting him. He told him that if he went in
                        there Bill Jones might claim that he was a runaway and belonged there. And
                        poor Shocky only shivered and said he was cold. A minute later, Ralph found
                        that he was shaking with a chill, and a horrible dread came over him. What
                        if Shocky should die? It was only a minute's work to get down, take
                        the warm horse-blanket from under the saddle, and wrap it  about the boy, then to strip off his own
                        overcoat and add that to it. It was now daylight, and finding, after he had
                        mounted, that Shocky continued to shiver, he put the roan to his best speed
                        for the rest of the way, trotting up and down the slippery hills, and
                        galloping away on the level ground. How bravely the roan laid himself to his
                        work, making the fence-corners fly past in a long procession! But poor
                        little Shocky was too cold to notice them, and Ralph shuddered lest Shocky
                        should never be warm again, and spoke to the roan, and the roan stretched
                        out his head, and dropped one ear back to hear the first word of command,
                        and stretched the other forward to listen for danger, and then flew with a
                        splendid speed down the road, past the patches of blackberry briars, past
                        the elderberry bushes, past the familiar red-haw tree in the fence-corner,
                        over the bridge without regard to the threat of a five-dollar fine, and at
                        last up the long lane into the village, where the smoke from the chimneys
                        was caught and whirled round with the snow.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI.
                    MISS NANCY
                    IN a little old cottage in Lewisburg on one of the streets which was never
                        traveled except by a solitary cow seeking pasture or a countryman bringing
                        wood to some one of the half-dozen families living in it, and which in
                        summer was decked with a profusion of the yellow and white blossoms of the
                        dog-fennelin this unfrequented street, so generously and unnecessarily
                        broad, lived Miss Nancy Sawyer and her younger sister Semantha. Miss Nancy
                        was a providence, one of those old maids that are benedictions to the whole
                        town; one of those in whom the mother love, wanting the natural objects on
                        which to spend itself, over-flows all bounds and lavishes itself on every
                        needy thin,, and grows richer and mare abundant with the spending, a
                        fountain of inexhaustible blessing. There is no nobler life possible to any
                        one than to an unmarried woman. The more shame that some choose a selfish
                        one, and thus turn to gall all the affection with which they are endowed.
                        Miss
                    
                    Nancy Sawyer had been Ralph's Sunday-school teacher, and it was
                        precious little, so far as information went, that he learned from her; for
                        she never could conceive of Jerusalem as a place in any essential regard
                        very different from Lewisburg, where she had spent her life. But Ralph
                        learned from her what most Sunday-school teachers fail to teach, the great
                        lesson of Christianity, by the side of which all antiquities and geographies
                        and chronologies and exegetics and other niceties are as nothing.
                    And now he turned the head of the roan toward the cottage of Miss Nancy
                        Sawyer as naturally as the roan would have gone to his own stall in the
                        stable at home. The snow had gradually ceased to fall, and was eddying round
                        the house, when Ralph dismounted from his foaming horse, and, carrying the
                        still form of Shocky as reverently as though it had been something heavenly,
                        knocked at Miss Nancy Sawyer's door.
                    With natural feminine instinct that lady started back when she sate Hartsook,
                        for she had just built a fire in the stove, and she now stood at the door
                        with unwashed face and uncombed hair.
                    "Why, Ralph Hartsook, where did you drop down fromand what have you
                        got?"
                    "I came from Flat Creek this morning, and I  brought you a little angel who has got out of heaven, and
                        needs some of your motherly care."
                    Shocky was brought in. The chill shook him now by fits only, for a fever had
                        spotted his cheeks already.
                    "Who are you?" said "Miss Nancy," as she
                        unwrapped him.
                    "I'm Shocky, a little boy as God forgot, and then thought
                        of again."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII.
                    PANCAKES.
                    HALF an hour later, Ralph, having seen Miss Nancy
                        Sawyer's machinery of warm baths and simple remedies safely in
                        operation, and having seen the roan colt comfortably stabled, and rewarded
                        for his faithfulness by a bountiful supply of the best hay and the promise
                        of oats when he was coolhalf an hour later Ralph was doing the most ample,
                        satisfactory, and amazing justice to his Aunt Matilda's hot
                        buckwheat-cakes and warm coffee. And after his life in Flat Creek, Aunt
                        Matilda's house did look like paradise. How white the table-cloth,
                        how bright the coffee-pot, how clean the wood-work, how glistening the brass
                        door-knobs, how spotless everything that came under the sovereign sway of
                        Mrs. Matilda White! For in every Indiana village as large as Lewisburg,
                        there are generally a half-dozen women who are admitted to be the best
                        housekeepers. All others are only imitators. And the strife is between these
                        for the pre eminence. It is at least safe to say that no other in Lewisburg
                        stood so high as an enemy to  dirt, and as a
                        "rat, roach, and mouse exterminator," as did Mrs. Matilda
                        White, the wife of Ralph's maternal uncle, Robert White, Esq., a
                        lawyer in successful practice. Of course no member of Mrs. White's
                        family ever stayed at home longer than was necessary. Her husband found his
                        officewhich he kept in as bad a state as possible in order to maintain an
                        equilibrium in his lifemuch more comfortable than the stiffly clean house at
                        home. From the time that Ralph had come to live as a chore-boy at his
                        uncle's, he had ever crossed the threshold of Aunt
                        Matilda's temple of cleanliness with a horrible sense of awe. And
                        Walter Johnson, her son by a former marriage, hadpoor, weal willed
                        fellow!been driven into bad company and had habits by the wretchedness of
                        extreme civilization. And yet he showed the hereditary trait, for all the
                        genius which Mrs. White consecrated to the glorious work of making her house
                        too neat to be habitable, her soon Walter gave to tying exquisite knots in
                        his colored cravats and combing his oiled locks so as to loot like a dandy
                        barber. And she had no other children. The kind Providence that watches over
                        the destiny of children takes care that very few of them are lodged in these
                        terribly clean houses.
                    But Walter was not at the table, and Ralph had 
                        so much anxiety lest his absence should be significant of evil, that he did
                        not venture to inquire after him as he sat there between Mr. and Mrs. White
                        disposing of Aunt Matilda's cakes with an appetite only justified
                        by his long morning's ride and the excellence of the brown cakes,
                        the golden honey, and the coffee, enriched, as Aunt Matilda's
                        always was, with the most generous cream. Aunt Matilda was so absorbed in
                        telling of the doings of the Dorcas Society that she entirely forgot to be
                        surprised at the early hour of Ralph's arrival. When she had
                        described the number of the garments finished to be sent to the Five Points
                        Mission, or the Home for the Friendless, or the South Sea Islands, I forget
                        which, Ralph thought he saw his chance, while Aunt Matilda was in a
                        benevolent mood, to broach a plan he had been revolving for some time. But
                        when he looked at Aunt Matilda's immaculatehorribly
                        immaculatehouse-keeping, his heart failed him, and he would have said
                        nothing had she not inadvertently opened the door herself.
                    "Mow did you get here so early, Ralph?" and Aunt
                        Matilda's face was shadowed with a coming rebuke.
                    "By early rising," said "Ralph." But,
                        seeing the gathering frown on his aunt's brow, he hastened to  tell the story of Shocky as well as he could.
                        Mrs. White did not give way to any impulse toward sympathy until she learned
                        that Shocky was safely housed with Miss Nancy Sawyer.
                    "Yes, Sister Sawyer has no family cares," she said by way
                        of smoothing her slightly ruffled coin. placency, "she has no
                        family cares, and she can do those things. Sometimes I think she lets people
                        impose on her and keep her away from the means of grace, and I spoke to our
                        new preacher about it the last time he was here, and asked him to speak to
                        Sister Sawyer about staying away from the ordinances to wait on everybody,
                        but he is a queer man, and be only said that he supposed Sister Sawyer
                        neglected the inferior ordinances that she might attend to higher ones. But
                        I don't see any sense in a minister of the gospel calling
                        prayer-meeting a lower ordinance than feeding catnip-tea to Mrs.
                        Brown's last baby. But hasn't this little boy, Shocking,
                        or what do you call him?got any mother?"
                    "Yes" said "Ralph," "and that
                        was just what I was going to say." And he proceeded to tell how
                        anxious Shocky was to see his half-blind mother, and actually ventured to
                        wind up his remarks by suggesting that Shocky's mother be invited
                        to stay over Sunday in Aunt Matilda's house.
                    
                    "Bless my stars!" said that astounded saint,
                        "fetch a pauper here? What crazy notions you have got! Fetch her
                        here out of the poor-house? Why, she wouldn't be fit to sleep in
                        my" here Aunt Matilda holed. The bare thought of having a pauper in
                        her billowy beds, whose snowy whiteness was frightful to any ordinary
                        mortal, the bare thought of the contagion of the poor-house taking
                        possession of one of her beds, smothered her. "And then you know
                        sore eyes are very catching."
                    Ralph boiled a little. "Aunt Matilda, do you think Dorcas was afraid
                        of sore eyes?"
                    It was a center shot, and the lawyer-uncle, lawyerlike, enjoyed a good hit.
                        And he enjoyed a good hit at his wife hest of all, for he never ventured on
                        one himself. But Aunt Matilda felt that a direct reply was impossible. She
                        was not a lawyer but a woman, and so dodged the question by making a
                        counter-charge.
                    "It seems to Inc, Ralph, that you have picked up some very low
                        associates. And you go around at night, I am told. You get over here by
                        daylight, and I hear that you have made common cause with a lame soldier who
                        acts as a spy for thieves, and that your running about of night is likely to
                        get you into trouble."
                    
                    Ralph was hit this time. "I suppose," he said,
                        "that you've been listening to some of Henry
                        Small's lies."
                    "Why, Ralph, Low you talk! The worst sign of all is that you abuse
                        such a young man as Dr. Small, the most exemplary Christian young man in the
                        county. And he is a great friend of yours, for when he was here last week he
                        did not say a word against you, but locked so sorry when your being in
                        trouble was mentioned. Didn't he, Mr. White?"
                    Mr. White, as in duty hound, said yes, but he said yes in a cool, lawyerlike
                        way, which showed that he did not take quite so much stock in Dr. Small as
                        his wife did. This was a comfort to Ralph, who sat picturing to himself the
                        silent flattery which Dr. Small's eyes paid to his Aunt Matilda,
                        and the quiet expression of pain that would flit across his face when
                        Ralph's name was mentioned. And never until that moment had I
                        Hartsook understood how masterful Small's artifices were. He had
                        managed to elevate himself in Airs. White's estimation and to
                        destroy Ralph at the same time, and had managed to do both by a contraction
                        of the eyebrows!
                    But the silence was growing painful and Ralph thought to break it and turn
                        the current of talk from himself by asking after Mrs. White's son.
                    
                    "Where is Walter?"
                    "Oh! Walt is doing tech. He went down to Clifty three weeks ago to
                        study medicine with Henry Small. He seems to fond of the doctor, and the
                        doctor is such an excellent man, you know, and I have strong hopes that
                        Wallie will be led to sec the error of his ways by his association with
                        Henry. I suppose he would have gone to so, you out for the unfavorable
                        reports that he heard I hope, Ralph, you too will male the friendship of Dr,
                        Small. And for the sake of our poor, dead mother" here Aunt Matilda
                        endeavored to show some emotion" for the sake of your poor, dead
                        mother
                    But Ralph heard no more. The buckwheat cakes had lost their flavor. He
                        remembered that the colt had not yet had his oats, and so, in the very midst
                        of Aunt Matilda's affecting allusion to his mother, like a stiff
                        necked reprobate that he was, Ralph Hartsook rose abruptly from the table,
                        put on his hat, and went out toward the stable,
                    "I declare," said "Mrs. White,"
                        descending suddenly from her high moral stand-point, "I declare
                        that boy has stepped right on the threshold of the backs door," and
                        she stuffed her white handkerchief into her pocket, and took down the
                        floor-cloth to wipe off the imperceptible blemish left by Ralph's
                        bootheels.  And Mr. White followed his nephew
                        to the stable to request that he would be a little careful what he did about
                        anybody in the poor-house, as any trouble with the Jones's might
                        defeat Mr. White's nomination to the judgeship of the Court of
                        Common Pleas.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII.
                    A CHARITABLE INSTITUTION.
                    WHEN Ralph got back to Miss Nancy Sawyer's, Shocky was sitting up in
                        bed talking to Miss Nancy and Miss Semantha. His cheeks were a little
                        flushed with fever and the excitement of telling his story; theirs were wet
                        with tears. "Ralph," whispered Miss Nancy, as she drew him
                        into the kitchen, "I want you to get a buggy or a sleigh, and go
                        right over to the poor-house and fetch that boy's mother over here.
                        It'll do me mole good than any sermon 1 ever heard to see that boy
                        in his mother's arms tomorrow. we can keep the old lady over
                        Sunday."
                    Ralph was delighted, so delighted that he came near kissing good Miss Nancy
                        Sawyer, whose plain face was glorified by her generosity.
                    But he did not go to the poorhouse immediately. He waited until he saw Bill
                        Jones, the Superintendent of the Poor-House, and Pete Jones, the County
                        Commissioner, who was still somewhat shuck up, ride up to the court-house.
                        Then he drove out of the village, and presently hitched his horse to the
                        poor-house fence, and took a survey of the outside.
                    
                    Forty hog nearly tootle for slaughter, wallowed in a pen in front of the
                        forlorn and dilapidated house; for though the commissioners allowed a claim
                        for repairs at every meeting, the repairs were never made, and it would not
                        do to scrutinize Mr. Jones's bills too closely, unless you gave up
                        all hope of renomination to office. One curious effect of political
                        aspirations in Hoopole Crunty, was to shut the eyes that they could not see,
                        to close the ears that they, could not hear, and to destroy the sense of
                        smell. But Ralph, not being a politician, smelled the hog-pen without end
                        the stench within, and saw everywhere the transparent fraud, and heard the
                        echo of Jones's cruelty.
                    A weak-eyed girl admitted hint, and as he did not wish to make his business
                        known at once, he affected a sort of idle interest in the place, and asked
                        to be allowed to look round. The weak eyed girl watched him. He found that
                        all the women with children, twenty persons in all, were obliged to sleep in
                        one room, which, owing to the hill-slope, was partly under ground, and which
                        had but half a window for light, and no ventilation, except the chance draft
                        from the door. Jones had declared that the women with children must stay
                        there "he warn't goin' to have brats
                        a-runnin' over the whole house." Here were vicious women
                        and good women, with  their children, crowded
                        like chickens in a coop for market. And there were, as usual in such places,
                        helpless, idiotic women with illegitimate children. Of course this room was
                        the scene of perpetual quarreling and occasional fighting.
                    In the quarters devoted to the insane, people slightly demented and raving
                        maniacs were in the same rooms, while there were also those utter wrecks
                        which sat in heaps on the floor, mumbling and muttering unintelligible
                        words, the whole current of their thoughts hopelessly muddled, turning
                        around upon itself in eddies never ending.
                    "That air woman," said the weak-eyed girl, "used
                        to holler a heap when she was brought in here. But Pap knows how: to subjue
                        'em. He slapped her in the mouth every time she hollered. She
                        don't make no furss now, but jist sets down that way all clay, and
                        keeps a-whisperin'."
                    Ralph understood it. When she came in she was the victim of mania; but she
                        had been beaten into hopeless idiocy. Indeed this state of incurable
                        imbecility seemed the end toward which all traveled. Shut in these bare
                        rooms, with no treatment, no exercise, no variety', and meager
                        food, cases of slight derangement soon grew into chronic lunacy.
                    One young woman, called Phil a sweet-faced person, apparently a
                        farmer's wife, came up to
                    
                    Ralph and looked at him kindly, playing with the buttons on his coat in a
                        childlike simplicity. Her blue-drilling dress was sewed all over with
                        patches of white, representing ornamental buttons. The womanly instinct
                        toward adornment had in her taken this childish turn.
                    "Don't you think they ought to let me go home?"
                        she said with a sweetness and a wistful, longing, home-sick look, that
                        touched Ralph to the heart. He looked at her, and then at the muttering
                        crones, and he could see no hope of any better fate for her. She followed
                        him round the barn-like rooms, re-turning every now and then to her
                        question, "Don't you think I might go home now?"
                    The weak-eyed girl had been called away for a moment, and Ralph stood looking
                        into a cell, where there was a man with a gay red plume in his hat and a
                        strip of red flannel about his waist. e strutted up and down like a
                        drill-sergeant.
                    "I am General Andrew Jackson," he began. "People
                        don't believe it, but I am. I had my head shot off at Bueny Visty,
                        and the new one that gross-ad on isn't nigh so good as the old one;
                        it's titer on one side.1 That's why they take
                        advantage  of me to shot me up. But I know
                        some things. My head is tater on one side, but it's all right on
                        t'other. And when I know a thing in the left side of my head, I
                        know it. Lean down here. Let me tell you something out of the left side. Not
                        out of the later side, mind ye. I wouldn't a told you if he
                        hadn't locked me up fer nothing. Bill Jones is a thief! Ile sells
                        the bodies of the dead paupers-, and then sells the empty coffins back to
                        the county agin. But that a'n't all"
                            1
                            Some time after this book appeared Dr Brown-Squard announced his
                                theory of the dual brain. A writer in an English magazine called
                                attention to the fact that the discovery had been anticipated by an
                                imaginative writer, and cited the passage in the text proving that
                                the author of "The Hoosier School-Master" had
                                outrun Dr. Brown-Squard in perceiving the duality of the brain. It
                                is a matter for surprise that an author, even
                                "imaginative" one, should have made so great
                                discovery without suspecting its meaning, until it was explained by
                                some one else.
                        
                    
                    Just then the weak-eyed girl came back, and, as Ralph moved away, General
                        Jacks,' called out: "That a'n't all.
                        I'll tell the rest another time. And that a'n't
                        out of the tater side, you can depend on that. That's out of the
                        left side. Sound as a nut on that side!"
                    But Ralph began to wonder where he should find Hannah's mother.
                    "Don't go in there," cried the weak-eyed girl, as
                        Ralph was opening a door. "Ole Mowley's in there, and
                        she'll cuss you."
                    "Oh! well, if that's all, her curses won't
                        hurt,"  said Hartsook, pushing open
                        the door. But the volley of blasphemy and vile language that he received
                        made him stagger. The old hag paced the floor, abusing everybody that came
                        in her way. And by the window, in the same room, feeling the light that
                        struggled through the dusty glass upon her face, sat a sorrowful,
                        intelligent Englishwoman. Ralph noticed at once that she was English, and in
                        a few moments he discovered that her sight was defective. Could it be that
                        Hannah's mother was the room-mate of this loathsome creature, whose
                        profanity and obscenity did not intermit for a moment?
                    Happily the weak-eyed girl had not dared to brave the curses of Mowley. Ralph
                        stepped forward to the woman by the window, and greeted her.
                    "Is this Mrs. Thomson?"
                    "That is my name, sir," she said, turning her face toward
                        Ralph, who could not but remark the contrast between the thorough refinement
                        of her manner and her coarse, scant, unshaped pauper-frock of blue drilling.
                    "I saw your daughter yesterday."
                    "Did you see my boy?"
                    There was a tremulousness in her voice and an agitation in her manner which
                        disclosed the emotion  she strove in vain to
                        conceal. For only the day before Bill Jones had informed her that Shocky
                        would be bound out on Saturday, and that she would find that goin'
                        agin him warn't a payin' business, so much as some others
                        he mout mention.
                    Ralph told her about Shocky's safety. I shall not write down the
                        conversation here. Critics would say that it was an overwrought scene. As if
                        all the world were as cold as they! All I can tell is that this refined
                        woman had all she could do, to control herself in her eagcrnes, to get out
                        of her prison-house away from the insults of Jones, away from the sights and
                        sounds and smells of the place, and, above all, her eagerness to fly to the
                        little shocky-head from she had been banished for two years. It seemed to
                        lour that she could gladly die now, if she could die with that flaxen head
                        upon her bosom.
                    And so, in spite of the opposition of Bill Jones's son, who
                        threatened her with every sort of evil if she left, Ralph wrapped Mrs.
                        Thomson's blue drilling in Nancy Sawyer's shawl, and bore
                        the feeble woman off to Lewisburg. And as they drove away, a sad, childlike
                        voice cried from the gratings of the upper window, "Good-by!
                        good-by!" Ralph turned and save that it was Phil, for  whom there was no deliverance.1 And
                        all the way back Ralph pronounced mental maledictions on the Dorcas Society,
                        not for sending garments to the Five Points or the South Sea Islands,
                        whichever it was, but for being so blind to the sorrow and poverty within
                        its reach. He did not know, for he had not read the reports of the Boards of
                        State Charities, that nearly all alms-houses are very much like this, and
                        that the State of New York is not better in this regard than Indiana. And he
                        did not know that it is true in almost all other counties, as it was in his
                        own, that "Christian"people do not think enough of Christ
                        to look for him in these lazarhouses.
                            1
                            The reader may be interested to know that "Phil"
                                was drawn from the life, as was old Mowley and in part
                                "General Jackson"also. Between 1867 and 1870, I
                                visited many jails and Poor-houses with philantropic purpose,
                                publising the results of my examination in some cases in The
                                chilcago Tribune. Some of the abuses pointed out were reformevd,
                                others linger till this day, I believe.
                        
                    
                    And while Ralph denounced the Dorcas Society, the eager, hungry heart of the
                        mother ran, flew toward the little white-headed boy.
                    No, I can not do it; I can not tell you about that meeting. I am sure that
                        Miss Nancy Sawyer's tea tasted exceedingly good to the pauper, who
                        had known nothing but cold water for years, and that the bread and butter
                        were delicious to a palate that  had eaten
                        poor-house soup for dinner, and coarse poor-house bread and vile molasses
                        for supper, and that without change for three years. But I can not tell you
                        how it seemed that evening to Miss Nancy Sawyer, as the poor English lady
                        sat in speechless ecstacy, rocking in the old splint-bottomed rocking-chair
                        in the fire light, while she pressed to her bosom with all the might of her
                        enfeebled arms, the form of the little Shocky, who half-sobbed and
                        half-sang, over and over again, "God ha'n't
                        forgot us, mother; God ha'n't forgot us."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV.
                    THE GOOD SAMARITAN.
                    THE Methodist church to which Mrs. Matilda White and Miss
                        Nancy Sawyer belonged was the leading one in Lewisburg, as it was in most
                        county-seat villages in Indiana. If I may be permitted to express my candid
                        and charitable opinion of the difference between the two women, I shall have
                        to use the old Quaker locution, and say that Miss Sawyer was a Methodist and
                        likewise a Christidn; Mrs. White was a Methodist, but I fear she was not
                        likewise.
                    As to the first part of this assertion, there was no room to doubt Miss
                        Nancy's piety. She could get happy in class-meeting (for who had a
                        better right?), and could witness a good experience in the quarterly
                        love-feast. But it is not upon these grounds that I base my opinion of Miss
                        Nancy. Do not even the Pharisees the same? She never dreamed that she had
                        any right to speak of "Christian Perfection" (which, as
                        Mrs. Pactington said of total depravity, is an excellent doctrine if it is
                        lived  up to); but when a woman's
                        heart is full of devout affections and good purposes, when her head devises
                        liberal and Christlike things, when her hands are I always open to the poor
                        and always busy with acts of love and self-denial, and when her feet are
                        ever eager to run upon errands of mercy, why, if there be anything worthy of
                        being called Christian Perfection in this world of imperfection, I do not
                        know why such an one does not possess it. What need of analyzing her
                        experiences in vacuo to find out the state of her soul?
                    How Miss Nancy managed to live on her slender income and be so generous was a
                        perpetual source of peplxity to the gossips of Lewisburg. And now that she
                        declared that Mrs. Thomson and Shocky should not return to the poor-house
                        there was a general outcry from the whole Commitee of Intermeddlers that she
                        would bring herself to the poor-house before she died. But Nancy Sawyer was
                        the richest woman in Lewisburg, though no-body knew it, and though she
                        herself did not once suspect it.
                    How Miss Nancy and the preacher conspired together, and how they managed to
                        bring Mrs. Thomson's case up at the time of the
                        "Sacramental Service" in the afternoon of that Sunday in
                        Lewisburg, and how the preacher made a touching statement  of it just before the regular
                        "Collection for the Poor" was taken, and how the
                        warm-hearted Methodists put in dollars instead of dimes while the Presiding
                        Elder read those passages about Zaccheus and other liberal people, and how
                        the congregation sang
                        "He dies, the Friend of sinners dies"
                         more lustily than ever, after having performed this Christian acthow
                        all this happened I can not take up the reader's time to tell. But
                        I can assure him that the nearly blind English woman did not room with
                        blasphemous old Mowley any more, and that the blue-drilling pauper frock
                        gave way to something better, and that grave little Shocky even danced with
                        delight, and declared that God hadn't forgot, though he'd
                        thought that He had. And Mrs. Matilda White remarked that it was a shame
                        that the collection for the poor at a Methodist sac ramental service should
                        be given to a woman who was a member of the Church of England, and like as
                        not never soundly converted!
                    And Shocky slept in his mother's arms and prayed God not to forget
                        Hannah, while Shocky's mother knit stockings for the store day and
                        night, and day and night she prayed and hoped.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV.
                    BUD WOOING.
                    THE Sunday that Ralph spent in Lewisburg, the Sunday that
                        Shocky spent in an earthly paradise, the Sunday that Mrs. Thomson spent with
                        Shocky instead of old Mowley, the Sunday that Miss Nancy thought was
                        "just like heaven," was also an eventful Sunday with Bud
                        Means. He had long adored Miss Martha in his secret heart, but, like many
                        other giants, while brave enough to face and fight dragons, he was a coward
                        in the presence of the woman that he loved. Let no honor him for it. The man
                        who loves a woman truly, reverences her profoundly and feels abashed in her
                        presence. The man who is never abashed in the presence of womanhood, the man
                        who tells his love without a tremor, is a shallow egotist. Bud's
                        nature was not fine. But it was deep, true, and manly. To him Martha Hawkins
                        was the chief of women. What was he that he should aspire to possess her?
                        And yet on that Sunday, with his crippled arm carefully bound up, with his
                        cleanest shirt, and with his heavy boots 
                        freshly oiled with the fat of the raccoon, he started hopefully through
                        fields white with snow to the house of Squire Hawkins. When he started his
                        spirits were high, but they descended exactly in proportion to his proximity
                        to the object of his love. He thought himself not dressed well enough. He
                        wished his shoulders were not so square, and his arms not so stout. He
                        wished that he had booklarnin' enough to court in nice, big words.
                        And so, by recounting his own deficiencies, he succeeded in making himself
                        feel weals, and awkward, and generally good-for nothing, by the time he
                        walked up between the rows of dead hollyhocks to the Squire's front
                        door, to tap at which tool, all his remaining strength.
                    Miss Martha received her perspiring lover most graciously, but this only
                        convinced Bud more than ever that she was a superior being. If she had
                        slighted him a bit, so as to awaken his combativeness, his bashfulness might
                        have disappeared.
                    It was in vain that Martha inquired about his arm and complimented his
                        courage. Bud could only think of his big fect, his clumsy hands, and his
                        slow tongue. He answered in monosyllables, using his red silk handkerchief
                        diligently.
                    "Is your arm improving?" asked "Miss
                        Hawkins."
                    "Yes, I think it is," said "Bud," hastily
                        crossing his  right leg over his left, and
                        trying to get his fists out of sight.
                    "Have you heard from Mr. Pearson?"
                    "No, I ha'n't" answered Bud, removing his
                        right foot to the floor again, because it looked so big, and trying to push
                        his left hand into his pocket.
                    "Beatiful sunshine, isn't it?" said
                        "Martha."
                    "Yes, 'tis" answered Bud, sticking his right foot
                        up on the rung of the chair and putting his right hand behind him.
                    "This snow looks like the snow we have at the East," said
                        "Martha." "It snowed that way the time I was to
                        Bosting."
                    "Did it?" said "Bud," not thinking of the
                        snow at all nor of Boston, but thinking how much better he would have
                        appeared had he left his arms and legs at home.
                    "I suppose Mr. Hartsook rode your horse to Lewisburg?"
                    "Yes, he did;" and Bud hung both hands at his side.
                    "You mere very kind."
                    This set Bud's heart a going so that he could not say anything, but
                        he looked eloquently at Miss Hawkins, drew both feet under the chair, and
                        rammed his hands into his pockets. Then, suddenly remembering how awkward he
                        must look, he  immediately pulled his hands
                        out again, and crossed his legs. There was a silence of a few minutes,
                        during which Bud made up his mind to do the most desperate thing he could
                        think ofto declare his love and take the consequences.
                    "You see, Miss Hawkins," he began, forgetting boots and
                        fists in his agony, "I thought as how I'd come over here
                        to-clay, and "but here his heart failed him
                        utterly"andseeyou."
                    "I'm glad to see you, Mr. Means."
                    "And I thought I'd tell you
                        ""Martha" was sure it was coming now, for Bud was
                        in dead earnest"and I thought I'd just like to tell you,
                        of I only know' d jest how to tell it right "here Bud got
                        frightened, and did not dare close the sentence as he had
                        intended"I thought as how you might like to knowor ruther I wanted
                        to tell youthatthe that Ithat weall of usthinkthatIthat we are going to have
                        a spellin-school a Chewsday night."
                    "I'm real glad to hear it," said the
                        "bland" but disappointed Martha. "We used to have
                        spelling-schools at the Last." But Miss Martha could not remember
                        that they had them "to Bosting."
                    Hard as it is for a bashful man to talk, it is still more difficult for him
                        to close the conversation. Most men like to leave a favorable impression,
                        and  a bashful man is always waiting with the
                        forlorn hope that some favorable turn in the talk: may let him out without
                        absolute discomfiture. And so Bud stayed a long time, and how he ever did
                        away he never could tell.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI.
                    A LETTER AND ITS CONSEQUENCES
                    "SQUAR HAUKINS
                         "this is too Lett u no that a beter be Keerful hoo yoo an
                        yore familly tacks cides with fer peepl wont Stan it too hev the Men
                        wat's sportin the wuns wat'.s robin us, sported bi yor
                        Fokes Kepin Kumpne with 'em, u been a ossifer ov the Lau, yor Ha
                        wil bern as, qick as to an yor Barn tu. so Tak kere. No mor ad
                        peeesnt."
                    This letter accomplished its purpose. The Squire's spectacles
                        slipped off several times while he read it. His wig had to be adjusted. If
                        he had been threatened personally he would not have minded it so much. But
                        the hay stacks were dearer to him than the apple of his glass eye. The barn
                        was more precious than his wig. And those who hoped to touch Bud in a tender
                        place through this letter knew the Squire's weakness far better
                        than they knew the spelling-book. To see his new red barn with its large
                        "Mormon "hay-press inside, and the  mounted Indian on the vane, consumed, was too much for the
                        Hawkins heart to stand. Evidently the danger was on the side of his niece.
                        But how should he influence Martha to give up Bud? Martha did not value the
                        hay-stacks half so highly as she did her lover. Martha did not think the new
                        red barn, with the great Mormon press inside and the galloping Indian on the
                        vane, worth half so much as a moral principle or a kind-hearted action.
                        Martha, bless her! would have sacrificed anything rather than forsake the
                        poor. But Squire Hawkins's lips shut tight over his false teeth in
                        a way that suggested astringent purse strings, and Squire Hawkins could not
                        sleep at night if the new red barn. with the galloping Indian on the vane,
                        were in danger. Martha must be reached somehow.
                    So, with many adjusting, of that most adjustable wig, with many turnings of
                        that reversible glass eye, the Squire managed to frighten Martha by the
                        intimation that he had been threatened, and to make her understand, what it
                        cost her much to under-stand, that she must turn the cold shoulder to
                        chivalrous, awkward Bud, whom she loved most tenderly, partly, perhaps,
                        because he did not re-mind her of anybody she had ever known at the East.
                    Tuesday evening was the fatal time. Spelling 
                        school was the fatal occasion. Bud was the victim. Pete Jones had his
                        revenge. For Bud had been all the evening trying to muster courage enough to
                        offer himself as Martha's escort. Ile was not encouraged by the
                        fact that he had spelled even worse than usual, while Martha had
                        distinguished herself by holding her ground against Jeems Phillips for half
                        an hour. But he screwed his courage to the sticking place, not by quoting to
                        himself the adage, "Faint heart never won fair lady,"
                        which, indeed, he had never heard, but by reminding himself that
                        "ef you don't resk nothin' you'll never
                        git nothin'." So, when the spelling-school had adjourned,
                        he sidled up to her, and, looking dreadfully solemn and a little foolish, he
                        said:
                    "Kin I see you safe home?"
                    And she, with a feeling that her uncle's life was in danger, and
                        that his salvation depended upon her resolutionshe, with a feeling that she
                        was pronouncing sentence of death on her own great hope, answered huskily:
                    "No, I thank you."
                    If she had only Known that it was the red barn with the Indian on top that
                        was in danger, she would probably have let the galloping brave take care of
                        himself.
                    It seemed to Bud, as he walked home mortified,
                    
                    
                        -graced, disappointed, hopeless, that all the world had
                        gone down in a whirlpool of despair.
                    "Might a knowed it," he said to himself. "Of
                        course, a smart gal like Martha a'n't agoin' to
                        take a big, blunderin' fool that can't spell in two
                        syllables. What's the use of tryin'? A Flat Cricker is a
                        Flat Cricker. You can't make nothin' else out of him, no
                        more nor you can make a Chiny hog into a Berkshire."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII.
                    A LOSS AHD A GAIN.
                    DR. SMALL, silent, attentive, assiduous Dr. Small, set
                        himself to work to bind up the wounded heart of Bud Means, even as he had
                        bound up his broken arm. The flattery of his fine eyes, which looked at
                        Bud's muscles so admiringly, which gave attention to his lightest
                        remark, was not lost on the young Flat Creek Hercules. Outwardly at least
                        Pete Jones shoowed no inclination to revenge himself on Bud. Was it respect
                        for muscle, or was it the in fluence of Small? At any rate, the concentrated
                        extract of the resentment of Pete Jones and his clique was now ready to
                        empty itself upon the head of Hartsook. And Ralph found himself in his dire
                        extremity without even the support of Bud, whose good resolutions seemed to
                        give way all at once. There have been many men of culture and more favorable
                        surroundings who have thrown themselves away with less provocation. As it
                        was, Bud quit school, avoided Ralph, and seemed more than ever under the
                        influence of Dr. Small, besides becoming  the
                        intimate of Walter Johnson, Small's student and Mrs. Matilda
                        White's son. They made a strange pair Bud with his firm jaw and
                        silent, cautious manner, and Walter Johnson with his weak chin, his nice
                        neck-ties, and general dandy appearance.
                    To be thus deserted in his darkest hour by his only friend was the bitterest
                        ingredient in Ralph's cup. In vain he sought an interview. Bud
                        always eluded him. While by all the faces about him Ralph learned that the
                        storm was getting nearer and nearer to himself. It might delay. If it had
                        been Pete Jones alone, it might blow over. But Ralph felt sure that the
                        relentless hand of Dr. Small was present in all his troubles. And he had
                        only to look into Small's eye to know how inex-tinguishable was a
                        malignity that burned so steadily and so quietly.
                    But there is no cup of unmixed bitterness. With an innocent man there is no
                        night so dark that some star does not shine. Ralph had one strong
                        sheet-anchor. On his return from Lewisburg on Monday Bud had handed him a
                        note, written on common, blue foolscap, in round, old-fashioned nand. It
                        ran: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "Dear Sir:
                                    
                                    Anybody who can do so good a thing as you did for our Shocky,
                                        can not be bad. I  hope you
                                        will forgive me. All the appearances in the world, and all
                                        that anybody says, can not make me think you anything else
                                        but a good man. I hope God will reward you. You must not
                                        answer this, and you hadn't better see me again, or
                                        think any more of what you spoke about the other night. I
                                        shall be a slave for three years more, and then I must work
                                        for my mother and Shocky; but I felt so bad to think that I
                                        had spoken so hard to you, that I could not help writing
                                        this.
                                    
                                        Respectfully, "HANNAH THOMSON.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    "TO MR. R. HARTSOOK, ESQ."
                    Ralph read it over and over. What else he did with it I shall not tell. You
                        want to know whether he kissed it, and put it into his bosom. Many a man as
                        intelligent and manly as Hartsook has done quite as foolish a thing as that.
                        You have been a little silly perhapsif it is sillyand you have acted in a
                        sentimental sort of a way over such things. But it would never do for me to
                        tell you what Ralph did. Whether he put the letter into his bosom or not, he
                        put the words into his heart, and, metaphorically speaking, he shook that
                        little blue billet, written on coarse foolscap paper he shook that little
                        letter, full of confidence, in the face and eyes of all the calamities that
                        haunted him. If Hannah believed  in him, the
                        whole world might distrust him. When Hannah was in one scale and the whole
                        world in the other, of what account was the world? Justice may be blind, but
                        all the pictures of blind cupids in the world can not make Love blind. And
                        it was well that Ralph weighed things ill this way. For the time was come in
                        which he needed all the courage the blue billet could give him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII.
                    THE FLIGHT.
                    ABOUT ten days after Ralph's return to, Flat
                        Creek things came to a crisis.
                    The master was rather relieved at first to have the crisis come. He had been
                        holding juvenile Flat Creek under his feet by sheer force of will. And such
                        an exercise of "psychic power" is very exhausting. In
                        racing on the Ohio the engineer sometimes sends the largest of the firemen
                        to hold the safety-valve down, and this he does by hanging himself to the
                        lever by his hands. Ralph felt that he had been holding the safety-valve
                        down, and that he was so weary of the operation that an explosion would be a
                        real relief. He was a little tired of having everybody look on him as a
                        thief. It was a little irksome to know that new bolts were put on the doors
                        of the houses in which he had staid. And now that Shocky was gone, and Bud
                        had turned against him, and Aunt Matilda suspected him, and even poor, weak,
                        exquisite Walter Johnson would not associate with him, he felt himself an
                        outlaw indeed. He would have gone away to Texas or the  new gold fields in California had it not been for one thing.
                        That letter on blue foolscap paper kept a little warmth in his heart.
                    His course from school on the evening that something happened lay through the
                        sugar-camp. Among the dark trunks of the maples, solemn and lofty pillars,
                        he debated the case. To stay, or to flee? The worn nerves could not keep
                        their present tension much longer.
                    It was just by the brook, or, as they say in Indiana, the
                            "branch,"1 that something happened which
                        brought him to a sudden decision. Ralph never afterward could forget that
                        brook. It was a swift-running little stream, that did not babble blatantly
                        over the stones. It ran through a thicket of willows, through the
                        sugar-camp, and out into Means's pasture. Ralph had just passed
                        through the thicket, had just crossed the brook on the half-decayed  log that spanned it, when, as he emerged from
                        the water-willows on the other side, he started with a sudden shock. For
                        there was Hannah, with a white, white face, holding out a little note folded
                        like an old-fashioned thumb-paper.
                            1
                            I have already mentioned the absence of pail and
                                    pare from the ancient Hoosier folk-speech. Brook is likewise absent. The illiterate Indiana
                                countryman before the Civil War, let us say, had no pails, pared no
                                apples, husked no corn, crossed no brooks. The same his true, I
                                believe, of the South generally. As the first settlers on the
                                Southern coast entered the land by the rivers, each smaller stream
                                was regarded as a branch of the larger one. A small stream was
                                therefore called a branch. The word brook was
                                probably lost in the first generation. But a small stream is often
                                called a run in the Middle and Southern beit.
                                Halliwell gives rundel as used with the same
                                signification in England, and he gives ryn in the
                                same sense from an old manuscript.
                        
                    
                    "Go quick!" she stammered as she slipped it into
                        Ralph's hand, inadvertently touching his fingers with her owna
                        touch that went tingling through the school-master's nerves. But
                        she had hardly said the words until she was gone down the brookside path and
                        over into the pasture. A few minutes afterward she drove the cows up into
                        the lot and meekly took her scolding from Mrs. Means for being gone sech an
                        awful long time, like a lazy, good-fer-nothin' piece of goods that
                        she was.
                    Ralph opened the thumb-paper note, written on a page torn from an old
                        copy-book, in Bud's "handwrite" and running: 
                            
                                
                                    "Mr. I Ieartsook
                                        "deer Sur:
                                    
                                    "i Put in my best licks, taint no use. Run fer yore
                                        life. A plans on foot to tar an tether or wuss tonight. Go
                                        rite off. Things is awful juberous.1
                                    
                                    
                                        "BUD"
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        1
                        
                            Iuberous is in none of the vocabularies that I have
                            seen. I once treated this word in print as an undoubted corruption of
                                dubious, and when used subjectively it apparently
                            feels the influence of dubious, as where one says: "I feel
                            mighty juberous about it." But it is much oftener applied as in
                            the text to the object of fear, as "The bridge looks kind
                            o' juberous." Halliwell gives the verb juberd and defines it as "to jeopard or
                            endanger." It is clearly a dialect form of jeopard, and I make no doubt that juberous is a
                            dialect variation of jeopardous, occasionally used as
                            a form of dudious.
                        
                    
                    
                    The first question with Ralph was whether he could depend on Bud. But he soon
                        made up his mind that treachery of any sort was not one of his traits. He
                        had mourned over the destruction of Bud's good resolutions by
                        Martha Hawkins's refusal, and being a disinterested party he could
                        have comforted Bud by explaining Martha's
                        "mitten." But he felt sure that Bud was not treacherous.
                        It was a relief, then, as he stood there to know that the false truce was
                        over, and worst had come to worst.
                    His first impulse was to stay and fight. But his nerves were not strong
                        enough to execute so foolhardy a resolution. He seemed to see a man behind
                        every maple-trunk. Darkness was fast coming on, and he knew that his absence
                        from supper at his boarding-place could not fail to excite suspicion. There
                        was no time to be lost. So he started.
                    Once run from a danger, and panic is apt to ensue. The forest, the
                        stalk-fields, the dark hollows through which he passed, seemed to be peopled
                        with terrors. He knew Small and Jones well 
                        enough to know that every avenue of escape would be carefully picketed. So
                        there was nothing to do but to take the shortest path to the old trysting
                        place, the Spring-in-rock.
                    Here he sat and shook with terror. Angry with himself, he inly denounced
                        himself for a coward. But the effect was really a physical one. The chill
                        and panic now were the reaction from the previous strain
                    For when the sound of his pursuers' voices broke upon his ears early
                        in the evening, Ralph shook no more; the warm blood set back again toward
                        the extremities, and his self-control returned when he needed it. He
                        gathered some stones about him, as the only weapons of defense at hand. The
                        mob was on the cliff above. But he thought that he heard footsteps in the
                        bed of the creek below. If this were so, there could be no doubt that his
                        hiding-place was suspected.
                    "O Hank!" shouted Bud from the top of the cliff to some one
                        in the creek below, "be sure to look at the Spring-in-rockI think
                        he's there."
                    This hint was not lost on Ralph, who speedily changed his quarters by
                        climbing up to a secluded, shelf-like ledge above the spring. He was none
                        too soon, for Pete Jones and Hank Banta were soon looking all around the
                        spring for him, while he held  a twenty-pound
                        stone over their heads ready to drop upon them in case they should think of
                        looking on the ledge above.
                    When the crowd were gone Ralph knew that one road was open to him. He could
                        follow down the creek to Clifty, and thence he might escape. But, traveling
                        down to Clifty, he debated whether it was best to escape. To flee was to
                        confess his guilt, to make himself an outlaw, to put an insurmountable
                        barrier between himself and Hannah, whose terror-stricken and anxious face
                        as she stood by the brook-willows haunted him now, and was an involuntary
                        witness to her love.
                    Long before he reached Clifty his mind was made up not to flee another mile.
                        He knocked at the door of Squire Underwood. But Squire Underwood was also a
                        doctor, and had been called away. He knocked at the door of Squire
                        Doolittle. But Squire Doolittle had gone to Lewisburg. He was about to give
                        up all hope of being able to surrender himself to the law when he met Squire
                        Hawkins, who had come ovcr to Clifty to avoid responsibility for the
                        ill-deeds of his neighbors which he was powerless to prevent.
                    "Is that you, Mr. Itartsook?"
                    "Yes, and I want you to arrest me and try me here in
                        Clifty."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX.
                    THE TRIAL.
                    THE "prosecuting attorney" (for so the
                        State's attorney is called in Indiana) had been sent for the night
                        before. Ralph refused all legal help. It was not wise to reject counsel, but
                        all his blond was up, and he declared that he would not be cleared by legal
                        quibbles. If his innocence were not made evident to everybody, he would
                        rather not be acquitted on a preliminary examination. He would go over to
                        the circuit court and have the matter sifted to the bottom. But he would
                        have been pleased had his uncle offered his counsel, though he would have
                        declined it. He would have felt better to have had a letter from home
                        somewhat different from the one he received from his Aunt Matilda by the
                        hand of the prosecuting attorney. It was not very encouraging or very
                        sympathetic, though it was very characteristic.
                    "Dear Ralph:"
                    "This is what I have always been afraid of. I warned you faithfully
                        the last time I saw you. My  skirts are clear
                        of your blood. I can not consent for your uncle to appear as your counsel or
                        to go your bail. You know how much it would injure him in the county, and he
                        has no right to suffer for your evil acts. O my dear nephew! for the sake of
                        your poor, dead mother"
                    We never shall know what the rest of that letter was. Whenever Aunt Matilda
                        got to Ralph's poor, dead mother in her conversation Ralph ran out
                        of the house. And now that his poor, dead mother was again made to do
                        service in his aunt's pious rhetoric, he landed the letter on the
                        hot coals before him, and watched it vanish into smoke with a grim
                        satisfaction.
                    Ralph was a little afraid of a mob. But Clifty was better than Flat Creel,
                        and Squire Hawkins, with all his faults, loved justice, and had a profound
                        respect for the majesty of the law, and a profound respect for his own
                        majesty when sitting as a court representing the law. Whatever maneuvers be
                        might resort to in business affairs in order to avoid a conflict with his
                        lawless neighbors, he was courageous and inflexible on the bench. The Squire
                        was the better part of him. With the co-operation of the constable, he had
                        organized a posse of men who could be depended on to
                        enforce the law against a mob.
                    
                    By the time the trial opened in the large school house in Clifty at eleven
                        o'clock, all the surrounding country had emptied its population
                        into Clifty, and all Flat Creek was on hand ready to testify to something.
                        Those who knew the least appeared to know the most, and were prodigal of
                        their significant winks and nods. Mrs. Means had always suspected him. She
                        seed some mighty suspicious things about him from the word go.
                        She'd allers had her doubts whether he was jist the thing, and ef
                        her ole man had axed her, liker-n not he never'd a been hired.
                        She'd seed things with her own livin' eyes that beat all
                        she ever seed in all her born days. And Pete Jones said he'd allers
                        knowed ther warn't no good in sech a feller. Couldn't stay
                        abed when he got there. And Granny Sanders said, Law's sakes!
                        nobody'd ever a found him out ef it hadn't been fer her.
                        Didn't she go all over the neighborhood a-warnin' people?
                        Fer her part, she seed straight through that piece of goods. He was fund of
                        the gals, too! Nothing was so great a crime in her eyes as to be fond of the
                        gals.
                    The constable paid unwitting tribute to William the Conquerer by crying
                        Squire Hawkins's court open with an Oyez! or, as he said,
                        "O yes!" and the Squire asked Squire Underwood, who came
                        in at that minute, to sit with him. From the start, it  was evident to Ralph that the prosecuting attorney had been
                        thoroughly posted by-Small, though, looking at that worthy's face,
                        one would have thought him the most disinterested and philosophical
                        spectator in the courtroom.
                    Bronson, the prosecutor, was a young man, and this was his first case since
                        his election. He was very ambitious to distinguish himself, very anxious to
                        have Flat Creek influence on his side in politics; and, consequently, he was
                        very determined to send Ralph Hartsook to State prison, justly or unjustly,
                        by fair means or foul. To his professional eyes this was not a question of
                        right and wrong, not a question of life or death to such a man as Ralph. It
                        was George H. Bronson's opportunity to distinguish himself. And so,
                        with many knowing and confident nods and hints, and with much deference to
                        the two squires, he opened the case, affecting great indignation at
                        Ralph's wickedness, and uttering Delphic hints about striped pants
                        and shaven head, and the grating of prison-doors at Jefferson-ville.
                    "And, now, if the court please, I am about to call a witness whose
                        testimony is very important indeed. Mrs. Sarah Jane Means will please step
                        forward and be sworn."
                    This Mrs. Means did with alacrity. She had met 
                        the prosecutor, and impressed him with her dark hints. She was sworn.
                    "Now, Mrs. Means, have the goodness to tell us what you know of the
                        robbery at the house of Peter Schroeder, and the part defendant had in
                        it."
                    "Well, you see, I allers suspected that air young man"
                    Here Squire Underwood stopped her, and told her that she must not tell her
                        suspicions, but facts.
                    "Well, it's facts I am a-going to tell,"
                        "she" sniffed indignantly. "It's facts
                        that I mean to tell." Here her voice rose to a keen pitch, and she
                        began to abuse the defendant. Again and again the court insisted that she
                        must tell what there was suspicious about the school-master. At last she got
                        it out.
                    "Well, fer one thing, what hind of gals did he go with? Hey? Why,
                        with my bound gal, Hanner, a-loafin' along through the blue-grass
                        paster at ten o'clock, and keepin' that gal
                        that's got no protector but me out that a-way, and
                        destroyin' her character by his company, that
                        a'n't fit fer nobody."
                    Here Bronson saw that he had caught a tartar. He said he had no more
                        questions to ask of Mrs. Means, and that, unless the defendant wished to
                        cross-question her, she could stand aside. Ralph said he would like to ask
                        her one question.
                    
                    "Did I ever go with your daughter Miranda?"
                    "No, you didn't," answered the
                        "witness", with a tone and a toss of the head that let the
                        cat out, and set the court-room in a giggle. Bronson saw that he was gaining
                        nothing, and now resolved to follow the line which Small had indicated.
                    Pete Jones was called, and swore point-blank that he heard Ralph go out of
                        the house soon after he went to bed, and that he heard him return at two in
                        the morning. This testimony was given without hesitation, and made a great
                        impression against Ralph in the minds of the justices. Mrs. Jones, a poor,
                        brow-beaten woman, came on the stand in a frightened way, and swore to the
                        same lies as her husband. Ralph cross-questioned her, but her part had been
                        well learned.
                    There seemed now little hope for Ralph. But just at this moment who should
                        stride into the school-house but Pearson, the one-legged old soldier
                        basket-maker? He had crept home the night before, "to see ef the
                        ole woman didn't want somethin'," and hearing of
                        Ralph's arrest, he concluded that the time for him to make
                        "a forrard movement" had come, and so he determined to
                        face the foe.
                    "Looky here, Squar," he said, wiping the perspiration from
                        his brow, "looky here. I jes want to 
                        say that I kin tell as much about this case as anybody."
                    "Let us hear it, then," said "Bronson",
                        who thought he would nail Ralph now for certain.
                    So, with many allusions to the time he fit at Lundy's Lane, and some
                        indignant remarks about the pack of thieves that driv him off, and a passing
                        tribute to Miss Martha Hawkins, and sundry other digressions, in which he
                        had to be checked, the old man told how he'd drunk whisky at
                        Welch's store that night, and how Welch's whisky was
                        all-fired mean, and how it allers went straight to his head, and how he had
                        got a leetle too much, and how he had felt kyinder gin aout by the time he
                        got to the blacksmith's shop, and how he had laid down to rest, and
                        how as lie s'posed the boys had crated him, and how he thought it
                        war all fired mean to crate a old soldier what fit the Britishers, and lost
                        his leg by one of the blamed critters a punchin' his bagonet1
                        through it; and how when he woke up it was all-fired cold, and how he rolled
                        off the crate and  went on towurds home, and how when he got up to the top of Means's
                        hill he met Pete Jones and Bill Jones, and a slim sort of a young man,
                        a-ridin'; and how he know'd the Joneses by ther hosses,
                        and some more things of that kyind about 'em; but he
                        didn't know the slim young man, tho' he tho't he
                        might tell him ef h- seed him agin, kase he was dressed
                        up no slick of town-like. But blamed ef he didn't think it hard
                        that a passel of thieves sech as the Joneses should try to put ther mean
                        things on to a man like the master, that was so kyind to him and to Shocky,
                        tho', felt that matter, blamed ef he didn't think we was
                        all selfish, akordin' to his tell. Had seed somebody that night
                        a-crossin' over the blue-grass paster. Didn't know who in
                        thunder 'twas, but it was somebody a-makin' straight fer
                        Pete Jones's. Hadn't seed nobody
                        else,'ceptin' Dr. Small, a short ways, behind the
                            Joneses.
                            1
                            This form, bagonet, is not in the vocabularies, but
                                it was spoken as I have written it. The Century Dictionary gives bagnet, and Haltiwell and Wright both give baginet with the g soft
                                apparently, though neither the one nor the other is very explicit in
                                distinguishing transcriptions from old authors from phonetic
                                spellings of dialect forms. I fancy that this bagonet is impossible as a corruption of bayonet and that it points to some other derivation of that
                                word than the doubtful one, from Bavonne.
                        
                    
                    Hannah was now brought on the stand. She was greatly agitated, and answered
                        with much reluctance. Lived at Mr. Means's. Was eighteen years of
                        age in October. Had been bound to Mrs. Means three years ago. Had walked
                        home with Mr. Hartsook that evening, and, happening to look out of the
                        window toward morning, she saw some one cross the pasture. Did not know who
                        it was. Thought it was Mr. Hartsook. Here Mr. Bronson
                    16
                    
                    (evidently prompted by at suggestion that came from what Small had overheard
                        when he listened in the barn) asked her if Mr. Hartsook had ever said
                        anything to her about the matter afterward. After some hesitation, Hannah
                        said that he had said that he crossed the pasture. Of his own accord? No,
                        she spoke of it rst. Had Mr. Hartsook offered any explanations?
                        No, he hadn't Had he ever paid her any attention afterward? No.
                        Ralph declined to cross question Hannah. To him she never seemed so fair as
                        when telling the truth so sublimely.
                    Bronson now informed the court that this little trick of having the old
                        soldier happen in, in the nick of time, wouldn't save the prisoner
                        at the bar from the just punishment which an outraged law visited upon such
                        crimes as his. He regretted that his duty as a public prosecutor caused it
                        to fall to his lot to marshal the evidence that was to blight the prospects
                        and blast the character, and annihilate for ever, so able and promising a
                        young man, but that the late knew no difference between the educated and the
                        uneducated, and that for his part he thought Hartsook a most dangerous foe
                        to the peace of society. The evidence already given fastened suspicion upon
                        him. The prisoner had not yet been able to break its force at all. The
                        prisoner  had not even dared to try to explain
                        to a young lady the reason for his being out at night. He would now conclude
                        by giving the last touch to the dark evidence that would sink the once fair
                        name of Ralph Hartsook in a hundred fathoms of infamy. He would ask that
                        Henry Banta be called.
                    Hank came forward sheepishly, and was sworn. Lived about a hundred yards from
                        the house that was robbed. He seen ole man Pearson and the master and one
                        other feller that he didn't know come away from there together
                        about one o'clock. He heerd the horses kicbin', and went
                        out to the stable to see about them. He seed two men come out of
                        Schroeder's back door and meet one man standing at the gate. When
                        they got closter he knowed Pearson by his wooden leg and the master by his
                        hat. On cross-examination he was a little confused when asked why he
                        hadn't told of it before, but said that he was afraid to say much,
                        bekase the folks was a-talkin' about hanging the master, and the
                        didn't want no lynchin'.
                    The prosecution here rested, Bronson maintaining that there was enough
                        evidence to justify Ralph's committal to await trial. But the court
                        thought that as the defendant had no counsel and offered no rebutting
                        testimony, it would be only  fair to hear what
                        the prisoner had to say in his own defense.
                    All this while poor Ralph was looking about the room for Bud. Bud's
                        actions had of late been strangely contradictory. But had he turned coward
                        and deserted his friend? Why else did he avoid the session of the court?
                        After asking himself such questions as these, Ralph would wonder at his own
                        folly. What could Bud do if he were there? There was no human power that
                        could prevent the victim of so vile a conspiracy as this, lodging in that
                        worst of State prisons at Jeffersonville, a place too bad for criminals. But
                        when there is no human power to help, how naturally does the human mind look
                        for some divine intervention on the side of Right! And Ralph's
                        faith in Providence looked in the direction of Bud. But since no Bud came,
                        he shut down the valves and rose to his feet, proudly, defiantly, fiercely
                        calm.
                    "It's of no use for no to say anything. Peter Jones has
                        sworn to a deliberate falsehood, and he knows it. He has made his wife
                        perjure her poor soul that she dare not call her own." Here
                        Pete's fists clenched, but Ralph in his present humor did not care
                        for mobs. The spirit of the bulldog had complete possession of him.
                        "It is of no use for me to tell you that Henry Banta has sworn to a
                        lie,  partly to revenge himself on me for
                        punishments I have given him, and partly, perhaps, for money. The real
                        thieves are in this courtroom. I could put my finger on them."
                    "To be sure," responded the old
                        basket-maker. Ralph looked at Pete Jones, then at Small. The fiercely calm
                        look attracted the attention of the people. He knew that this look would
                        probably cost him his life before the next morning. But he did not care for
                        life. "The testimony of Miss Hannah Thomson is every word true. I
                        believe that of Mr. Pearson to be true. The lost is false. But I can not
                        prove it. I know the men I have to deal with. I shall not escape with State
                        prison. They trill not spare my life. But the people of Clifty will one day
                        find out who are the thieves" Ralph then proceeded to tell how he
                        had left Pete Jones's, Mr. Jones's bed being
                        uncomfortable; how he had walked through the pasture; how he had seen three
                        men on horseback; how he had noticed the sorrel with the white left forefoot
                        and white nose; how he had seen Dr. Small; how, after his return, he had
                        heard some one enter the house, and how he had recognized the horse the next
                        morning."There," said "Ralph
                        desperalty," leaving his finger at Pete, "there is a mall
                        who will yet see the inside of a penitentiary I shall not live to see it,
                             but the rest of you will."
                        "Pete" quailed. Ralph's speech could not of
                        course break the force of the testimony against him. But it had its effect,
                        and it had effect enough to alarm "Bronson," who rose and
                        said:
                    "I should like to ask the prisoner at the bar one
                        question."
                    "Ask me a dozen," said "Hartsook,"
                        looking more like a king than a criminal.
                    "Well, then, Mr. Hartsook. You need not answer unless you choose;
                        but what prompted you to take the direction you did in your walk on that
                        evening?"
                    This shot brought Ralph down. To answer this question truly would attach to
                        friendless Hannah Thomson some of the disgrace that now belonged to him.
                    "I decline to answer," said "Ralph."
                    "Of course, I do not want the prisoner to criminate
                        himself," said "Bronson" significantly.
                    During this last passage Bud had come in, but, to Ralph's
                        disappointment he remained near the door, talking to Walter Johnson, who had
                        come with him. The magistrates put their heads together to fix the amount of
                        bail, and, as they differed, talked for some minutes. Small now for the
                        first time thought best to make a move in his own proper  person. He could hardly have been afraid of
                        Ralph's acquittal. He may have been a little anxious at the manner
                        in which he had been mentioned, and at the significant look of Ralph, and he
                        probably meant to excite indignation enough against the school-master to
                        break the force of his speech, and secure the lynching of the prisoner,
                        chiefly by people outside his gang. He rose and asked the court in gentlest
                        tones to hear him. He had no personal interest in this trial, except his
                        interest in the welfare of his old schoolmate, Mr. Hartsook. He was grieved
                        and disappointed to find the evidence against him so damaging and he would
                        not for the world add a feather to it, if it were not that his own name had
                        been twice alluded to by the defendant, and by his friend, and perhaps his
                        confederate, John Pearson. He was prepared to swear that he was not over in
                        Flat Creek the night of the robbery later than ten o'clock, and
                        while the statements of the two persons alluded to, whether maliciously
                        intended or not, could not implicate him at all, he thought perhaps this
                        lack of veracity in their statements might be of weight in determining some
                        other points. He therefore suggestedhe could only suggest, as he was not a
                        party to the case in any waythat his student, Mr. Walter Johnson, be called
                        to testify as to hisDr. Small's
                    
                    exact whereabouts on the night in question. They were together in his office
                        until two, when he went to the tavern and went to bed.
                    Squire Hawlins, having adjusted his teeth, his wig, and his glass eye,
                        thanked Dr. Small for a suggestion so valuable, and thought best to put John
                        Pearson under arrest before proceeding further. Mr. Pearson was therefore
                        arrested, and was heard to matter something about a "passel of
                        thieves," when the court warned him to be quiet.
                    Walter Johnson was then called. But before giving his testimony, I must crave
                        the reader's patience while I go back to some things which happened
                        nearly a week before and which will serve to make it intelligible.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX.
                    "BROTHER SODIOM."
                    IN oredr to explain Walter Johnson's testimony
                        and his state of mind, I must carry the reader back nearly a week. The scene
                        was Dr. Small's office. Bud and Walter Johnson had been having some
                        confidential conversation that evening, and Bud had got more out of his
                        companion than that exquisite but weak young man had intended. He looked
                        round in a frightened way.
                    "You see," said "Walter", "if
                        Small knew I had told you that, I'd get a bullet some night from
                        somebody. But when you're initiated it'll be all right.
                        Sometimes I wish I was out of it. But, you know, Small's this hind
                        of a man. He sees through you. He can look through a door"and there
                        he shivered, and his voice broke down into a whisper. But Bud was perfectly
                        cool, and doubtless it was the strong coolness of Bud that made Walter, who
                        shuddered at a shadow, come to him for sympathy and unbosom himself of one
                        of his guilty secrets.
                    
                    "Let's go and hear Brother Sodom preach tonight,"
                        said "Bud."
                    "No, I don't like to."
                    "He don't scare you?" There was just a touch of
                        ridicule in Bud's voice. He knew Walter, and he had not counted
                        amiss when he used this little goad to prick a skin so sensitive.
                        "Brother Sodom "was the nickname given by scoffers to the
                        preacher stirrups Bud had helped to amputate. For reasons of his own, Bud
                        thought best to subject young Johnson to the heat of Mr. Soden's
                        furnace.
                    Peter Cartwright boasts that, on a certain occasion people he "shock
                        his brimstone wallet" over the people. Mr. Soden could never preach
                        without his brimstone wallet. There are those of refinement so attenuated
                        that they will not admit that fear can have any place in religion. But a.
                        religion without fear could never have evangelized the West, which at one
                        time bade fair to become a perdition as bad as any that Brother Sodom ever
                        depicted. And against these on the one side, and the Brother Sodoms on the
                        other, I shall interrupt my story to put this chapter under shelter of that
                        wise remark of the great Dr. Adam Clark, who says "The fear of God
                        is the beginning of wisdom, the  terror of God
                        confounds the soul;" and that other saying of his: "With
                        the fear of God the love of God the loveof God is ever
                        consistent; but where the terrorof the Lord reigns, there
                        can neither be fear, faith, nor love;
                        nay, nor hopeeither." And yet I am not sure that
                        even the Brother Sodoms were made in vain.
                    On this evening Mr. Soden was as terrible as usual. Bud heard him without
                        flinching. Small, who sat farther forward, listened with pious approval. Mr.
                        Soden, out of distorted figures piecedtogether from different passages of
                        Scripture, built a heli, not quite Miltonic, nor yet Dantean, but as
                        Miltonic and Dantean as his unrefined imagination max of hideous
                        description, Walter Johnson trembled from head to foot and sat close to Bud.
                        Then, as burly Mr. Soden, with great gusto, depicted materialistic tortures
                        that startled the nerves of everybody except Bud, Walter wanted to leave,
                        but Bud would not let him. For some reason he wished to keep his companion
                        in the crucible as long as possible.
                    "Young man!" cried Mr. Soden, and the explosive voice
                        seemed to come from the hell that he had created "young man! you
                        who have followed the counsel of evil companions" here he paused
                        and looked about, as if trying to find the man he wanted,  whiie Walter crept up close to Bud and shaded
                        his face"I mean you who have chosen evil pursuits and who can not
                        get free from bad habits and association that are dragging you down to hell!
                        You are standing on the very crumbling brink of hell tonight; the hot breath
                        of hell is in your face! The devils are waiting for you! Delay and you are
                        damned! You may die before daylight! You may never get out that door! The
                        awful angel of death is just ready to strike you down!" Here some
                        shrieked with terror, others sobbed, and Brother Sodom looked with approval
                        on the storm he had awakened. The very harshness of his tone, his lofty
                        egotism of manner, that which had roused all Bud's combativeness,
                        shook poor Walter as a wind would shake a reed. In the midst of the general
                        excitement he seized his hat and hastened out the door. Bud followed, while
                        Soden shot his lightnings after them, declaring that "young men who
                        ran away from the truth would dwell in torments forever.
                    Bud had not counted amiss when he thought that Mr. Soden's preaching
                        would be likely to arouse so mean-spirited a fellow as Walter. So vivid was
                        the impression that Johnson begged Bud to return to the office with him. He
                        felt sick, and  was afraid that he should die
                        before morning. He insisted that Bud should stay with him all night. To this
                        Means readily consented, and by morning he had heard all that the frightened
                        Walter had to tell.
                    And now let us return to the trial, where Ralph sits waiting the testimony of
                        Walter Johnson, which is to prove his statement false.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI.
                    THE TRIAL CONCLUDED.
                    I DO not know how much interest the "gentle reader" may
                        feel in Bud. But I venture to hope that there are some Buddhists among my
                        readers who will wish the contradictoriness of his actions explained. The
                        first dash of disappointment had well-nigh upset him. And when a man
                        concludes to throw overboard his good resolutions, he always seeks to avoid
                        the witnesss of those resolutions. Hence Bud, after that distressful Tuesday
                        evening on which Miss Martha had given him "the sack,"
                        wished to see Ralph less than any one else. And yet when he came to suspect
                        Small's villainy, his whole nature revolted at it. But having
                        broken with Ralph, he thought it best to maintain an attitude of apparent
                        hostility, that he might act as a detective, and, perhaps, save his friend
                        from the mischief that threatened him. As soon as he heard of
                        Ralph's arrest he determined to make Walter Johnson tell his own
                        secret in court, because he knew that it would be best for
                    
                    Ralph that Walter should tell it. Bud's telling at second-hand would
                        not be conclusive. And he sincerely desired to save Walter from prison. For
                        Walter Johnson was the victim of Dr. Small, or of Dr. Small and such novels
                        as "The Pirate's Bride,' 'Claude
                        Duval," "The Wild Rover of the West Indies," and
                        the cheap biographies of such men as Murrell. Small found him with his
                        imagination inflamed by the history of such heroes, and opened to him the
                        path to glory for which he longed.
                    The whole morning after Ralph's arrest Bud was working on
                        Walter's conscience and his fears. The poor fellow, unable to act
                        for himself, was torn asunder between the old ascendency of Small and the
                        new ascendency of Bud Means. Bud finally frightened him, by the fear of the
                        penitentiary, into going to the place of trial. But once inside thedoor, and
                        once in sight of Small, who was more to him than God, or, rather, more to
                        him than the devilfor the devil was Walter's God, or, perhaps, I
                        should say, Walter's God was a devilonce in sight of Small, he
                        refused to move an inch farther. And Bud, after all his perseverance, was
                        about to give up in sheer despair.
                    Fortunately, just at that moment Small's desireto relieve himself
                        the tain of suspicion and to crush Ralph as completely as possible, made him
                             overshoot the murk by asking that Walter
                        be called to the stand, as we have before recounted. He knew that he had no
                        tool so supple as the cowardly Walter. In the very language of the request,
                        he had given Walter an intimation of what he wanted him to swear to. Walter
                        listened to Small's words as to his doom. He felt that he should
                        die of indcecision. The perdition fo a man of his stamp is to have to make
                        up his mind. Such men generally fall back on some one more positive, and
                        take all their resolutions ready-made. But here Walter must decide for
                        himself. For the constable was already calling his name; the court, the
                        spectators, and, most of all, Dr. Small, were waiting for him. He moved
                        forward mechanically through the dense crowd, find following part of the way
                        to whisper, "Tell the truth or go to penitentiary." Walter
                        shook and shivered at this. The witness with difficulty held up his hand
                        long enough to be sworn.
                    "Please tell the court," said "Branson,"
                        "whether you know anything of the whereabouts of Dr. Small on the
                        night of the robbery at Peter Schroeder'."
                    Small had detected Walter's agitation, and, taking alarm, had edged
                        his way around so as to stand lull in Walter's sight, and there,
                        with keen, magnetic eye on the weak orbs of the young man, he  was able to assume his old position, and sway
                        the fellow absolutely.
                    "On the night of the robbery" Walter's voice was
                        weak, but he seemed to be reading his answer out of Small's eyes
                        "on the night of the roobery Dr. Small came home before"
                        here the witness stopped and shook and shivered again. For Bud, detecting
                        the effect of Small's gaze, had pushed his great hulk in front of
                        Small, and had fastened his eyes on Walter with a look that said. Teil the
                        truth or go to penitentiary."
                    "I can't, O God! What shall I do?" the witness
                        exclaimed, answering the look of Bud. For it seemed to him that Bud had
                        spoken. To the people and the court this agitation was inexplicable. Squire
                        Hawkins's wig got awrv his glass eye turned in toward his nose, and
                        he had great difficulty in keeping his teeth from falling out. The
                        excitement became painfully intense. Ralph was on his feet, looking at the
                        witness, and feeling that somehow Bud and Dr. Smallhis good angel and his
                        demon were playing an awful game. Or which he was the stake. The crowd
                        swayed to and fro, but remained utterly silent, waiting to hear the least
                        whisper from the witness, who stood trembling a moment with his hands over
                        his face, and the fainted.
                    
                    The fainting of a person in a crowd is a signal for everybody else to make
                        fools of themselves. There was a rush toward the fainting man, there was a
                        cry for water. Everybody asked everybody else to open the window, and
                        everybody wished everybody else to stand back and give him air. But nobody
                        opened the window, and nobody stood back. The only perfectly cool man in the
                        room was Small. With a quiet air of professional authority he pushed forward
                        and felt the patient's pulse, remarking to the court that he
                        thought it was a sudden attack of fever with delirium. When Walter revived,
                        Dr. Small would have removed him, but Ralph insisted that his testimony
                        should be heard. Under pretense of watching his patient, Small kept close to
                        him. And Walter began the same old story about Dr. Small's having
                        arrived at the office before eleven o'clock, when Bud came up
                        behind the doctor and fastened his eyes on the witness with the same
                        significant look, and Walter, with visions of the penitentiary before him
                        halted, stammered, and seemed about to faint again.
                    "If the court please," said "Branson",
                        "this witness is evidently intimidated by that stout young
                        man," pointing to Bud. "I have seen him twice interrupt
                        witness's testimony by casting threatening looks at  him. I trust the court will have him removed
                        from the court-room."
                    After a few moments' consultation, during which Squire Hawkins held
                        his wig in place with one hand and alternately adjusted his eye and his
                        spectacles with the other, the magistrates, who were utterly bewildered by
                        the turn things were taking, decided that it could do no harm, and that it
                        was best to try the experiment of removing Bud. Per-haps Johnson would then
                        be able to get through with his testimony. The constable therefore asked Bud
                        if he would please leave the room. Bud cast one last look at the witness and
                        walked out like a captive bear.
                    Ralph stood watching the receding form of Bud. The emergency had made him as
                        cool as Small ever was. Bud stopped at the door, where he was completely out
                        of sight of the witness, concealed by the excited spectators, who stood on
                        the benches to see what was going on in front.
                    "The witness will please proceed," said
                        "Bronson."
                    "If the court please "it was Ralph who spoke"I
                        believe I have as much at stake in this trial as any one. That witness is
                        evidently intimidated. But not by Mr. Means. I ask that Dr. Small be removed
                        out of sight of the witness."
                    "A most extraordinary request, truly." This  was what Small's bland countenance
                        said; he did not open his lips.
                    "It's no more than fair," said "Squire
                        Hawkins," adjusting his wig, "that the witness be relieved
                        of everything that anybody might think affects his veracity in this
                        matter."
                    Dr. Small, giving Walter one friendly, appealing look, moved back by the
                        door, and stood alongside Bud, as meek, quiet, and disinterested as any man
                        in the house.
                    "The witness will now proceed with his testimony." This
                        time it was Squire Hawkins who spoke. Bronson had been attacked with a
                        suspicion that this witness was not just what he wanted, and had relapsed
                        into silence.
                    Walter's struggle was by no means ended by the disappearance of
                        Small and Bud. There came the recollection of his mother's stern
                        facea face which had never been a motive toward the right, but only a goad
                        to deception. What would she say if he should confess? Just as he had
                        recovered himself, and was about to repeat the old lie which had twice died
                        upon his lips at the sight of Bud's look, he caught sight of
                        another face, which made him tremble again. It was the lofty and terrible
                        countenance of Mr. Soden. One might have thought, from the expression it
                        wore, that the seven last  vials were in his
                        hands, the seven apocalyptic trumpets waiting for his lips, and the seven
                        thunders sitting upon his eyebrows. The moment that Walter saw him he
                        smelled the brimstone on his own garments, he felt himself upon the
                        crumbling brink of the precipice, with perdition below him. Now I am sure
                        that "Brother Sodoms" were not made wholly in vain. There
                        are plenty of mean-spirited men like Walter Johnson, whose feeble
                        consciences need all the support they can get from the fear of perdition,
                        and who are incapable of any other conception of it than a coarse and
                        materialistic one. Let us set it down to the credit of Brother Sodom, with
                        his stiff stock, his thunderous face, and his awful walk, that his influence
                        over Walter was on the side of truth.
                    "Please proceed," said "Squire Hawkins"
                        to Walter The Squire's wig lay on one side, he had forgotten to
                        adjust his eye, and he leaned forward, tremulous with interest.
                    "Well, then," said "Walter," looking not
                        at the court nor at Bronson nor at the prisoner, but furtively at Mr. Soden
                        "well, then, if I must"and Mr. Soden's awful face
                        seemed to answer that he surely must"well, then, I hope you
                        won't send me to prison"this to Squire Hawkins, whose face
                        reassured him"but, oh! I don't see how I can!"
                    
                    But one look at Mr. Soden assured him that he could and that he must, and so,
                        with an agony painful to the spectators, he told the story in driblets. How,
                        while yet in Lewisburg, he had been made a member of a gang of which Small
                        was chief how they concealed from him the names of all the band except six,
                        of whom the Joneses and Smell were three.
                    Here there was a scuffle at the door. The court demanded silence.
                    "Dr. Small's trying to git out, plague take him,"
                        said "Bud," who stood with his back planted against the
                        door. "I'd like the court to send aced git his trunk afore
                        he has a chance to burl up all the papers that's in it."
                    "Constable, you will arrest Dr. Small, Peter Jones, and William
                        Jones. Send two deputies to bring Small s trunk into court," said
                        "Squire Under-wood."
                    The prosecuting attorney was silent.
                    Walter then told of the robbery at Schroeder's, told where he and
                        Small had whittled the fence while the Joneses entered the house, and
                        confirmed Ralph's story by telling how they had seen Ralph in a
                        fence-corner, and how they had met the basket-maker on the hill.
                    "To be sure," said the "old
                        man," who had not  ventured to hold
                        up his head, after he was arrested, until Walter began his testimony.
                    Walter felt inclined to stop, but he could not do it, for there stood Mr.
                        Soden, looking to him like a messenger from the skies, or the bottomless
                        pit, sent to extort the last word from his guilty soul. He felt that he was
                        making a clean breast of itat the risk of perdition, with the penitentiary
                        thrown if he faltered. And so he told the whole thing as though it had been
                        the day of doom, and by the time he was through, Small's trunk was
                        in court.
                    Here a new hubbub took place at the door. It was none other than the crazy
                        pauper, Tom Bifield, who personated General Andrew Jackson in the
                        poor-house. He had caught some inkling of the trial, and had escaped in Bill
                        Jones's absence. His red plume was flying, and in his tattered and
                        filthy garb he was indeed a picturesque figure.
                    "Squar," said he, elbowing his way through the crowd,
                        "I kin tell you somethin'. I'm Gineral Andrew
                        Jackson. Lost my head at Bueny Visty. This head growed on. It
                        a'n't good fer much One side's tater. But
                        t'othcr's sound as a nut. Now, I kind give you
                        information."
                    Bronson, with the quick perceptions of a politician, had begun to see which
                        way future winds  would probably blow.
                        "If the court please," he said, "this man is not
                        wholly sane, but we might get valuable information out of him. I suggest
                        that his testimony be taken for what it is worth."
                    "No, you don't sway me," broke in the lunatic.
                        "Not if I knows myself. You see, when a feller's got one
                        side of his head tater he's mighty onsartain like. You
                        don't swar me, fer I can't tell what minute the tater
                        side'll begin to talk. I'm talkin' out of the
                        lef' side now, and I'm all right. But you don't
                        swar me. But of you'll send some of your constables out to the barn
                        at the pore-house and look under the hay-mow in the north-east corner,
                        you'll find some things maybe as has been a-missin' fes
                        some time. And that a'n't out of the tater side,
                        nether."
                    Meantime Bud did not rest. Hearing the nature of the testimony given by Hank
                        Banta before he entered, he attacked Hank and vowed he'd send him
                        to prison if he didn't make a clean breast. Hank was a thorough
                        coward, and, now that his friends were prisoners, was ready enough to tell
                        the truth if he could be protected from prosecution. Seeing the disposition
                        of the prosecuting attorney, Bud got from him a promise that he would do
                        what he could to protect Hank. That worthy then took the stand, confessed
                        his lie, and even told the inducement  which
                        Mr. Pete Jones had offered him to perjure himself.
                    "To be sure," said
                        "Pearson."
                    Squire Hawkins, turning his right eye upon him, while the left looked at the
                        ceiling, said: "De careful, Mr. Pearson, or I shall have to punish
                        you for contempt."
                    "Why, Squar, I didn't know 'twas any sin to hev a
                        healthy contemp' fer seek a thief as Jones!"
                    The Squire looked at Mr. Pearson severely, and the latter, feeling that he
                        had committed some offense without knowing it, subsided into silence.
                    Bronson now had a keen sense of the direction of the gale.
                    "If the court please," said he, "I have tried to
                        do my duty in this case. It was my duty to prosecute Mr. Hartsoole, however
                        much I might feel assured that he was innocent, and that he would be able to
                        prove his innocence. I now enter a nolle in his case and
                        that of John Pearson, and I ask that this court adjourn until to-morrow, in
                        order to give me time to examine the evidence in the case of the other
                        parties under arrest. I am proud to think that my efforts have been the
                        means of sifting the matter to the bottom, of freeing Mr. Hartsook from
                        suspicion, and of detecting the real criminals."
                    
                    "Ugh!" said "Mr. Pearson," who conceived
                        a great dislike to Bronson.
                    "The court," said "Squire Hawkins,"
                        "congratulates Mr. Hartsook on his triumphant acquittal. He is
                        discharged from the bar of this court, and from the bar of public sentiment,
                        without a suspicion of guilt. Constable, discharge Ralph Hartsook and John
                        Pearson."
                    Old Jack Means, who had always had a warm side for the master, now proposed
                        three cheers for Mr. Hartsook, and they were given with a will by the people
                        who would have hanged him an hour before.
                    Mrs. Means gave it as her opinion that "Jack Means alters wuz a
                        fool!"
                    "This court," said "Dr. Underwood,"
                        "has one other duty to perform before adjourning for the day.
                        Recall Hannah Thomson."
                    "I jist started her on ahead to git supper and mills the
                        coins," said "Mrs. Means."
                        "A'n't a-goin' to have her
                        loafin' here all day."
                    "Constable, recall her. This court can not adjourn until she
                        returns!"
                    Hannah had gone but a little way, and was soon in the presence of the court,
                        trembling for fear of some new calamity.
                    "Hannah Thomson"it was Squire Underwood  who spoke "Hannah Thomson, this
                        court wishes to ash you one or two questions."
                    "Yes, sir," but her voice died to a whisper.
                    "How old did you say you were?"
                    "Eighteen, sir, last October."
                    "Can you prove your age?"
                    "Yes, sirby my mother."
                    "For how long are you bound to Mr. Means?"
                    "Till I'm twenty-one."
                    This court feels in duty bound to inform you that, according to the laws of
                        Indiana, a woman is of age at eighteen, and as no indenture could be made
                        binding after you had reached your majority, you are the victim of a
                        deception. You are free, and if it can be proven that you have been
                        defrauded by a willful deception, a suit for damages will lie."
                    "Ugh!" said Mrs. Means. "You're a purty
                        court, a'n't you, Dr. Underwood?"
                    "Be careful, Mrs. Means, or I shall have to fine you for contempt of
                        court."
                    But the people, who were in the cheering humor, cheered Hannah and the
                        justices, and then cheered Ralph again. Granny Sanders shook hands with him,
                        and allers knowed he'd come out right. It alters 'peered
                        like as if Dr. Small warn't jist the sort to tie to, you know. And
                        old John Pearson  went home, after drinking
                        two or three glasses of Welch's whisky, keeping time to an
                        imaginary triumphal march, and feeling prouder than he had ever felt since
                        he fit the Britishers under Scott at Lundy's Lane. He told his wife
                        that the master had jist knocked the hind-sights offen that air young lawyer
                        from Lewisburg.
                    Walter was held to bail that he might appear as a witness, and Ralph might
                        have sent his aunt a Roland for an Oliver. But he only sent a note to his
                        uncle, asking him to go Walter's bail. If he had been resentful, he
                        could not have wished for a more complete revenge than the day had
                    brought.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII.
                    AFTER THE BATTLE.
                    NOTHING can be more demoralizing in the long run than
                        lynch law. And yet lynch law often originates in a burst of generous
                        indignation which is not willing to suffer a bold oppressor to escape by
                        means of corrupt and cowardly courts. It is oftener born of fear. Both
                        motives powerfully agitated the people of the region round about Clifty as
                        night drew on after Ralph's acquittal. They were justly indignant
                        that Ralph had been made the victim of such a conspiracy, and they were
                        frightened at the unseen danger to the community from such a band as that of
                        Small's. It was certain that they did not know the full extent of
                        the danger as yet. And what Small might do with a jury, or what Pete Jones
                        might do with a sheriff, was a question. I must not detain the reader to
                        tell how the mob rose. Nobody knows how such things come about. Their origin
                        is as inexplicable as that of an earthquake. But, at any rate, a rope was
                        twice put round Small's neck during that night, and both  times Small was saved only by the nerve and
                        address of Ralph, who had learned how unjust mob law may be. As for Small,
                        he neither trembled when they were ready to hang him, nor looked relieved
                        when he was saved, nor showed the slightest flush of penitence or gratitude.
                        He bore himself in a quiet, gentlemanly way throughout, like the admirable
                        villain that he was.
                    He waived a preliminary examination the next day; his father went his bail,
                        and he forfeited bail and disappeared from the county and from the horizon
                        of my story. Two reports concerning Small have been in circulationone that
                        he was running a faro-bank in San Francisco, the other that he was curing
                        consumption in New York by some quack process. If this latter were true, it
                        would leave it an open question whether Ralph did well to save him from the
                        gallows. Pete Jones and Bill, as usually happens to the rougher villains,
                        went to prison, and when their terms had expired moved to Pike County,
                        Missouri.
                    But it is about Hannah that you wish to hear, and that I wish to tell. She
                        went straight from the court room to Flat Creek, climbed to her chamber,
                        packed in a handkerchief all her earthly goods, consisting chiefly of a few
                        family relics, and turned her back on the house of Means forever. At the  gate she met the old woman, who shook her
                        fist in the girl's face and gave her a parting benediction in the
                        words: "You mis'able, ongrateful critter you, go
                        'long. I'm glad to be shed of you!" At the barn
                        she met Bud, and he told her good by with a little huskiness in his voice,
                        while a tear glistened in her eyes. Bud had been a friend in need, and such
                        a friend one does not leave without a pang.
                    "Where are you going? Can I"
                    "No, no!" And with that she hastened on, afraid that Bud
                        would offer to hitch up the roan colt. And she did not want to add to his
                        domestic unhappiness by compromising him in that way.
                    It was dusk and was raining when she left. The hours were long, the road was
                        lonely, and after the revelations of that day it did not seem wholly safe.
                        But from the moment that she found herself free, her heart had been ready to
                        break with an impatient homesickness. What though there might be robbers in
                        the woods? What though there were ten rough miles to travel? What though the
                        rain was in her face? What though she had not tasted food since the morning
                        of that exciting day? Flat Creek and bondage were behind; freedom, mother,
                        Shocky, and home were before her, and her feet grew lighter with the
                        thought. And if she needed any other joy, it was to know that the master was
                             clear. And he would come? And so she
                        traversed the weary distance, and so she inquired and found the house, the
                        beautiful, homely old house of beautiful, homely old Nancy Sawyer, and
                        knocked, and was admitted, and fell down, faint and weary, at her blind
                        mother's feet, and laid her tired head in her mother's lap
                        and wept and wept like a child, and said, "O mother! I'm
                        free! I'm free!" while the mother's tears
                        baptized her face, and the mother's trembling fingers combed out
                        her tresses. And Shocky stood by her and cried: "I knowed God
                        wouldn't forget you, Hanner!"
                    Hannah was ready now to do anything by which she could support her mother and
                        Shocky. She was strong, and inured to toil. She was willing and cheerful,
                        and she would gladly have gone to service if by that moans she could have
                        supported the family. And, for that matter her mother was already able
                        nearly to support herself by her knitting. But Hannah had been carefully
                        educated when young, and at that moment the old public schools were being
                        organized into a graded school, and the good minister, who shall be
                        nameless, because he is, perhaps, still living in Indiana, and who in
                        Methodist parlance was called "the preacher in-charge of Lewisburg
                        Station "this good minister and Miss Nancy Sawyer got Hannah a
                        place as  teacher in the primary department.
                        And then a little house with four rooms was rented, and a little a very
                        little furniture was put into it, and the old, sweet home was established
                        again. The father was gone, never to come back again. But the rest were
                        here. And some how Hannah kept waiting for somebody else to come.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII.
                    INTO THE LIGHT.
                    FOR two weeks longer Ralph taught_at the Flat Creek school-house. He was
                        everybody's hero. And he was Bud's idol. He did what he
                        could to get Bud and Martha together, and though Bud always "saw
                        her safe home" after this, and called on her every sunday evening,
                        hyet to save his life, he could not forget his big fists and his big feet
                        long enough to say what he most wanted to say, and what Martha most wanted
                        him to say.
                    At the end of two weeks Ralph found himself exceedingly weary of Flat Creek,
                        and exceedingly glad to hear from Mr. Means that the school-money had
                        "gin out." It gave him a good excuse to return to
                        Lewisburg, where his heart and his treasure were. A certain sense of
                        delicacy had kept him from writing to Hannah just yet.
                    When he got to Lewisburg he had good news. His uncle, ashamed of his previous
                        neglect, and perhaps with an eye to his nephew's growing
                        popularity, had got him the charge of the grammar department  in the new graded school in the village. So
                        he quietly arranged to board at a boardinghouse. His aunt could not have him
                        about, of which fact he was very glad. She could not but feel, she said,
                        that he might have taken better care of Walter than he did, when they were
                        only four miles apart.
                    He did not hasten to call on Hannah. Why should he? He sent her a message, of
                        no consequence in itself, by Nancy Sawyer. Then he took possession of his
                        school, and then, on the evening of the first day of school he went, as he
                        had appointed to himself, to see Hannah Thomson.
                    And she, with some sweet presentiment, had got things ready by fixing up the
                        scantily-furnished room as well as she could. And Miss Nancy Sawyer, who had
                        seen Ralph that afternoon, had guessed that he was going to see Hannah.
                        It's wonderful how much enjoyment a generous heart can get out of
                        the happiness of others. Is not that what He meant when he said of such as
                        Miss Sawyer that they should have a hundred-fold in this life for all their
                        sacrifices? Did not Miss Nancy enjoy a hundred weddings and have the love of
                        five hundred children? And so Miss Nancy just happened over at Mrs.
                        Thomson's humble home, and, just in the most matter-of-course way,
                        asked that lady  and Shocky to come over to
                        her house. Shocky wanted Hannah to come too. But Hannah blushed a little,
                        and said that she would rather not.
                    And when she was left alone, Hannah fixed her hair two or three times, and
                        swept the hearth, and moved the chairs first one way and then another, and
                        did a good many other needless things. Needless: for a lover if he be a
                        lover, does not see furniture or dress.
                    And then she sat down by the fire, and tried to sew, and tried to look
                        unconcerned, and tried to feel unconcerned, and tried not to expect anybody,
                        and tried to make her heart keep still. And tried in vain. For a gentle rap
                        at the door sent her burn. And Hartsook was for the first time, abashed in
                        the presence of Hannah. For the oppressed girl had, in two weeks, blossomed
                        out into the full blown woman.
                    And Ralph sat down by the fire, and talked of his school and her school, and
                        everything else but what he wanted to talk about. And then the conversation
                        drifted back to Flat Creek, and to the walk through the pasture, and to the
                        box-elder tree, and to the painful talk in the lane. And Hannah begged to be
                        forgiven, and Ralph laughed at the idea that she had done anything wrong.
                        And she  praised his goodness to Shocky, and
                        he drew her little note out of But I agreed not tell you where he kept it.
                        And then she blushed, and he told how the note had sustrained him, and how
                        her white face kept up his courage in his flight down the bed of Clifty
                        Creek. And he sat a little nearer, to show her the note that he had carried
                        in his bosom I have told it! Andbut I must not proceed. A lovr-scene, ever
                        so beautiful in itself, will not bear telling. And so I shall leave a little
                        gap just here, which you may fill up as you please. . . . somehow, they
                        never knew how, they got to talking about the future instead of the past,
                        after that, and to planning their tow lives as one life. And . . . And when
                        Miss Nanmy and Mrs. Thomson returned later in the evening, Ralph was
                        standing by the mantel piece, but shocky noticed that his chair was close to
                        Hasnnah's. And good Miss Nancy Sawyer looked in Hannah's
                        face and was happy.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV.
                    "HOW IT CAME OUT."
                    WE are all children in reading stories. We want more than
                        all else to know how it all came out at the end, and, if our taste is not
                        perverted, we like it to come out well. For my part, ever since I began to
                        write this story, I have been anxious to know how it was going to come out.
                    Well, there were very few invited. It took place at ten in the morning. The
                        "preacher-in-charge" came, of course. Miss Nancy Sawyer
                        was there. But Ralph's uncle was away, and Aunt Matilda had a sore
                        throat and couldn't come. Perhaps the memory of the fact that she
                        had refused Mrs. Thomson, the pauper, a bed for two nights, affected her
                        throat. But Miss Nancy and her sister were there, and the preacher. And that
                        was all, besides the family, and Bud and Martha. Of course Bud and Martha
                        came. And driving Martha to a wed ding in a "jumper" was
                        the one opportunity Bud needed. His hands were busy, his big boots were out
                        of sight, and it was so easy to slip from Ralph's  love affair to his own, that Bud somehow, in
                        pulling Martha Hawkins's shawl about her, stammered out half a
                        proposal, which Martha, generous soul, took for the whole ceremony, and
                        accepted. And Bud was so happy that Ralph guessed from his face and voice
                        that the agony was over, and Bud was be trothed at last to the "gal
                        as was a gal."
                    And after Ralph and Hannah were marriedthere was no trip, Ralph only changed
                        his boarding-place and became head of the house at Mrs. Thomson's
                        thereafterafter it was all over, Bud came to Mr. Hartsook, and, snickering
                        just a little, said as how as him and Martha had fixed it all up, and now
                        they wanted to ax his advice; and Martha, proud but blushing, came up and
                        nodded assent. Bud said as how as he hadn't got no
                        book-larnin' nor nothin', and as how as he wanted to be
                        some-thin', and put in his best licks fer Him, you know. And that
                        Marthy, she was of the same way of thinkin', and that was a
                        blessin'. And the Squire was a-goin' to marry
                        agin', and Marthy would rather vacate. And his mother and Mirandy
                        was sech as he wouldn't take no wife to. And he thought as how Mr.
                        Hartsook might think of some way or some place where he and Marthy mout make
                        a livin' fer the present, and put in their best licks fer Him, you
                        know,
                    
                    Ralph thought a moment. He was about to make an allusion to Hercules and the
                        Augean stables, but he remembered that Bud would not understand it, though
                        it might remind Martha of something she had seen at the East, the time she
                        was to Bosting.
                    "Bud, my dear friend," said Ralph, "it looks a
                        little hard to ask you to take a new wife "here Bud looked
                        admiringly at Martha" to the poorhouse. But I don't know
                        anywhere where you can do to much good for Christ as by taking charge of
                        that place, and I can get the appointment for you. The new commissioners
                        want just such a man."
                    "What d'ye say, Marthy?" said
                        "Bud."
                    "Why, somebody ought to do for the poor, and I should like to do
                        it."
                    And so Hercules cleaned the Augean stables.
                    And so my humble, homely Hoosier story of twenty years ago1 draws to a close,
                        and not without regrt I take leave of Ralph and Hannah; and Shocky, and Bud,
                        and Martha, and Miss Nancy, and of my readers.
                            1
                            Written in 1871.
                        
                    
                    P. S.A copy of the Lewisburg Jeffersonian came into my
                        hands to-day, and I see by its columns that Ralph Hartsook is principal of
                        the Lewisburg  Academy. It took me some time,
                        however, to make out that the sheriff of the county, Mr. Israel W. Means,
                        was none other than my old friend Bud, of the Church of the Best Licks. I
                        was almost as each puzzled over his name as I was when I saw an article in a
                        city paper, by Prof. W. J. Thomson, on Poor-Houses. I should not have
                        recognized the writer as Shocky, had I not known that Shocky has given his
                        spare time to making outcasts feel that God has not forgot.
                    THE END
                
            
        
    
