
     ----CITATION---- 
        Boyles, Virgil D. (Virgil Dillin) 1872-. Langford of the Three Bars: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3918
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
                LANGFORD OF THE THREE BARS
            
            
            
                
                    "I TAKE IT I AM THE ONE WANTED," SAID WILLISTON.
                    
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    LANGFORD OF THE THREE BARS
                
                BY
                    KATE AND VIRGIL D. BOYLES
                With Illustrations in Color
                     BY N. C. WYETH
                
                    CHICAGO
                    A. C. McCLURG & CO.
                    1907
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT
                     A. C. MCCLURG & Co.
                     1907
                Published April 15, 1907 Entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England
                    All rights reserved Including dramatic rights
                
                Typography by The University Press, Cambridge, U. S. A.
                    Presswork by The Lakeside Press, Chicago, U. S. A.
            
            
            
                TO OUR MOTHER MRS. MARTHA DILLIN BOYLES
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. THE ISLAND WITH A MYSTERY
                        11
                    II. "ON THE TRAIL" 22
                    III. LOUISE
                        31
                    IV. "MAGGOT" 42
                    V. AT THE BON AMI
                        50
                    VI. "NOTHIN' BUT A HOSS THIEF, ANYWAY" 57
                    VII. THE PRELIMINARY
                        62
                    VIII. THE COUNTY ATTORNEY
                        78
                    IX. THE ATTACK ON THE LAZY S 90
                    X. IN WHICH THE X Y Z FIGURES SOMEWHAT
                         MYSTERIOUSLY
                        106
                    XI. "YOU ARETHE BOSS" 121
                    XII. WAITING
                        137
                    XIII. MRS. HIGGINS RALLIES TO HER COLORS
                        150
                    XIV. CHANNEL ICE
                        161
                    XV. THE GAME IS ON
                        175
                    XVI. THE TRIAL
                        181
                    XVII. GORDON RIDES INTO THE COUNTRY
                        194
                    XVIII. FIRE!
                        203
                    XIX. AN UNCONVENTIONAL TEA PARTY
                        214
                    XX. THE ESCAPE
                        224
                    XXI. THE MOVING SHADOW
                        242
                    XXII. THE OUTLAW'S LAST STAND
                        255
                    XXIII. THE PARTY AT THE LAZY S 271
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    "I TAKE IT I AM THE ONE WANTED," SAID
                         WILLISTON
                        
                            Frontispiece
                        
                    
                    THE GLOWING IRON
                            STICK IN HIS HAND, JESSE
                         TURNED AND FACED SQUARELY THE SPOT WHICH HELD
                            THE WATCHING MAN
                        18
                    LOUISE LOVED TO CLIMB
                            TO THE SUMMIT OF
                         ONE OF THE BARREN HILLS FLANKING THE
                         RIVER, AND STAND THERE WHILE THE
                         WIND BLEW
                        146
                    THE LITTLE POSSE
                            STARTED OUT ON ITS JOURNEY,
                            THE WIRY MARSHAL FIRST
                        258
                
            
        
        
            
            
                LANGFORD OF THE THREE BARS
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE ISLAND WITH A MYSTERY
                    HE said positively to Battle Ax, his scraggy buckskin cow pony, that they
                        would ride to the summit of this one bluff, and that it should be the last.
                        But he had said the same thing many times since striking the barren hill
                        region flanking both sides of the river. Hump after hump had been surmounted
                        since the sound of the first promise had tickled the ears of the tired
                        bronco, humps as alike as the two humps of a Bactrian camel, the monotonous
                        continuity of which might very well have confused the mind of one less at
                        home on these ranges than George Williston. Even he, riding a blind trail
                        since sun-up, sitting his saddle with a heavy indifference born of heat and
                        fatigue, began to think it might be that they were describing a circle and
                        the sun was playing them strange tricks. Still, he urged his pony to one
                        more effort; just so much farther and they would retrace their steps, giving
                             up for this day at least the locating of a
                        small bunch of cattle, branded a lazy S, missing these three days.
                    Had not untoward circumstances intervened, he might still have gone blindly
                        on; for, laying aside the gambling fever that was on him, he could ill
                        afford to lose the ten or twelve steers somewhere wandering the wide range
                        or huddled into some safe place, there to abide the time when a daring
                        rustler might conveniently play at witchcraft with the brand or otherwise
                        dispose of them with profit to himself and with credit to his craft.
                        Moreover, what might possibly never have been missed from the vast herds of
                        Langford, his neighbor of the plains country, was of most serious import to
                        Williston for an even weightier reason than the actual present loss.
                    The existence of the small and independent ranchman was becoming precarious.
                        He was being hounded by two prolific sources of trouble, these sources
                        having a power and insolent strength contemptuously indifferent to any claim
                        set up in their paths by one weaker than themselves. On the one hand was the
                        wealthy cattle owner, whose ever-increasing wealth and consequent power was
                        a growing menace to the interests of the small owner whose very bread and
                        butter depended upon his ability to buy and sell to advantage. But with
                        bigger interests slowly but surely gaining control of the markets, who might
                        foretell the future? None beheld the ominous signs more apprehensively than
                        did  Williston, who for more than two years,
                        striving desperately to make good mistakes and misfortunes made back in
                        Iowa, had felt the pinching grow more and more acute. On the other hand was
                        the vicious combination of the boldness, cunning, and greed of the cattle
                        rustlers who harassed all the range country of the Dakotas and Nebraska.
                        Annihilation was the sword of Damocles held over the head of the small
                        ranchman. A hand lifted to avert impending doom would have set the air in
                        vibration and the sword would have fallen. Nemesis was as sure to follow at
                        the hands of the fellowship of rustlers as ever it was at the hands of the
                        Secret Tribunal of old.
                    Williston was chafing under his helplessness as the jaded pony climbed
                        doggedly this last bluff. To the right of his path a hawk was fluttering
                        frantically just above the reach of a basilisk-eyed rattlesnake, whose
                        baneful charm the ill-advised bird was not able to resist.
                    "Devil take you, Battle Ax, but you're slow," muttered Williston, utterly
                        indifferent to the outcome of this battle royal. "I'd give a good deal to
                        sit down this minute to some of my little girl's flapjacks and coffee. But
                        nothing for us, lazy-bones, till midnight or morning, more likely. Do walk
                        up as if you had some little standing in the world of cow ponies. You
                        haven't, of a surety, but you might make an effort. All things are possible
                        to him who tries, you know, which is  a
                        tremendous lie, of course. But perhaps it doesn't apply to poor devils like
                        us who are 'has beens.' Here we are. Ah!"
                    There were no more hills. Almost directly at his feet was one of those
                        precipitous cut-aways that characterize the border bluffs of the Missouri
                        River. A few more steps, in the dark, and horse and rider would have plunged
                        over a sheer wall of nearly two hundred feet. As it was, Williston gave a
                        gasp of involuntary horror which almost simultaneously gave place to one of
                        wonder and astonishment. He had struck the river at a point absolutely new
                        to him. It was the time of low water, and the river, in most of its phases
                        muddy and sullen-looking, gleamed silver and gold with the glitter of the
                        setting sun, making a royal highway to the dwelling-place of Phbus. A little
                        to the north of this sparkling highroad lay what would have been an island
                        in high water, thickly wooded with willows and cotton woods. Now a long
                        stretch of sand reached between bluff and island.
                    Dismounting, with the quick thought that yonder island might hold the secret
                        of his lost cattle, he crept as close to the edge as he dared. The cut was
                        sheer and tawny, entirely devoid of shrubbery by means of which one might
                        hazard a descent. The sand bed began immediately at the foot of the yellow
                        wall. Even though one managed to gain the bottom, one would hardly dare risk
                        the deceitful sands, ever shifting, fair  and
                        treacherous. Baffled, he was on the point of remounting to retrace his steps
                        when he dropped his foot from the stirrup amazed. Was the day of miracles
                        not yet passed?
                    It was the sun, of course. Twelve hours of sun in the eyes could play strange
                        tricks and might even cause a dancing black speck to assume the semblance of
                        a man on horseback, picking his way easily, though mayhap a bit warily,
                        across the waste of sand. He seemed to have sprung from the very bowels of
                        the bluff. Whence else? Many a rod beyond and above the ghostly figure
                        frowned the tawny, wicked cut-away. Path for neither horse nor man appeared
                        so far as eye could reach. It must be the sun. But it was not the sun.
                    Motionless, intent, a figure cast in bronze as the sun went down, the lean
                        ranchman gazed steadfastly down upon the miniature man and horse creeping
                        along so far below. Not until the object of his fixed gaze had been
                        swallowed by the trees and underbrush did his muscles relax. This man had
                        ridden as if unafraid.
                    "What man has done, man can do," ran swiftly through Williston's brain, and
                        with no idea of abandoning his search until he had probed the mystery, he
                        mounted and rode northward, closely examining the edge of the precipice as
                        he went along for any evidence of a possible descent. Presently he came upon
                        a cross ravine, devoid of shrubbery, too steep for a horse, but presenting
                        possibilities for a man. With unerring 
                        instinct he followed the cross-cut westward. Soon a scattering of scrub oaks
                        began to appear, and sumach already streaked with crimson. A little farther
                        and the trees began to show spiral wreaths of woodbine and wild grape. Yet a
                        little farther, and doubtless there would be outlet for horse as well as
                        man.
                    But Williston was growing impatient. Besides, the thought came to him that he
                        had best not risk his buckskin to the unknown dangers of an untried trail.
                        What if he should go lame? Accordingly he was left behind in a slight
                        depression where he would be pretty well hidden, and Williston scrambled
                        down the steep incline alone. When foothold or handhold was lacking, he
                        simply let himself go and slid, grasping the first root or branch that
                        presented itself in his dare-devil course.
                    Arrived at the bottom, he found his clothes torn and his hands bleeding; but
                        that was nothing. With grim determination he made his way through the ravine
                        and struck across the sand trail with a sure realization of his danger, but
                        without the least abatement of his resolution. The sand was firm under his
                        feet. The water had receded a sufficient length of time before to make the
                        thought of quicksands an idle fear. No puff of cloudy smoke leaped from a
                        rifle barrel. If, as he more than half suspected, the island was a
                        rendezvous for cattle thieves, a place surely admirably fitted by nature for
                        such unlawful operations, the rustlers were either  overconfident of the inaccessibility of their retreat and kept
                        no lookout, or they were insolently indifferent to exposure. The former
                        premise was the more likely. A light breeze, born of the afterglow, came
                        scurrying down the river bed. Here and there, where the sand was finest and
                        driest, it rose in little whirlwinds. No sound broke the stillness of the
                        summer evening.
                    What was that? Coyotes barking over yonder across the river? That alien
                        sound! A man's laugh, a curse, a heart-breaking bellow of pain. Williston
                        parted ever so slightly the thick foliage of underbrush that separated him
                        from the all too familiar sounds and peered within.
                    In the midst of a small clearing, man-made, for several stumps were scattered
                        here and there, two men were engaged in unroping and releasing a red steer,
                        similar in all essential respects to a bunch of three or four huddled
                        together a little to one side. They were all choice, well-fed animals, but
                        there were thousands of just such beasts herding on the free ranges. He
                        owned red steers like those, but was there a man in the cattle country who
                        did not? They were impossible of identification without the aid of their
                        brand, and it happened that they were so bunched as to completely baffle
                        Williston in his eager efforts to decipher the stamp that would disclose
                        their ownership. That they were the illegitimate prey of cattle rustlers, he
                        never for one moment doubted. The situation was conclusive.  A bed of glowing embers constantly replenished
                        and kept at white heat served to lighten up the weird scene growing dusky
                        under the surrounding cottonwoods.
                    Williston thought he recognized in one of the men the one who seemed to be
                        directing the procedure of this little affair, whose wide and dirty hat-rim
                        was so tantalizingly drawn over his eyes the solitary rider whose unexpected
                        appearance had so startled him a short time before. Both he and his
                        companion were dressed after the rough, nondescript manner of cattle men,
                        both were gay, laughing and talkative, and seemingly as oblivious to
                        possible danger as if engaged in the most innocent and legitimate
                        business.
                    A little to the left and standing alone was an odd creature of most striking
                        appearance a large, spotted steer with long, peculiar-looking horns. It were
                        quite impossible to mistake such a possession if it had once been yours. Its
                        right side was turned full toward Williston and in the centre of the hip
                        stood out distinctly the cleanly cauterized three perpendicular lines that
                        were the identifying mark of the Three Bars ranch, one of those same big,
                        opulent, self-centred outfits whose astonishingly multiplying sign was
                        becoming such a veritable and prophetic writing on the wall for Williston
                        and his kind.
                    Who then had dared to drive before him an animal so branded? The boldness of
                        the transgression and the insolent indifference to the enormity of attendant
                            
                        
                            THE GLOWING IRON STICK IN HIS
                                    HAND, JESSE TURNED AND FACED SQUARELY THE SPOT WHICH HELD THE WATCHING MAN.
                            
                        
                         consequences held him for the moment
                        breathless. His attention was once more called to the movements of the men.
                        The steer with which they had been working was led away still moaning with
                        surprise and pain, and another brought forward from the reserve bunch. The
                        branded hip, if there was a brand, was turned away from Williston. The
                        bewildered animal was cleverly roped and thrown to the ground. The man who
                        was plainly directing the affair, he of the drooping hat and lazy shoulders,
                        stepped to the fire. Williston held his breath with the intensity of his
                        interest. The man stooped and took an iron from the fire. It was the
                        end-gate rod of a wagon and it was red-hot. In the act of straightening
                        himself from his stooping position, the glowing iron stick in his right
                        hand, he flung from his head with an easy swing the flopping hat that
                        interfered with the nicety of sight requisite in the work he was about to
                        do, and faced squarely that quiet, innocent-looking spot which held the
                        watching man in its brush; and in the moment in which Williston drew hastily
                        back, the fear of discovery beating a tattoo of cold chills down his spine,
                        recognition of the man came to him in a clarifying burst of
                        comprehension.
                    But the man evidently saw nothing and suspected nothing. His casual glance
                        was probably only a manifestation of his habitual attitude of being never
                        off his guard. He approached the prostrate steer with indifference to any
                        meaning that might be attached to the  soft
                        snapping of twigs caused by Williston's involuntary drawing back into the
                        denser shadows.
                    "Y' don't suppose now, do you, that any blamed, interferin' off'cer is
                        a-loafin' round where he oughtn't to be?" said the second man with a
                        laugh.
                    Williston, much relieved, again peered cautiously through the brush. He was
                        confident a brand was about to be worked over. He must see what there was to
                        see.
                    "Easy now, boss," said the second man with an officious warning. He was a
                        big, beefy fellow with a heavy, hardened face. Williston sounded the depths
                        of his memory but failed to place him among his acquaintances in the cow
                        country.
                    "Gamble on me," returned the leader with ready good-nature, "I'll make it as
                        clean as a boiled shirt. I take it you don't know my reputation, pard. Well,
                        you'll learn. You're all right, only a trifle green, that's all."
                    With a firm, quick hand, he began running the searing iron over the right hip
                        of the animal. When he had finished and the steer, released, staggered to
                        its feet, Williston saw the brand clearly. It was J R. If it had been worked
                        over another brand, it certainly was a clean job. He could see no
                        indications of any old markings whatsoever.
                    "Too clean to be worked over a lazy S," thought Williston, "but not over
                        three bars."
                    
                    "There were six reds," said the chief, surveying the remaining bunch with a
                        critical eye. "One must have wandered off while I was gone. Get out there in
                        the brush and round him up, Alec, while I tackle this long-horned
                        gentleman."
                    Williston turned noiselessly away from the scene which so suddenly threatened
                        danger. Both men were fully armed and would brook no eavesdropping. Once
                        more he crossed the sand in safety and found his horse where he had left
                        him, up the ravine. He vaulted into the saddle and galloped away into the
                        quiet night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    "ON THE TRAIL"
                    WILLISTON himself came to the door. His thin, scholarly face looked drawn and
                        worn in the mid-day glare. A tiredness in the eyes told graphically of a
                        sleepless night.
                    "I'm glad to see you, Langford," he said. "It was good of you to come. Leave
                        your horse for Mary. She'll give her water when she's cooled off a bit."
                    "You sent for me, Williston?" asked the young man, rubbing his face
                        affectionately against the wet neck of his mare.
                    "I did. It was good of you to come so soon."
                    "Fortunately, your messenger found me at home. As for the rest, Sade, here,
                        hasn't her beat in the cow country, if she is only a cow pony, eh,
                        Sadie?"
                    At that moment, Mary Williston came into the open doorway of the rude claim
                        shanty set down in the very heart of the sun-seared plain which stretched
                        away into heart-choking distances from every possible point of the compass.
                        And sweet she was to look upon, though tanned and glowing from close
                        association with the ardent sun and riotous wind. Her auburn hair, more
                        reddish on the edges from sunburn, was fine and soft  and there was much of it. It seemed newly brushed and
                        suspiciously glossy. One sees far on the plains, and two years out of
                        civilization are not enough to make a girl forget the use of a mirror, even
                        if it be but a broken sliver, propped up on a pine-board dressing table. She
                        looked strangely grown-up despite her short, rough skirt and badly scuffed
                        leather riding-leggings. Langford stared at her with a startled look of
                        mingled admiration and astonishment. She came forward and put her hand on
                        the mare's bridle. She was not embarrassed in the least. But color came into
                        the stranger's face. He swept his wide hat from his head quickly.
                    "No indeed, Miss Williston; I'll water Sade myself."
                    "Please let me. I'd love to."
                    "She's used to it, Langford," said Williston in his quiet, gentlemanly voice,
                        the well-bred cadence of which spoke of a training far removed from the
                        harassments and harshnesses of life in this plains country. "You see, she is
                        the only boy I have. She must of necessity be my chore boy as well as my
                        herd boy. In her leisure moments she holds down her kitchen claim; I don't
                        know how she does it, but she does. You had better let her do it; she will
                        hold it against you if you don't."
                    "But I couldn't have a woman doing my grooming for me. Why, the very
                        idea!"
                    
                    He sprang into the saddle.
                    "But you waited for me to do it," said the girl, looking up at him
                        curiously.
                    "Did I? I didn't mean to. Yes, I did, too. But I beg your pardon. You see
                        say, look here; are you the 'little girl' who left word for me this
                        morning?"
                    "Yes. Why not?"
                    "Well, you see," smiling, but apologetic, "one of the boys said that
                        Williston's little girl had ridden over and said her father wanted to see me
                        as soon as I could come. So, you see, I thought "
                    "Dad always calls me that, so most of the people around here do, too. It is
                        very silly."
                    "I don't think so at all. I only wonder why I have not known about you
                        before," with a frank smile. "It must be because I've been away so much of
                        the time lately. Why didn't you wait for me?" he asked suddenly. "Ten miles
                        is a sort of a lonesome run for a girl."
                    "I did wait a while," said Mary, honestly, "but you didn't seem in any hurry.
                        I expect you didn't care to be bored that long way with the silly chatter of
                        a 'little girl.'"
                    "Well," said Langford, ruefully, "I'm afraid I did feel a little relieved
                        when I found you had not waited. I never will again. I do beg your pardon,"
                        he called, laughingly, over his shoulder as he galloped away to the
                        spring.
                    
                    When he returned there was no one to receive him but Williston. Together they
                        entered the house. It was a small room into which Langford was ushered. It
                        was also very plain. It was more than that, it was shabby. An easy-chair or
                        two that had survived the wreckage of the house of Williston had been
                        shipped to this "land of promise," together with a few other articles such
                        as were absolutely indispensable. The table was a big shipping box, though
                        Langford did not notice that, for it was neatly covered with a moth-eaten,
                        plum-colored felt cloth. A rug, crocheted out of parti-colored rags, a relic
                        of Mary's conservative and thrifty grandmother, served as a carpet for the
                        living-room. A peep through the open door into the next and only other room
                        disclosed glimpses of matting on the floor. There was a holy place even in
                        this castaway house on the prairie. As the young man's careless eyes took in
                        this new significance, the door closed softly. The "little girl" had shut
                        herself in.
                    The two men sat down at the table. It was hot. They were perspiring freely.
                        The flies, swarming through the screenless doorway, stung disagreeably.
                    Laconically Williston told his story. He wasted no words in the telling. In
                        the presence of the man whose big success made his own pitiful failures
                        incongruous, his sensitive scholar's nature had shut up like a clam.
                    Langford's jaw was set. His young face was tense  with interest. He had thrown his hat on the floor as he came in, as is
                        the way with men who have lived much without women. He had a strong, bronzed
                        face, with dare-devil eyes, blue they were, too, and he had a certain turn
                        of the head, a mark of distinction which success always gives to her sons.
                        He had big shoulders, clad in a blue flannel shirt open at the throat. In
                        his absorption he had forgotten the "little girl" as completely as if she
                        had, in very truth, been the ten-year-old of his imagination. How plainly he
                        could see all the unholy situation, the handful of desperate men perfectly
                        protected on the little island. One man sighting from behind a cottonwood
                        could play havoc with a whole sheriff's posse on that open stretch of
                        sand-bar. Nothing but a surprise and did these insolent men fear surprise?
                        They had laughed at the suggestion of the near presence of an officer of the
                        law. And did they not do well to laugh? Surely it was a joke, a good one,
                        this idea of an officer's being where he was needed in Kemah County.
                    "And my brand was on that spotted steer," he interrupted. "I know the
                        creature know him well. He has a mean eye. Had the gall to dispute the right
                        of way with me once, not so long ago, either. He was in the corral at the
                        time, but he's been on the range all Summer. He may have the evil eye all
                        right, but he's mine, bad eye and all; and what is mine, I will have. And is
                        that the only original brand you saw?"
                    
                    "The only one," quietly, "unless the J R on that red steer when he got up was
                        an original one."
                    "J R? Who could J R be?"
                    "I couldn't say, but the man was Jesse Black."
                    "Jesse Black!"
                    The repeated words were fairly spit out.
                    "Jesse Black! I might have known. Who else bold enough to loot the Three
                        Bars? But his day has come. Not a hair, nor a hide, not a hoof, not tallow
                        enough to fry a flapjack shall be left on the Three Bars before he repents
                        his insolence."
                    "What will you do?" asked Williston.
                    "What will you do?" retorted Langford.
                    "I? What can I do?" in the vague, helpless tone of the dreamer.
                    "Everything if you will," briefly.
                    He snatched up his wide hat.
                    "Where are you going?" asked Williston, curiously.
                    "To see Dick Gordon before this day is an hour older. Will you come
                        along?"
                    "Yees," hesitatingly. "Gordon hasn't made much success of things so far, has
                        he?"
                    "Because you and men like you are under the thumb of men like Jesse Black,"
                        said Langford, curtly. "Afraid to peach for fear of antagonizing the gang.
                        Afraid to vote against the tools of the cattle thieves for fear of
                        antagonizing the gang. Afraid to call your souls your own for fear of
                        antagonizing the gang.  Your 'on the fence'
                        policy didn't work very well this time, did it? You haven't found your
                        cattle, have you? The angel must have forgotten. Thought you were tainted of
                        Egypt, eh?"
                    "It is easy for you to talk," said Williston, simply. "It would be different
                        if your bread and butter and your little girl's as well depended on a
                        scrawny little bunch like mine."
                    "Maybe," said Langford, shrugging his shoulders. "Doesn't seem to have
                        exempted you, though, does it? But Black is no respecter of persons, you
                        know. However, the time has come for Dick Gordon to show of what stuff he is
                        made. It was for this that I worked for his election, though I confess I
                        little thought at the time that proofs for him would be furnished from my
                        own herds. Present conditions humiliate me utterly. Am I a weakling that
                        they should exist? Are we all weaklings?"
                    A faint, appreciative smile passed over Williston's face. No, Langford did
                        not look a weakling, neither had the professed humiliation lowered his proud
                        head. Here was a man a godlike type, with his sunny hair and his great
                        strength. This was the man who had thrown not only the whole weight of his
                        personal influence, which was much, but his whole-hearted and aggressive
                        service as well, into the long and bitter campaign for county sovereignty,
                        and had thus turned the scale in favor of the scarcely hoped-for victory
                        over  the puppet of the cattle rustlers.
                        Williston knew his great object had been to rid the county of its brigands.
                        True it was that this big, ruddy, self-confident ranchman was no
                        weakling.
                    Langford strode to the door. Then he turned quickly.
                    "Look here, Williston, I shall make you angry, I suppose, but it has to go in
                        the cattle country, and you little fellows haven't shown up very white in
                        these deals; you know that yourself."
                    "Well?"
                    "Are you going to stand pat with us?"
                    "If you mean, am I going to tell what I know when called upon," answered
                        Williston, with a simple dignity that made Langford color with sudden shame,
                        "I am. There are many of us 'little fellows' who would have been glad to
                        stand up against the rustling outrage long ago had we received any backing.
                        The moral support of men of your class has not been what you might call a
                        sort of 'on the spot' support, now, has it?" relapsing into a gentle
                        sarcasm. "At least, until you came to the front," he qualified.
                    "You will not be the loser, and there's my hand on it," said Langford,
                        frankly and earnestly, ignoring the latter part of the speech. "The Three
                        Bars never forgets a friend. They may do you before we are through with
                        them, Williston, but remember, the Three Bars never forgets."
                    
                    Braggadocio? Maybe. But there was strength back of it, there was
                        determination back of it, and there was an abiding faith in the power of the
                        Three Bars to make things happen, and a big wrath destined to sleep not nor
                        slumber till some things had happened in the cattle country.
                    Mary Williston, from her window, as is the way with a maid, watched the two
                        horsemen for many a mile as they galloped away. She followed them with her
                        eyes while they slowly became faint, moving specks in the level distance and
                        until they were altogether blotted out, and there was no sign of living
                        thing on the plain that stretched between. But Paul Langford, as is the way
                        with a man, forgot that he had seen a beautiful girl and had thrilled to her
                        glance. He looked back not once as he urged his trusty little mare on to see
                        Dick Gordon.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    LOUISE
                    IT was raining when she left Wind City, but the rain had soon been distanced.
                        Perhaps the Judge was right when he said it never rained north or west of
                        Wind City. But the Judge had not wanted her to go. Neither had the Judge's
                        wife.
                    Full twenty minutes, only day before yesterday, the Judge had delayed his
                        day's outing at the mill where the Jim River doubles right around on its
                        tracks, in order to make it perfectly clear to her that it was absolutely
                        outside of the bounds of her duty, that it was altogether an affair on the
                        side, that she could not be expected to go, and that the prosecuting
                        attorney up there had merely asked her out of courtesy, in deference to her
                        position. Of course he would be glad enough to get her, but let him get some
                        one nearer home, or do without. It wasn't at all necessary for the court
                        reporter to hold herself in readiness to answer the call of anything outside
                        her prescribed circuit duties. To be sure she would earn a trifle, but it
                        was a hard trip, a hard country, and she had much better postpone her
                        initial journey into the unknown until the regular term of court, when he
                        could be with her. He had then  thrown his
                        minnow seine over his shoulders, taken his minnow pail in one hand and his
                        reel case and lunch box in the other, and walked out to the road wagon
                        awaiting him at the gate, and so off to his frolic, leaving her to fight it
                        out for herself.
                    The Judge's wife had not been so diplomatic, not by any means. She had dwelt
                        long and earnestly, and no doubt to a large extent truly, on the uncivilized
                        condition of their neighbors up the line; the roughness of accommodation,
                        the boldness and license of the cowboys, the daring and insolence of the
                        cattle thieves, the cunning and dishonesty of the Indians, and the
                        uncouthness and viciousness of the half-breeds. She had ended by declaring
                        eloquently that Louise would die of lonesomeness if, by God's good
                        providence, she escaped a worse fate at the hands of one or all of the many
                        evils she had enumerated. Yes, it was very evident Aunt Helen had not wanted
                        her to go. But Aunt Helen's real reason had been that she held it so dizzily
                        unconventional for her niece to go out to that wild and unholy land alone.
                        She did not actually fear for her niece's personal safety, and Louise more
                        than half suspected the truth.
                    She had heard all the arguments before. They had little or no terrors for her
                        now. They were the arguments used by the people back in her eastern home,
                        those dear, dear people, her people how far away she was! when they had
                        schemed and plotted so pathetically to keep her with them, the second one to
                        break  away from the slow, safe, and calm
                        traditions of her kin in the place where generation after generation of her
                        people had lived and died, and now lay waiting the Great Judgment in the
                        peaceful country burying-ground.
                    She had listened to them dutifully, half-believingly, swallowed hard and
                        followed her uncle, her father's youngest brother, to the "Land of the
                        Dakotahs," the fair land of promise, right in the face of her fears and the
                        loneliness that loomed before her a thing with smirks and horns and devil's
                        eyes that would not be suppressed, but perched itself insolently before her,
                        a heart-choking presence, magnified by the mist in her eyes, through all the
                        long, long journey to the west country. It had left her for a while when she
                        had crossed the Sioux and was on Dakota soil at last. It was such a glorious
                        land through which she was passing, the fair region of the corn-belt, and
                        such a prosperous land, and the fields spread so broadly. It had been a
                        sunny day with clear skies, one of those days when distances are so infinite
                        in South Dakota, the land of wide-spread spaces. It was indeed a fertile
                        valley through which she was passing. There is none better on earth.
                    When her train had pulled out of Yankton, she reflected with a whimsical
                        smile that she had not yet seen an Indian. To be sure, she had not really
                        expected to see one in feathers and war-paint, but surely an Indian of some
                        description did not the traditions  of her
                        youth run that Dakota was the land of Indians and blizzards? She well
                        remembered indeed, could she ever forget? when, a tot of seven or eight, she
                        had run out into the road to gaze after the carry-all that was taking her
                        well-beloved young uncle away, away, into that dreadful land where blood ran
                        like rivers and where people trimmed their clothes with scalps. She even
                        remembered the feel of the warm, yellow dust up to her bare ankles and the
                        dreadful lump that she couldn't swallow when her uncle leaned out and waved
                        his hat vigorously, crying out gayly:
                    "Good-bye, little girl, good-bye. If they take my scalp, I'll beg them as a
                        special favor to send it back to you as a keepsake. Don't forget to take
                        good care of it. I was always rather proud of my yaller mop."
                    He had said more; he had kept on calling to her till the big woods swallowed
                        him. But she had understood nothing after that last awful charge. It had
                        happened more than fifteen years before, but for many and many a day
                        thereafter, sensitive mite that she had been, she would run and hide in the
                        hay-mow whenever she saw her father or the boys coming from town with the
                        mail. It was years before the horror of the expected packet containing the
                        fair hair of her young uncle, dabbled with blood, fell away from her.
                    Gradually the awfulness of that dread expectation passed away. Now, that same
                        dear uncle was a man of power and position in the new land that had
                        graciously  permitted him his scalp. Only last
                        November he had been relected to his third term on the bench of his circuit
                        with a big, heart-stirring majority. In the day of his prosperity he had not
                        forgotten the little, tangle-haired girl who had cried so inconsolably when
                        he went away, and the unaccountable horror in whose eyes he had tried to
                        laugh away on that never-to-be-forgotten day when he had wrenched his
                        heartstrings from their safe abiding-place and gone forth in quest of the
                        pot of gold at the rainbow's end the first of many generations. Tradition
                        knew no other since his ancestors had felled forests and built homes of hewn
                        logs. Now he had sent for Louise. His court reporter had recently left him
                        for other fields of labor.
                    There was commotion among her people on receipt of the astounding
                        proposition. She lived over again the dark days of the first flitting. It
                        might well be her uncle had exaggerated the dangers of life in the new land.
                        It was great fun to shock his credulous relatives. He had surely written
                        them some enormous tales during those fifteen years and more. He used to
                        chuckle heartily to himself at reading some of the sympathizing replies. But
                        these tales were held in evidence against him now that he dared to want
                        Louise. Every letter was brought out by Louise's dear old grandmother and
                        read to her over again. Louise did not half believe them, but they were
                        gospel truth to her grandmother and almost so to her father and mother as
                        well. She remembered the  old spirit of fun
                        rampant in her favorite uncle, and while his vivid pictures took all the
                        color from her sensitive face, deep down in her heart she recognized them
                        for what they were worth. The letters were a strange medley of grasshoppers,
                        blizzards, and Indians. But a ten-dollar per diem was a great temptation
                        over a five-dollar per diem, and times were pretty hard on the old farm.
                        More than all, the inexplicable something that had led her uncle to throw
                        tradition to the four winds of heaven was calling her persistently and would
                        not be denied. So she had written to him for the truth.
                    "My dear child," he had answered, "I live in a little city whose civilization
                        would make some of our good friends in the old home stare. As for
                        grasshoppers, I believe there was some crazy talk ages ago, but in my day I
                        do well to corner enough scrawny, scared specimens to land a fish in
                        midsummer. Their appalling scarcity is a constant sorrow to me. Makes me
                        plumb mad even yet to think of the hopeless hours I used to spend blistering
                        my nose on White River, dangling for my finny favorite with dough-balls.
                        Dough-balls ugh! 'Send us more grasshoppers, oh, Lord,' is my daily prayer.
                        As for your last question, I cannot answer it so well. Not enjoying the
                        personal acquaintance of many Indians I cannot tell you much about them. I
                        believe there are a few over on the Crow Creek Reservation and perhaps as
                        many on Lower Brule. I wouldn't be positive, but I think so. Occasionally I
                             meet one coining from that direction. I
                        have heard mind, this is only hearsay that there are a handful or so down on
                        the Rosebud Reservation. I wouldn't vouch for it. You can hear most anything
                        in this day and generation. The few I have met seem mild enough. They appear
                        to be rather afraid of me. Their chief occupations seem to be dog-eating and
                        divorce-getting, so you can see for yourself how highly modern and civilized
                        they are becoming. I am sure you will have no trouble."
                    Louise had not altogether believed this rollicking letter, but it had helped
                        her to her decision.
                    Wind City and still no Indians; but there was the dear hero of her childhood.
                        He was much changed to be sure; his big joints had taken on more flesh and
                        he had gained in dignity of deportment what he had lost in ease of movement.
                        His once merry eyes had grown keen with the years of just judging. The lips
                        that had laughed so much in the old days were set in lines of sternness.
                        Judge Hammond Dale was a man who would live up to the tenets of his high
                        calling without fear or favor, through good and evil report. Yet through all
                        his gravity of demeanor and the pride of his integrity, Louise instinctively
                        felt his kindliness and loved him for it. The loneliness fell away from her
                        and a measure of content had come in its place, until the letter had come
                        from the State's attorney up in the Kemah County: 
                        
                            
                                
                                    MY DEAR MISS DALE:
                                    
                                    The eighteenth of August is the date set for the preliminary
                                        hearing of Jesse Black. Will you come and take the
                                        testimony? I am very anxious that the testimony be taken by
                                        a competent reporter and shall be grateful to you if you
                                        decide to come.
                                    The Judge will tell you about our poor accommodations. Let me
                                        recommend to your consideration some good friends of mine,
                                        the Willistons, father and daughter. They live three miles
                                        northwest of Kemah. The Judge will remember Williston,
                                        George Williston of the Lazy S. They are cultured people,
                                        though their way of living is necessarily primitive. I am
                                        sure you will like it better there than at our shabby little
                                        hotel, which is a rendezvous for a pretty rough class of
                                        men, especially at court time.
                                    If you decide to come, Mary Williston will meet you at
                                        Velpen. Please let me know your decision.
                                    Very sincerely, RICHARD GORDON.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    So here she was, going into the Indian country at last. A big State, South
                        Dakota, and the phases of its civilization manifold. Having come so far, to
                        refuse to go on seemed like turning back with her hand already on the
                        plough, so with a stout heart she had wired Richard Gordon that she would
                        go. But it was pretty hard now, to be sure, and pretty dreary, coming into
                        Velpen knowing that she would see no one she knew in all the wide, wide
                        world. The thought choked her and the impish demon, Loneliness, he of the
                        smirk and horns and devil's eyes, loomed leeringly before her  again. Blindly, she picked up her umbrella,
                        suit-case, and rain-coat.
                    "Homesick?" asked the kindly brakeman, with a consolatory grin as he came to
                        assist her with her baggage.
                    She bit her lip in mortification to think she had carried her feelings so
                        palpably on her sleeve. But she nodded honestly.
                    "Maybe it won't be so bad," sympathized the brakeman. His rough heart had
                        gone out to the slim, fair-haired young creature with the vague trouble in
                        her eyes.
                    "Thank you," said Louise, gratefully.
                    There was a moment's bewilderment on the station platform. There was no one
                        anywhere who seemed to be Mary no one who might be looking for her. It was
                        evening, too, the lonesome evening to those away from home, when thoughts
                        stab and memories sap the courage. Some one pushed her rudely aside. She was
                        in the way of the trucks.
                    "Chuck it! None o' your sass, my lad! There's my fist. Heft it if you don't
                        put no stock in its looks. Git out o' this, I say!"
                    The voice was big and convincing. The man wasn't so big, but some way he
                        looked convincing, too. The truckman stepped aside, but with plucky temerity
                        answered back.
                    "Get out yourself! Think you own the whole 
                        cattle country jest 'cause you herd a few ornery, pink-eyed, slab-sided
                        critters for your salt? Well, the railroad ain't the range, le'me tell you
                        that. Jest you run your own affairs, will you?"
                    "Thanky. Glad to. And as my affairs is at present a lady, I'll thank you to
                        jest trundle this here railroad offspring to the back o' this here lady the
                        back, I say back ain't front, is it? Wasn't where I was eddicated. That's
                        better. And ef you ain't satisfied, why, I belong to the Three Bars. Ever
                        hear o' the Three Bars? Ef I'm out, jest leave word with the Boss, will you?
                        He'll see I git the word. Yes, sir, you ol' hoss thief, I belong to the
                        Three Bars."
                    The encounter was not without interested spectators. Louise's brakeman was
                        grinning broadly at the discomfiture of his fellow-employee. Louise herself
                        had forgotten her predicament in the sudden whirlwind of which she was the
                        innocent storm-centre.
                    The cowboy with the temper, having completely routed the enemy to the immense
                        satisfaction of the onlookers, though why, no one knew exactly, nor what the
                        merits of the case, turned abruptly to Louise.
                    "Are you her?" he asked, with a perceptible cooling of his assertive
                        bravado.
                    "I don't know," said Louise, smiling fearlessly at her champion, though
                        inwardly quaking at the intuition that had flashed upon her that this
                        strange, uncouth man had come to take the place of Mary. "The  boldness and license of the cowboys," her aunt
                        had argued. There could be no doubt of the boldness. Would the rest of the
                        statement hold good?
                    "I think maybe I am, though I am Louise Dale, the new court reporter. I
                        expected Miss Mary Williston to meet me."
                    "Then you are her," said the man, with renewed cheerfulness, seizing her
                        suit-case and striding off. "Come along. We'll git some supper afore we
                        start. You're dead tired, more'n likely. It'll be moonlight so't won't
                        matter ef we are late a gittin' home."
                    "Court reporter! I'll be doggoned!" muttered the brakeman. "The new girl from
                        down East. A pore little white lamb among a pack o' wolves and coyotes, and
                        homesick a'ready. No wonder! I'll be takin' you back to-morrow, I'm
                        thinkin', young lady."
                    He didn't know the "little white lamb" who had come to help Paul Langford and
                        Dick Gordon in their big fight.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    "MAGGOT"
                    AN hour prior to this little episode, Jim Munson had sauntered up to the
                        ticket window only to find that the train from the East was forty minutes
                        late. He turned away with a little shrug of relief. It was a foreign role he
                        was playing, this assumption of the duties of a knight in dancing attendance
                        on strange ladies. Secretly, he chafed under it; outwardly, he was
                        magnificently indifferent. He had a reputation to sustain, a reputation of
                        having yet to meet that which would lower his proud boast that he was afraid
                        of nothing under the sun, neither man nor devil. But he doubted his ability
                        so to direct the point of view of the Boss or the Scribe or the rest of the
                        boys of the Three Bars ranch, who were on a still hunt for his spot of
                        vulnerability.
                    The waiting-room was hot, unbearably so to a man who practically lived in the
                        open. He strolled outside and down the tracks. He found himself wishing the
                        train had been on time. Had it been so, it the impending meeting would now
                        have been a thing of the forgotten past. He must needs fortify himself all
                        over again. But sauntering down the track toward the  stockyards, he filled his cob pipe, lighted it, and was
                        comforted. He had a forty-minute reprieve.
                    The boys had tried most valiantly to persuade him to "fix up" for this event.
                        He had scorned them indignantly. If he was good enough as he was black
                        woollen shirt, red neckerchief and all for men, just so was he good enough
                        for any female that ever lived. So he assumed a little swagger as he stepped
                        over the ties, and tried to make himself believe that he was glad he had not
                        allowed himself to be corrupted by proffers of blue shirts and white
                        neckerchiefs.
                    He was approaching the stockyards. There was movement there. Sounds of
                        commands, blows, profane epithets, and worried bawlings changed the placid
                        evening calm into noisy strife. It is always a place interesting to cowmen.
                        Jim relegated thoughts of the coming meeting to the background while he
                        leaned on the fence, and, with idle absorption, watched the loading of
                        cattle into a stock car. A switch engine, steaming and spluttering, stood
                        ready to make way for another car so soon as the present one should be
                        laden. He was not the only spectator. Others were before him. Two men
                        strolled up to the side opposite as he settled down to musing interest.
                    "Gee!" he swore gently under his breath, "ef that ain't Bill Brown! Yep. It
                        is, for a fac'. Wonder what he's a shippin' now for! "He scrambled lightly
                        over the high fence of the pen.
                    
                    "Hullo, there, Bill Brown!" he yelled, genially, making his way as one
                        accustomed through the bunch of reluctant, excited cattle.
                    "Hullo yourself, Jim! What you doin' in town?" responded the man addressed,
                        pausing in his labor to wipe the streaming moisture from his face. He fanned
                        himself vigorously with his drooping hat while he talked.
                    "Gal huntin'," answered Jim, soberly and despondently.
                    "Hell!" Brown surveyed him with astonished but sympathetic approbation.
                        "Hell!" he repeated. "You don't mean it, do you, Jim, honest? Come, now,
                        honest? So you've come to it, at last, have you? Well, well! What's comin'
                        over the Three Bars? What'll the boys say?"
                    He came nearer and lowered his voice to a confidential tone. "Say, Jim, how
                        did it come about? And who's the lady? Lord, Jim, you of all people!" He
                        laughed uproariously.
                    "Aw, come off!" growled Jim, in petulant scorn. "You make me tired! You're
                        plumb luney, that's what you are. I'm after the new gal reporter. She's due
                        on that low-down, ornery train. Wish it was in Kingdom Come. Yep, I do, for
                        a fac'."
                    "Oh, well, never mind! I didn't mean anything," laughed Brown,
                        good-naturedly. "But it does beat the band, Jim, now doesn't it, how you
                        people scare at petticoats. They ain't pizen honest."
                    
                    Jim looked on idly. Occasionally, he condescended to head a rebellious steer
                        shute-wards. Out beyond, it was still and sweet and peaceful, and the late
                        afternoon had put on that thin veil of coolness which is a God-given
                        refreshment after the heat of the day. But here in the pen all was
                        confusion. The raucous cattle-calls of the cowboys smote the evening air
                        startlingly.
                    "Here, Bill Brown!" he exclaimed suddenly, "where did you run across that
                        critter?" He slapped the shoulder of a big, raw-boned, long-eared steer as
                        he spoke. The animal was on the point of being driven up the shute.
                    "What you want to know for?" asked Brown in surprise.
                    "Reason 'nough. That critter belongs to us, that's why; and I want to know
                        where you got him, that's what I want to know."
                    "You're crazy, Jim! Why, I bought that fellow from Jesse Black t' other day.
                        I've got a bill-of-sale for him. I'm shippin' a couple of cars to Sioux City
                        and bought him to send along. That's on the square."
                    "I don't doubt it s' far as you're concerned, Bill Brown," said Jim, "but
                        that's our critter jest the same, and I'll jest tote 'im along 'f you've no
                        objections."
                    "Well, I guess not!" said Brown, laconically.
                    "Look here, Bill Brown," Jim was getting hot-headedly angry, "didn't you know
                        Jesse Black stands  trial to-morrow for
                        rustlin' that there very critter from the Three Bars ranch?"
                    "No, I didn't," Brown answered, shortly. "Any case?"
                    "I guess yes! Williston o' the Lazy S saw this very critter on that island
                        where Jesse Black holds out." He proceeded to relate minutely the story to
                        which Williston was going to swear on the morrow. "But," he concluded,
                        "Jesse's goin' to fight like hell against bein' bound over."
                    "Well, well," said Brown, perplexedly. "But the brand, Jim, it's not yours or
                        Jesse's either."
                    "'Quainted with any J R ranch in these parts?" queried Jim, shrewdly. "I
                        ain't."
                    "Well, neither am I," confessed Brown, "but that's not sayin' there ain't one
                        somewhere. Maybe we can trace it back."
                    "Shucks!" exploded Jim.
                    "Maybe you're right, Jim, but I don't propose to lose the price o' that
                        animal less'n I have to. You can't blame me for that. I paid good money for
                        it. If it's your'n, why, of course, it's your'n. But I want to be sure
                        first. Sure you'd know him, Jim? How could you be so blamed sure? Your boss
                        must range five thousand head."
                    "Know him? Know Mag? I'd know Mag ef my eyes were full o' soundin' cataracts.
                        He's an old and tried friend o'mine. The meanest critter the Lord  ever let live and that's a fac'. But the Boss
                        calls 'im his maggot. Seems to actually churish a kind o' 'fection for the
                        ornery critter, and says the luck o' the Three Bar would sort o' peak and
                        pine ef he should ever git rid o' the pesky brute. Maybe he's right.
                        Leastwise, the critter's his, and when a thing's yours, why, it's yours and
                        that's all there is about it. By cracky, the Boss is some mad! You'd think
                        him and that walleyed, cross-grained son-of-a-gun had been kind and lov-in'
                        mates these many years. Well, I ain't met up with this ornery critter for
                        some time. Hullo there, Mag! Look kind o' sneakin', now, don't you, wearin'
                        that outlandish and unbeknownst J R?"
                    Bill Brown thoughtfully surveyed the steer whose ownership was thus so
                        unexpectedly disputed.
                    "You hold him," insisted Jim. "Ef he ain't ours, you can send him along with
                        your next shipment, can't you? What you wobblin' about? Ain't afraid the
                        Boss'll claim what ain't his, are you, Bill Brown?"
                    "Well, I can't he'p myself, I guess," said Brown, in a tone of voice which
                        told plainly of his laudable effort to keep his annoyance in subjection to
                        his good fellowship. "You send Langford down here first thing in the
                        morning. If he says the critter's his 'n, that ends it."
                    Now that he had convinced his quondam acquaintance, the present shipper, to
                        his entire satisfaction, Jim glanced at his watch with ostentatious ease.
                        His time  had come. If all the minutes of all
                        the time to come should be as short as those forty had been, how soon he,
                        Jim Munson, cow-puncher, would have ridden them all into the past. But his
                        "get away" must be clean and dignified.
                    "Likely bunch you have there," he said, casually, turning away with unassumed
                        reluctance.
                    "Fair to middlin'," said Brown with pride.
                    "Shippin' to Sioux City, you said?"
                    "Yep."
                    "Well, so long."
                    "So long. Shippin' any these days, Jim?"
                    "Nope. Boss never dribbles 'em out. When he ships he ships. Ain't none gone
                        over the rails since last Fall."
                    He stepped off briskly and vaulted the fence with as lightsome an air as
                        though he were bent on the one errand his heart would choose, and swung up
                        the track carelessly humming a tune. But he had a vise-like grip on his cob
                        pipe. His teeth bit through the frail stem. It split. He tossed the remains
                        away with a gesture of nervous contempt. A whistle sounded. He quickened his
                        pace. If he missed her, well, the Boss was a good fellow, took a lot of
                        nonsense from the boys, but there were things he would not stand for. Jim
                        did not need to be told that this would be one of them.
                    The platform was crowded. The yellow sunlight fell slantingly on the gay
                        groups.
                    
                    "Aw, Munson, you're bluffin'," jested the mail carrier. "You ain't lookin'
                        fer nobody; you know you ain't. You ain't got no folks. Don't believe you
                        never had none. Never heard of 'em."
                    "Lookin' for my uncle," explained Jim, serenely. "Rich old codger from the
                        State o' Pennsylvaney some'ers. Ain't got nobody but me left."
                    "Aw, come off! What you givin' us?"
                    But Jim only winked and slouched off, prime for more adventures. He was
                        enjoying himself hugely, when he was not thinking of petticoats.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    AT THE BON AMI
                    UNLIKE most of those who ride much, her escort was a fast walker. Louise had
                        trouble in keeping up with him, though she had always considered herself a
                        good pedestrian. But Jim Munson was laboring under strange embarrassment. He
                        was red-facedly conscious of the attention he was attracting striding up the
                        inclined street from the station in the van of the prettiest and most
                        thoroughbred girl who had struck Velpen this long time.
                    Not that he objected to attention under normal conditions. Not he! He courted
                        it. His chief aim in life seemed to be to throw the limelight of publicity,
                        first, on the Three Bars ranch, as the one and only in the category of
                        ranches, and to be connected with it in some way, however slight, the
                        unquestioned aim and object of existence of every man, woman, and child in
                        the cattle country; secondly, on Paul Langford, the very boss of bosses,
                        whose master mind was the prop and stay of the Northwest, if not of all
                        Christendom; and lastly upon himself, the modest, but loyal servitor in this
                        Paradise on earth. But girls were far from normal conditions. There were no
                        women at the Three Bars. There never  had been
                        any woman at the Three Bars within the memory of man. To be sure,
                        Williston's little girl had sometimes ridden over on an errand, but she
                        didn't count. This this was the real thing, and he didn't know just how to
                        deal with it. He needed time to enlarge his sight to this broadened
                        horizon.
                    He glanced with nonchalance over his shoulder. After all, she was only a
                        girl, and not such a big one either. She wore longer skirts than Williston's
                        girl, but he didn't believe she was a day older. He squared about
                        immediately, and what he had meant to say he never said, on account of an
                        unaccountable thickening of his tongue.
                    Presently, he bolted into a building, which proved to be the Bon Ami, a
                        restaurant under the direct supervision of the fat, voluble, and tragic Mrs.
                        Higgins, where the men from the other side of the river had right of way and
                        unlimited credit.
                    "What'll you have?" he asked, hospitably, the familiar air of the Bon Ami
                        bringing him back to his accustomed self-confident swagger.
                    "Might I have some tea and toast, please?" said Louise, sinking into a chair
                        at the nearest table, with two startling yet amusing thoughts rampant in her
                        brain. One was, that she wished Aunt Helen could have seen her swinging
                        along in the wake of this typical "bold and licentious" man, and calmly and
                        comfortably sitting down to a cosey little supper for two at a public  eating house; the other startling thought was
                        to the effect that the invitation was redolent with suggestiveness, and she
                        wondered if she was not expected to say, "A whiskey for me, please."
                    "Guess you kin," answered Jim, wonder in his voice at the exceeding
                        barrenness of the order. "Mrs. Higgins, hello there, Mrs. Higgins! I say,
                        there, bring on some tea and toast for the lady!"
                    "Where is the Three Bars?" asked Louise, her thoughts straying to the terrors
                        of a fifteen-mile drive through a strange and uncanny country with a
                        stranger and yet more uncanny man. She had accepted him without question. He
                        was part and parcel with the strangeness of her new position. But the
                        suddenness of the transition from idle conjecture to startling reality had
                        raised her proud head and she looked this new development squarely in the
                        face without outward hint of inward perturbation.
                    "Say, where was you raised?" asked Jim, with tolerant scorn, between huge
                        mouthfuls of boiled pork and cabbage, interspersed with baked potatoes, hot
                        rolls, and soggy dumplings, shovelled in with knife, fork, or spoon. He
                        occasionally anticipated dessert by making a sudden sortie into the quarter
                        of an immense custard pie, hastening the end by means of noisy draughts of
                        steaming coffee. Truly, the Three Bars connection had the fat of the land at
                        the Bon Ami.
                    "Why, it's the Three Bars that's bringin' you here.  didn't you know that? There's nary a man in the hull country
                        with backbone enough to keep him off all-fours 'ceptin' Paul Langford. Um.
                        You just try once to walk over the Boss, will you? Lord! What a grease spot
                        you'd make!"
                    "Mr. Gordon isn't being walked over, is he?" asked Louise, finished with her
                        tea and toast and impatient to be off.
                    "Oh, Gordon? Pretty decent sort o' chap. Right idees. Don't know much about
                        handlin' hoss thieves and sich. Ain't smooth enough. Acted kind o' like a
                        chicken with its head cut off till the Boss got into the roundup."
                    "Oh!" said Louise, whose conception of the young counsel for the State did
                        not tally with this delineation.
                    "Yep, Miss, this here's the Boss's doin's. Yep. Lord! What'll that gang look
                        like when we are through with 'em? Spendin' the rest o' their days down
                        there in Sioux Falls, meditatin' on the advisability o' walkin' clear o' the
                        toes o' the Three Bars in the future and cussin' their stupendified
                        stupidity in foolin' even once with the Three Bars. Yep, sir yep, ma'am, I
                        mean, Jesse Black and his gang have acted just like pesky, little plum'-fool
                        moskeeters, and we're goin' to slap 'em. The cheek of 'em, lightin' on the
                        Three Bars! Lord!"
                    "Mr. Williston informed, did he not?"
                    "Williston? Oh, yes, he informed, but he'd never  'a' done it if it hadn't 'a' been for the Boss. The ol' jellyfish
                        wouldn't 'a' had the nerve to inform without backin', as sure as a stone
                        wall. The Boss is a doin' this, I tell you, Miss. But Williston's a goin' on
                        the stand to-morrer all right, and so am I."
                    The two cowboys at the corner table had long since finished their supper.
                        They now lighted bad-smelling cigars and left the room. To Louise's great
                        relief, Munson rose, too. He was back very soon with a neat little runabout
                        and a high-spirited team of bays.
                    "Boss's private," explained Jim with pride. "Nothin' too good for a lady, so
                        the Boss sent this and me to take keer o' it. And o' you, too, Miss," he
                        added, as an afterthought.
                    He held the lines in his brown, muscular hands, lovingly, while he stowed
                        away Louise's belongings and himself snugly in the seat, and then the blood
                        burned hot and stinging through his bronzed, tough skin, for suddenly in his
                        big, honest, untrained sensibilities was born the consciousness that the
                        Boss would have stowed away the lady first. It was an embarrassing moment.
                        Louise saved the day by climbing in unconcernedly after him and tucking the
                        linen robe over her skirt.
                    "It will be a dusty drive, won't it?" she asked, simply.
                    "Miss, you're a dandy," said Jim as simply.
                    As they drove upon the pontoon bridge, Louise looked back at the little town
                        on the bluffs, and felt a  momentary choking in
                        her throat. It was a strange place, yet it had tendrils reaching homeward.
                        The trail beyond was obscurely marked and not easy to discern. She turned to
                        her companion and asked quickly:
                    "Why didn't Mary come?"
                    "Great guns! Did I forgit to tell you? Williston's got the stomach-ache to
                        beat the band and Mary's got to physic him up 'gin to-morrer. We've got to
                        git him on that stand if it takes the hull Three Bars to hol' him up and the
                        gal a pourin' physic down him between times. Yep, Ma'am. He was pizened. You
                        see, everybody that ate any meat last night was took sick with gripin'
                        cramps, yep; but Williston he was worse'n all, he bein' a hearty eater. He
                        was a stayin' in town over night on this preliminary business, and Dick
                        Gordon he was took, too, but not so bad, bein' what you might call a light
                        eater. The Boss and me we drove home after all, though we'd expected to stay
                        for supper. The pesky coyotes got fooled that time. Yep, Ma'am, no doubt
                        about it in the world. Friends o' Jesse's that we ain't able to lay hands on
                        yit pizened that there meat. Yep, no doubt about it. Dick was in an awful
                        sweat about you. Was bound he was a comin' after you hisself, sick as he
                        was, when we found Mary was off the count. So then the Boss was a comin' and
                        they fit and squabbled for an hour who could be best spared, when I, comin'
                        in, settled it in a jiffy by offerin' my services, which was gladly
                        accepted. When there's  pizenin' goin' on, why,
                        the Boss's place is hum. And nothin' would do but the Boss's own particular
                        outfit. He never does things by halves, the Boss don't. So I hikes home
                        after it and then hikes here."
                    "I am very grateful to him, I am sure," murmured Louise, smiling.
                    And Jim, daring to look upon her smiling face, clear eyes, and soft hair
                        under the jaunty French sailor hat, found himself wondering why there was no
                        woman at the Three Bars. With the swift, half-intuitive thought, the serpent
                        entered Eden.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    "NOTHIN' BUT A HOSS THIEF, ANYWAY"
                    THE island teemed with early sunflowers and hints of goldenrod yet to come.
                        The fine, white, sandy soil deadened the sound of the horses' hoofs. They
                        seemed to be spinning through space. Under the cottonwoods it grew dusky and
                        still.
                    At the toll house a dingy buckboard in a state of weird dilapidation, with a
                        team of shaggy buckskin ponies, stood waiting. Jim drew up. Two men were
                        lounging in front of the shanty, chatting to the toll-man.
                    "Hello, Jim!" called one of them, a tall, slouching fellow with sandy
                        coloring.
                    "Now, how the devil did you git so familiar with my name?" growled Jim.
                    "The Three Bars is gettin' busy these days," spoke up the second man, with an
                        insolent grin.
                    "You bet it is," bragged Jim. "When the off'cers o' the law git to sleepin'
                        with hoss thieves and rustlers, and take two weeks to arrest a bunch of 'em,
                        when they know prezactly where they keep theirselves, and have to have
                        special deputies app'inted over 'em five or six times and then let most o'
                        the bunch slip through their  fingers, it's
                        time for some one to git busy. And when Jesse Black and his gang are so
                        desp'rit they pizen the chief witnesses"
                    A gentle pressure on his arm stopped him. He turned inquiringly.
                    "I wouldn't say any more," whispered Louise. "Let's get on."
                    The hint was sufficient, and with the words, "Right you are, Miss Reporter,
                        we'll be gittin' on," Jim paid his toll and spoke to his team.
                    "Just wait a bit, will you?" spoke up the sandy man.
                    "What for?"
                    "We're not just ready."
                    "Well, we are," shortly.
                    "We aren't, and we don't care to be passed, you know."
                    He spoke indifferently. In deference to Louise, Jim waited. The men smoked on
                        carelessly. The toll-man fidgeted.
                    "You go to hell! The Three Bars ain't waitin' on no damned hoss thieves,"
                        said Jim, suddenly.
                    His nervous team sprang forward. Quick as a flash the sandy man was in the
                        buckboard. He struck the bays a stinging blow with his rawhide, and as they
                        swerved aside he swung into the straight course to the narrow bridge of
                        boats. In another moment the way would be blocked. With a burning oath Jim,
                        keeping to the side of the steep incline till the river mire cut  him off, deliberately turned his stanch little
                        team squarely, and crowded them forward against the shaggy buckskins. It was
                        team against team. Louise, clinging tightly to the seat, lips pressed
                        together to keep back any sound, felt a wild, inexplicable thrill of
                        confidence in the strength of the man beside her.
                    The bays were pitifully, cruelly lashed by the enraged owner of the
                        buckskins, but true as steel to the familiar voice that had guided them so
                        often and so kindly, they gave not nor faltered. There was a snapping of
                        broken wood, a wrench, a giving way, and the runabout sprang over debris of
                        broken wheel and wagon-box to the narrow confines of the pontoon bridge.
                    "The Three Bars is gettin' busy!" gibed Jim over his shoulder.
                    "It's a sorry day for you and yours," cried the other, in black and ugly
                        wrath.
                    "We ain't afeared. Your're nothin' but a hoss thief, anyway!" responded Jim,
                        gleefully, as a parting shot.
                    "Now what do you suppose was their game?" he asked of the girl at his
                        side.
                    "I don't know," answered Louise, thoughtfully. "But I thought it not wise to
                        say too much to them. You are a witness, I believe you said."
                    "Then you think they are part o' the gang?"
                    "I consider them at least sympathizers, don't you? They seemed down on the
                        Three Bars."
                    
                    In the Indian country at last. Mile after mile of level, barren stretches
                        after the hill region had been left behind. Was there no end to the
                        thirst-inspiring, monotonous, lonely reach of cacti? Prairie dogs, perched
                        in front of their holes, chattered and scolded at them. The sun went down
                        and a refreshing coolness crept over the hard, baked earth. Still, there was
                        nothing but distance anywhere in all the land, and a feeling of desolation
                        swept over the girl.
                    The air of August was delicious now that night was coming on. There was no
                        wind, but the swift, unflagging pace of the Boss's matched team made a stiff
                        breeze to play in their faces. It was exhilarating. The list-lessness and
                        discouragement of the day were forgotten. Throwing her rain-coat over her
                        shoulders, Louise felt a clumsy but strangely gentle hand helping to draw it
                        closer around her. Someway the action, simple as it was, reminded her of the
                        look in that brakeman's eyes, when he had asked her if she were homesick.
                        Did this man think she was homesick, too? She was grateful; they were very
                        kind. What a lot of good people there were in the world! Now, Jim Munson did
                        not call her "little white lamb" to himself, the metaphor never entered his
                        mind; but in his big, self-confident heart he did feel a protecting
                        tenderness for her. She was not like any woman he had ever seen, and it was
                        a big, lonesome country for a slip of a girl like her.
                    The moon came up. Then there were miles of white  moonlight and lonely plain. But for some time now there has been a light
                        in front of them. It is as if it must be a will-o'-the-wisp. They never seem
                        to get to it. But at last they are there. The door is wide open. A pleasant
                        odor of bacon and coffee is wafted out to the tired travellers.
                    "Come right in," says the cheery voice of Mary. "How tired you must be, Miss
                        Dale. Tie up, Jim, and come in and eat something before you go. Well, you
                        can eat again two suppers won't hurt you. I have kept things warm for you.
                        Your train must have been late. Yes, Dad is better, thank you. He'll be all
                        right in the morning."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    THE PRELIMINARY
                    VERY early in the morning of the day set for the preliminary hearing of Jesse
                        Black, the young owner of the Three Bars ranch rode over to Vel-pen. He
                        identified and claimed the animal held over from shipment by Jim's
                        persuasion. Brown gave possession with a rueful countenance.
                    "First time Billy Brown ever was taken in," he said, with great disgust.
                    Langford met with no interruption to his journey, either going or coming,
                        although that good cow-puncher of his, Jim Munson, had warned him to look
                        sharp to his pistols and mind the bridge. Jim being of a somewhat
                        belligerent turn of mind, his boss had not taken the words with much
                        seriousness. As for the fracas at the pontoon, cowmen are touchy when it
                        comes to a question of precedence, and it might well be that the inflammable
                        Jim had brought the sudden storm down on his head. Paul Langford rode
                        through the sweet early summer air without let or hindrance and looking for
                        none. He was jubilant. Now was Williston's story verified. The county
                        attorney, Richard Gordon, had considered Williston's story, coupled with  his reputation for strict honesty, strong and
                        sufficient enough to bind Jesse Black over to appear at the next regular
                        term of the circuit court. Under ordinary circumstances, the State really
                        had an excellent chance of binding over; but it had to deal with Jesse
                        Black, and Jesse Black had flourished for many years west of the river with
                        an unsavory character, but with an almost awesome reputation for the
                        phenomenal facility with which he slipped out of the net in which the law in
                        the person of its unpopular exponent, Richard Gordon was so indefatigably
                        endeavoring to enmesh him. The State was prepared for a hard fight. But now
                        here was the very steer Williston saw on the island with its Three Bars
                        brand under Black's surveillance. Williston would identify it as the same.
                        He, Langford, would swear to his own animal. The defence would not know he
                        had regained possession and would not have time to readjust its evidence. It
                        would fall down and hurt itself for the higher court, and Dick Gordon would
                        know how to use any inadvertencies against it when the time came. No wonder
                        Langford was light-hearted. In all his arrogant and unhampered career, he
                        had never before received such an affront to his pride and his sense of what
                        was due to one of the biggest outfits that ranged cattle west of the river.
                        Woe to him who had dared tamper with the concerns of Paul Langford of the
                        Three Bars.
                    Williston drove in from the Lazy S in ample time for  the mid-day dinner at the hotel the hearing was set for two
                        o'clockbut his little party contented itself with a luncheon prepared at
                        home, and packed neatly and appetizingly in a tin bucket. It was not likely
                        there would be a repetition of bad meat. It would be poor policy. Still, one
                        could not be sure, and it was most important that Williston ate no bad meat
                        that day.
                    Gordon met them in the hot, stuffy, little parlor of the hotel.
                    "It was good of you to come," he said to Louise, with grave sincerity.
                    "I didn't want to," confessed Louise, honestly. "I'm afraid it is too big and
                        lonesome for me. I am sure I should have gone back to Velpen last night to
                        catch the early train had it not been for Mary. She is so good."
                    "The worst is over now that you have conquered your first impulse to fly," he
                        said.
                    "I cried, though. I hated myself for it, but I couldn't help it. You see I
                        never was so far from home before."
                    He was an absorbed, hard-working lawyer. Years of contact with the plain,
                        hard realities of rough living in a new country had dried up, somewhat, his
                        stream of sentiment. Maybe the source was only blocked with debris, but
                        certainly the stream was running dry. He could not help thinking that a girl
                        who cries because  she is far from home had
                        much better stay at home and leave the grave things which are men's work to
                        men. But he was a gentleman and a kindly one, so he answered, quietly, "I
                        trust you will like us better when you know us better," and, after a few
                        more commonplaces, went his way.
                    "There's a man," said Louise, thoughtfully, on the way to McAllister's
                        office. "I like him, Mary."
                    "And yet there are men in this county who would kill him if they dared."
                    "Mary! what do you mean? Are there then so many cut-throats in this awful
                        country?"
                    "I think there are many desperate men among the rustlers who would not
                        hesitate to kill either Paul Langford or Richard Gordon since these
                        prosecutions have begun. There are also many good people who think Mr.
                        Gordon is just stirring up trouble and putting the county to expense when he
                        can have no hope of conviction. They say that his failures encourage the
                        rustlers more than an inactive policy would."
                    "People who argue like that are either tainted with dishonesty themselves or
                        they are foolish, one of the two," said Louise, with conviction.
                    "Mr. Gordon has one stanch supporter, anyway," said Mary, smiling. "Maybe I
                        had better tell him. Precious little encouragement or sympathy he gets, poor
                        fellow."
                    "Please do not," replied Louise, quickly. "I wonder  if my friend, Mr. Jim Munson, has managed to escape 'battle,
                        murder, and sudden death,' including death by poison, and is on hand with
                        his testimony."
                    As they approached the office, the crowd of men around the doorway drew aside
                        to let them pass.
                    "Our chances of worming ourselves through that jam seem pretty slim to me,"
                        whispered Mary, glancing into the already overcrowded room.
                    "Let me make a way for you," said Paul Langford, as he separated himself from
                        the group of men standing in front, and came up to them.
                    "I have watered my horse," he said, flashing a merry smile at Mary as he
                        began shoving his big shoulders through the press, closely followed by the
                        two young women.
                    It was a strange assembly through which they pressed; ranchmen and cowboys,
                        most of them, just in from ranch and range, hot and dusty from long riding,
                        perspiring freely, redolent of strong tobacco and the peculiar smell that
                        betokens recent and intimate companionship with that part and parcel of the
                        plains, the horse. The room was indeed hot and close and reeking with bad
                        odors. There were also present a large delegation of cattle dealers and
                        saloon men from Velpen, and some few Indians from Rosebud Agency, whose
                        curiosity was insatiable where the courts were concerned, far from
                        picturesque in their ill-fitting, nondescript cowboy garments.
                    
                    Yet they were kindly, most of the men gathered there. Though at first they
                        refused, with stolid resentment, to be thus thrust aside by the breezy and
                        aggressive owner of the Three Bars, planting their feet the more firmly on
                        the rough, uneven floor, and serenely oblivious to any right of way so
                        arrogantly demanded by the big shoulders, yet, when they perceived for whom
                        the way was being made, most of them stepped hastily aside with muttered and
                        abashed apologies. Here and there, however, though all made way, there would
                        be no red-faced or stammering apology. Sometimes the little party was
                        followed by insolent eyes, sometimes by malignant ones. Had Mary Williston
                        spoken truly when she said the will for bloodshed was not lacking in the
                        county?
                    But if there was aught of hatred or enmity in the heavy air of the improvised
                        court-room for others besides the high-minded young counsel for law and
                        order, Mary Williston seemed serenely unconscious of it. She held her head
                        proudly. Most of these men she knew. She had done a man's work among them
                        for two years and more. In her man's work of riding the ranges she had had
                        good fellowship with many of them. After today much of this must end. Much
                        blame would accrue to her father for this day's work, among friends as well
                        as enemies, for the fear of the law-defiers was an omnipresent fear with the
                        small owner, stalking abroad by day and by night. But Mary was glad and
                        there was  a new dignity about her that became
                        her well, and that grew out of this great call to rally to the things that
                        count.
                    At the far end of the room they found the justice of the peace enthroned
                        behind a long table. His Honor, Mr. James R. McAllister, more commonly known
                        as Jimmie Mac, was a ranchman on a small scale. He was ignorant, but of an
                        overweening conceit. He had been a justice of the peace for several years,
                        and labored under the mistaken impression that he knew some law; but Gordon,
                        on short acquaintance, had dubbed him "Old Necessity," in despairing irony,
                        after a certain high light of early territorial days who "knew no law."
                        Instead of deciding the facts in the cases brought before him from the point
                        of view of an ordinary man of common sense, McAllister went on the theory
                        that each case was fraught with legal questions upon which the result of the
                        case hung; and he had a way of placing himself in the most ridiculous lights
                        by arguing long and arduously with skilled attorneys upon questions of law.
                        He made the mistake of always trying to give a reason for his rulings. His
                        rulings, sometimes, were correct, but one would find it hard to say the same
                        of his reasons for them.
                    Louise's little table was drawn closely before the window nearest the court.
                        She owed this thoughtfulness to Gordon, who, nevertheless, was not in
                        complete sympathy with her, because she had cried. The table was  on the sunny side, but there was a breeze out
                        of the west and it played refreshingly over her face, and blew short strands
                        of her fair hair there also. To Gordon, wrapped up as he was in graver
                        matters, her sweet femininity began to insist on a place in his mental as
                        well as his physical vision. She was exquisitely neat and trim in her white
                        shirt-waist with its low linen collar and dark blue ribbon tie of the same
                        shade as her walking skirt, and the smart little milliner's bow on her
                        French sailor hat, though it is to be doubted if Gordon observed the
                        harmony. She seemed strangely out of place in this room, so bare of comfort,
                        so stuffy and stenchy and smoke-filled; yet, after all, she seemed perfectly
                        at home here. The man in Gordon awoke, and he was glad she had not stayed at
                        home or gone away because she cried.
                    Yes, Jim was there and swaggering. It was impossible for Jim not to swagger a
                        little on any occasion. The impulse to swagger had been born in him. It had
                        been carefully nurtured from the date of his first connection with the Three
                        Bars. He bestowed an amiable grin of recognition on the new reporter from
                        the far side of the room, which was not very far.
                    The prisoner was brought in. His was a familiar personality. He was known to
                        most men west of the river if not by personal acquaintance, certainly by
                        hearsay. Many believed him to be the animating mind of a notorious gang of
                        horse thieves and cattle rustlers  that had
                        been operating west of the river for several years. Lax laws were their
                        nourishment. They polluted the whole. It was a deadly taint to fasten itself
                        on men's relations. Out of it grew fear, bribery, official rottenness,
                        perjury. There was an impudent half smile on his lips. He was a tall, lean,
                        slouching-shouldered fellow. To-day, his jaws were dark with beard bristles
                        of several days' standing. He bore himself with an easy, indifferent manner,
                        and chewed tobacco enjoyingly.
                    Louise, glancing casually around at the mass of interested, sunbrowned faces,
                        suddenly gave a little start of surprise. Not far in front of Jimmie Mac's
                        table stood the man of the sandy coloring who had so insolently disputed
                        their right of way the day before. His hard, light eyes, malignant,
                        sinister, significant, were fixed upon the prisoner as he slouched forward
                        to hear his arraignment. The man in custody yawned occasionally. He was
                        bored. His whole body had a lazy droop. So far as Louise could make out he
                        gave no sign of recognition of the man of sandy coloring.
                    Then came the first great surprise of this affair of many surprises. Jesse
                        Black waived examination. It came like a thunderbolt to the prosecution. It
                        was not Black's way of doing business, and it was generally believed that,
                        as Munson had so forcibly though inelegantly expressed it to Billy Brown,
                        "He would fight like hell" to keep out of the circuit courts. He would kill
                        this incipient Nemesis in the bud. What, then, had  changed him? The county attorney had rather looked for a
                        hard-fought defence a shifting of the burden of responsibility for the
                        misbranding to another, who would, of course, be off somewhere on a business
                        trip, to be absent an indefinite length of time; or it might be he would try
                        to make good a trumped-up story that he had but lately purchased the animal
                        from some Indian cattle-owner from up country who claimed to have a
                        bill-of-sale from Langford. He would not have been taken aback had Black
                        calmly produced a bill-of-sale.
                    There were lines about the young attorney's mouth, crow's feet diverging from
                        his eyes; his forehead was creased, too. He was a tall man, slight of build,
                        with drooping shoulders. One of the noticeable things about him was his
                        hands. They were beautiful the long, slim, white kind that attract
                        attention, not so much, perhaps, on account of their graceful lines, as
                        because they are so seldom still. They belong preminently to a nervous
                        temperament. Gordon had trained himself to immobility of expression under
                        strain, but his hands he had not been able so to discipline. They were
                        always at something, fingering the papers on his desk, ruffling his hair, or
                        noisily drumming. Now he folded them as if to coerce them into quiet. He had
                        handsome eyes, also, too keen, maybe, for everyday living; they would be
                        irresistible if they caressed.
                    The absoluteness of the surprise flushed his clean-shaven face a little,
                        although his grave immobility of  expression
                        underwent not a flicker. It was a surprise, but it was a good surprise.
                        Jesse Black was bound over under good and sufficient bond to appear at the
                        next regular term of the circuit court in December. That much accomplished,
                        now he could buckle down for the big fight. How often had he been
                        shipwrecked in the shifting sands of the really remarkable decisions of "Old
                        Necessity" and his kind. This time, as by a miracle, he had escaped sands
                        and shoals and sunken rocks, and rode in deep water.
                    A wave of enlightenment swept over Jim Munson.
                    "Boss," he whispered, "that gal reporter's a hummer."
                    "How so?" whispered Langford, amused. He proceeded to take an interested, if
                        hasty, inventory of her charms. "What a petite little personage, to be sure!
                        Almost too colorless, though. Why, Jim, she can't hold a tallow candle to
                        Williston's girl."
                    "Who said she could?" demanded Jim, with a fine scorn and much relieved to
                        find the Boss so unappreciative. Eden might not be lost to them after all.
                        Strict justice made him add: "But she's a wise one. Spotted them blamed
                        meddlin' hoss thieves right from the word go. Yep. That's a fac'."
                    "What 'blamed meddlin' hoss thieves,' Jim? You are on intimate terms with so
                        many gentlemen of that stripe, at least your language so leads us to
                        presume, that I can't keep up with the procession."
                    
                    "At the bridge yistidy. I told you 'bout it. Saw 'em first at the Bon Amy but
                        they must a trailed me to the stockyards. She spotted 'em right away. She's
                        a cute 'n. Made me shet my mouth when I was a blabbin' too much, jest before
                        the fun began. Oh, she's a cute'n!"
                    "Who were they, Jim?"
                    "One of 'em, I'm a thinkin', was Jake Sanderson, a red-headed devil who came
                        up here from hell, I reckon, or Wyoming, one of the two. Nobody knows his
                        biz. But he'll look like a stepped-on potato bug 'gainst I git through with
                        him. didn't git on to t' other feller. Will next time, you bet!"
                    "But what makes you think they are mixed up in this affair?"
                    "They had their eyes on me to see what I was a doin' in Velpen. And I was a
                        doin' things, too."
                    Langford gave a long, low whistle of comprehension. That would explain the
                        unexpected waiving of examination. Jesse Black knew the steer had been
                        recovered and saw the futility of fighting against his being bound over.
                    "Now, ain't she a hummer?" insisted Jim, admiringly, but added slightingly,
                        "Homely, though, as all git-out. Mouse-hair. Plumb homely."
                    "On the contrary, I think she is plumb pretty," retorted Langford, a laugh in
                        his blue eyes. Jim fairly gasped with chagrin.
                    
                    Unconcerned, grinning, Black slouched to the door and out. Once straighten
                        out that lazy-looking body and you would have a big man in Jesse Black. Yes,
                        a big one and a quick one, too, maybe. The crowd made way for him
                        unconsciously. No one jostled him. He was a marked man from that day. His
                        lawyer, Small, leaned back in his chair, radiating waves of
                        self-satisfaction as though he had but just gained a disputed point. It was
                        a manner he affected when not on the floor in a frenzy of words and muscular
                        action.
                    Jim Munson contrived to pass close by Jake Sanderson.
                    "So you followed me to find out about Mag, did you? Heap o' good it did you!
                        We knew you knew," he bragged, insultingly.
                    The man's face went white with wrath.
                    "Damn you!" he cried. His hand dropped to his belt.
                    The two glared at each other like fighting cocks. Men crowded around,
                        suddenly aware that a quarrel was on.
                    "The Three Bars's a gittin' busy!" jeered Jim.
                    "Come, Jim, I want you." It was Gordon's quiet voice. He laid a restraining
                        hand on Munson's over-zealous arm.
                    "Dick Gordon, this ain't your put-in," snarled Sanderson. "Git out the way!"
                        He shoved him roughly aside. "Now, snappin' turtle," to Jim, "the Three
                        Bars'd better git busy!"
                    
                    A feint at a blow, a clever little twist of the feet, and Munson sprawled on
                        the floor, men pressing back to give him the full force of the fall. They
                        believed in fair play. But Jim, uncowed, was up with the nimbleness of a
                        monkey.
                    "Hit away!" he cried, tauntingly. "I know 'nough to swear out a warrant
                        'gainst you! 'T won't be so lonesome for Jesse now breakin' stones over to
                        Sioux Falls."
                    "Jim!" It was Gordon's quiet, authoritative voice once more. "I told you I
                        wanted you." He threw his arm over the belligerent's shoulder.
                    "Comin', Dick. I didn't mean to blab so much," Jim answered, contritely.
                    They moved away. Sanderson followed them up.
                    "Dick Gordon," he said with cool deliberateness, "you're too damned anxious
                        to stick your nose into other people's affairs. Learn your lesson, will you?
                        My favorite stunt is to teach meddlers how to mind their own business, this
                        way."
                    It was not a fair blow. Gordon doubled up with the force of the punch in his
                        stomach. In a moment all was confusion. Men drew their pistols. It looked as
                        if there was to be a free-for-all fight.
                    Langford sprang to his friend's aid, using his fists with plentiful freedom
                        in his haste to get to him.
                    "Never mind me," whispered Gordon. He was leaning heavily on Jim's shoulder.
                        His face was pale,  but he smiled reassuringly.
                        There was something very sweet about his mouth when he smiled. "Never mind
                        me," he repeated. "Get the girls out of this quick, Paul."
                    Mary and Louise had sought refuge behind the big table.
                    "Quick, the back door!" cried Langford, leading the way; and as the three
                        passed out, he closed the door behind them, saying, "You are all right now.
                        Run to the hotel. I must see how Dick is coming on."
                    "Do you think he is badly hurt?" asked Louise. "Can't we help?"
                    "I think you had best get out of this as quickly as you can. I don't believe
                        he is knocked out, by any means, but I want to be on hand for any future
                        events which may be called. Just fly now, both of you."
                    The unfair blow in the stomach had given the sympathy of most of the
                        bystanders, for the time being at least, to Gordon. Men forgot, momentarily,
                        their grudge against him. Understanding from the black looks that he was not
                        in touch with the crowd, Sanderson laughed a short snort of contempt and
                        slipped out of the door. Unable to resist the impulse, Jim bounded out after
                        his enemy.
                    When Paul hastened around to the front of the building, the crowd was nearly
                        all in the street. The tension was relaxed. A dazed expression
                        prevailedbrought to life by the suddenness with which the affair  had developed to such interesting proportions
                        and the quickness with which it had flattened out to nothing. For Sanderson
                        had disappeared, completely, mysteriously, and in all the level landscape,
                        there was no trace of him nor sign.
                    "See a balloon, Jim?" asked Langford, slapping him on the shoulder with the
                        glimmer of a smile. "Well, your red-headed friend won't be down in a
                        parachute yet. Are you all right, Dick, old man?"
                    "Yes. Where are the girls?"
                    "They are all right. I took them through the back door and sent them to the
                        hotel."
                    "You kin bet on the Boss every time when it comes to petticoats," said Jim,
                        disconsolately.
                    "Why, Jim, what's up?" asked Langford, in amused surprise.
                    But Jim only turned and walked away with his head in the air. The serpent was
                        leering at him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    THE COUNTY ATTORNEY
                    "I TOO am going to Wind City," said a pleasant voice at her side. "You will
                        let me help you with your things, will you not?"
                    The slender girl standing before the ticket window, stuffing change into her
                        coin purse, turned quickly.
                    "Why, Mr. Gordon," she said, holding out a small hand with frank pleasure.
                        "How very nice! Thank you, will you take my rain-coat? It has been such a
                        bother. I would bring it right in the face of Uncle Hammond's objections. He
                        said it never rained out this way. But I surely have suffered a plenty for
                        my waywardness. Don't you think so?"
                    "It behooves a tenderfoot like you to sit and diligently learn of such
                        experienced and toughened old-timers as we are, rather than flaunt your
                        untried ideas in our faces," responded Gordon, with a smile that transformed
                        the keen gray eyes of this man of much labor, much lofty ambition, and much
                        sorrow, so that they seemed for the moment strangely young, laughing,
                        untroubled; as clear of taint of evil knowledge as the source of a stream
                        leaping joyously into the sunlight  from some
                        mountain solitude. It was a revelation to Louise.
                    "I will try to be a good and diligent seeker after knowledge of this strange
                        land of yours," she answered, with a little laugh half of embarrassment,
                        half of enjoyment of this play of nonsense, and leading the way to her
                        suit-case and Mary outside. "When I make mistakes, will you tell me about
                        them? Down East, you know, our feet travel in the ancient, prescribed
                        circles of our forefathers, and they are apt to go somewhat uncertainly if
                        thrust into new paths."
                    And this laughing, clever girl had cried with home-sickness! Well, no wonder.
                        The worst of it was, she could never hope to be acclimated. She was not
                        their kind. Sooner or later she must go back to God's country.
                    To her surprise, Gordon, though he laughed softly for a moment, answered
                        rather gravely.
                    "If my somewhat niggardly fate should grant me that good fortune, that I may
                        do something for you, I ask that you be not afraid to trust to my help. It
                        would not be half-hearted I assure you."
                    She looked up at him gratefully. His shoulders, slightly stooped, betokening
                        the grind at college and the burden-bearing in later years, instead of
                        suggesting any inherent weakness in the man, rather inspired her with an
                        intuitive faith in their quiet, unswerving, utter trustworthiness.
                    
                    "Thank you," she said, simply. "I am so glad they did not hurt you much that
                        day in the court-room. We worried Mary and I."
                    "Thank you. There was not the least danger. They were merely venting their
                        spite on me. They would not have dared more."
                    There is always a crowd at the Velpen station for outgoing or incoming
                        trains. This meeting of trains is one of the dissipations of its people and
                        an eminently respectable dissipation. It was early the eastbound leaves at
                        something past eight yet there were many people on the platform who did not
                        seem to be going anywhere. They were after such stray worms as always fall
                        to the lot of the proverbial early bird. The particular worm in question
                        that morning was the new girl court reporter, homeward bound. Many were
                        making the excuse of mailing belated letters. Mary was standing guard over
                        the suit-case and umbrella near the last car. She seemed strangely alone and
                        aloof standing there, the gravity of the silent prairie a palpable
                        atmosphere about her.
                    "There's my brakeman," said Louise, when she and Gordon had found a seat near
                        the rear. Mary had gone and a brakeman had swung onto the last car as it
                        glided past the platform, and came down the aisle with a grin of recognition
                        for his "little white lamb."
                    "How nice it all seems, just as if I had been gone months instead of days and
                        was coming home again. It  would be funny if I
                        should be homesick for the range when I get to Wind City, wouldn't it?"
                    "Let us pray assiduously that it may be so," answered Gordon, with one of his
                        rare smiles. He busied himself a moment in stowing away her belongings to
                        the best advantage. "It gets in one's blood, how or when, one never
                        knows."
                    They rode in silence for a while.
                    "Tell me about your big fight," said Louise, presently. The road-bed was
                        fairly good, and they were spinning along on a down grade. He must needs
                        bend closer to hear her.
                    She was good to look at, fair and sweet, and it had been weary years since
                        women had come close to Gordon's life. In the old college days, before this
                        hard, disappointing, unequal fight against the dominant forces of greed,
                        against tolerance of might overcoming right, had begun to sap his vitality,
                        he had gone too deeply into his studies to have much time left for the
                        gayeties and gallantries of the social side in university life. He had not
                        been popular with women. They did not know him. Yet, though dubbed a "dig"
                        by his fellow-collegians, the men liked him. They liked him for his
                        trustworthiness, admired him for his rugged honesty, desired his friendship
                        for the inspiration of his high ideals.
                    The memory of these friendships with men had been an ever-present source of
                        strength and comfort to him  in these later
                        years of his busy life. Yet of late he had felt himself growing calloused
                        and tired. The enthusiasm of his younger manhood was falling from him
                        somewhat, and he had been but six years out of the university. But it was
                        all so hopeless, so bitterly futile, this moral fight of one man to stay the
                        mind-bewildering and heart-sickening ceaseless round of wheels of open crime
                        and official chicanery. Was the river bridged? And what of the straw? His
                        name was a joke in the cattle country, a joke to horse thief, a joke to
                        sheriff. Its synonyme was impotency among the law-abiders who were yet
                        political cowards. What was the use? What could a man do one man, when a
                        fair jury was a dream, when ballots were so folded that the clerk, drawing,
                        might know which to select in order to obtain a jury that would stand pat
                        with the cattle rustlers? Much brain and brawn had been thrown away in the
                        unequal struggle. Let it pass. Was there any further use?
                    Then a woman came to him in his dark hour. His was a stubborn and fighting
                        blood, a blood that would never cry "enough" till it ceased to flow. Yet
                        what a comforting thing it was that this woman, Louise, should be beside
                        him, this woman who knew and who understood. For when she lifted those
                        tender gray eyes and asked him of his big fight, he knew she understood.
                        There was no need of explanation, of apology, for all the failure of all
                        these years. A warm gratitude  swept across his
                        heart. And she was so neat and sweet and fair, unspoiled by constant contact
                        with, and intimate knowledge of, the life of the under world; rather was she
                        touched to a wonderful sympathy of understanding. It was good to know such a
                        woman; it would be better to be a friend of such a woman; it would be best
                        of all to love such a woman if one dared.
                    "What shall I talk about, Miss Dale? It is all very prosaic and
                        uninteresting, I'm afraid; shockingly primitive, glaringly new."
                    "I breakfasted with a stanch friend of yours this morning," answered Louise,
                        somewhat irrelevantly. She had a feeling a woman's feelingthat this earnest,
                        hard-working, reserved man would never blurt out things about himself with
                        the bland self-centredness of most men. She must use all her woman's wit to
                        draw him out. She did not know yet that he was starved for sympathy for
                        understanding. She could not know yet that two affinities had drifted
                        through space near together. A feathery zephyr, blowing where it listed,
                        might widen the space between to an infinity of distance so that they might
                        never know how nearly they had once met; or it might, as its whim dictated,
                        blow them together so that for weal or for woe they would know each the
                        other.
                    "Mrs. Higgins, at the Bon Ami," she continued, smiling. "I was so hungry when
                        we got to Velpen, though I had eaten a tremendous breakfast at the  Lazy S. But five o'clock is an unholy hour at
                        which to eat one's breakfast, isn't it, and I just couldn't help getting
                        hungry all over again. So I persuaded Mary to stop for another cup of
                        coffee. It is ridiculous the way I eat in your country."
                    "It is a good country," he said, soberly.
                    "It must be if you can say so."
                    "Because I have failed, shall I cry out that law cannot be enforced in Kemah
                        County? Sometimes may it be soon there will come a man big enough to make
                        the law triumphant. He will not be I."
                    He was still smarting from his many set-backs. He had worked hard and had
                        accomplished nothing. At the last term of court, though many cases were
                        tried, he had not secured one conviction.
                    "We shall see," said Louise, softly. Her look, straight into his eyes, was a
                        glint of sunlight in dark places. Then she laughed.
                    "Mrs. Higgins said to me: 'Jimmie Mac hain't got the sense he was born with.
                        His little, dried-up brain'd rattle 'round in a mustard seed and he's
                        gettin' shet o' that little so fast it makes my head swim.' She was telling
                        about times when he hadn't acted just fair to you. I am glad from all I hear
                        that this was taken out of his hands."
                    "I can count my friends, the real ones, on one hand, I'm afraid," said
                        Gordon, with a good-humored smile; "and Mrs. Higgins surely is the
                        thumb."
                    
                    "I am glad you smiled," said Louise. "That would have sounded so bitter if
                        you had not."
                    "I couldn't help smiling. You you have such a way, Miss Dale."
                    It was blunt but it rang true.
                    "It is true, though, about my friends. If I could convict Jesse Black, for
                        instance, a million friends would call me blessed. But I can't do it alone.
                        They will not do it; they will not help me do it; they despise me because I
                        can't do it, and swear at me because I try to do it and there you have the
                        whole situation in a nutshell, Miss Dale."
                    The sun struck across her face. He reached over and lowered the blind.
                    "Thank you. But it is ''vantage in' now, is it not? You will get justice
                        before Uncle Hammond."
                    Unconsciously his shoulders straightened.
                    "Yes, Miss Dale, it is ''vantage in.' One of two things will come to pass. I
                        shall send Jesse Black over or " he paused. His eyes, unseeing, were fixed
                        on the gliding landscape as it appeared in rectangular spots through the
                        window in front of them.
                    "Yes. Or" prompted Louise, softly.
                    "Never mind. It is of no consequence," he said, abruptly. "No fear of Judge
                        Dale. Juries are my Waterloo."
                    "Is it, then, such a nest of cowards?" cried Louise, intense scorn in her
                        clear voice.
                    
                    "Yes," deliberately. "Men are afraid of retaliation those who are not
                        actually blood-guilty, as you might say. And who can say who is and who is
                        not? But he will be sent over this time. Paul Langford is on his trail. Give
                        me two men like Langford and that anachronism an honest man west of the
                        river Williston, and you can have the rest, sheriff and all."
                    "Mr. Williston he has been unfortunate, has he not? He is such a gentleman,
                        and a scholar, surely."
                    "Surely. He is one of the finest fellows I know. A man of the most sensitive
                        honor. If such a thing can be, I should say he is too honest, for his own
                        good. A man can be, you know. There is nothing in the world that cannot be
                        overdone."
                    She looked at him earnestly. His eyes did not shift. She was satisfied.
                    "Your work belies your words," she said, quietly.
                    Dust and cinders drifted in between the slats of the closed blind. Putting
                        her handkerchief to her lips, Louise looked at the dark streaks on it with
                        reproach.
                    "Your South Dakota dirt is so black," she said, whimsically.
                    "Better black than yellow," he retorted. "It looks cleaner, now, doesn't
                        it?"
                    "Maybe you think my home a fit dwelling place for John Chinaman," pouted
                        Louise.
                    "Yes if that will persuade you that South Dakota is infinitely better. Are
                        you open to conviction?"
                    
                    "Never ! I should die if I had to stay here."
                    "You will be going back soon?"
                    "Some day, sure! Soon? Maybe. Oh, I wish I could. That part of me which is
                        like Uncle Hammond says, 'Stay.' But that other part of me which is like the
                        rest of us, says, 'What's the use? Go back to your kind. You're happier
                        there. Why should you want to be different? What does it all amount to?' I
                        am afraid I shall be weak enough and foolish enough to go back and
                        stay."
                    There was a stir in the forward part of the car. A man, hitherto sitting
                        quietly by the side of an alert wiry little fellow who sat next the aisle,
                        had attempted to bolt the car by springing over the empty seat in front of
                        him and making a dash for the door. It was daring, but in vain. His
                        companion, as agile as he, had seized him and forced him again into his
                        place before the rest of the passengers fully understood that the attempt
                        had really been made.
                    "Is he crazy? Are they taking him to Yankton?" asked Louise, the pretty color
                        all gone from her face. "Did he think to jump off the train?"
                    "That's John Yellow Wolf, a young half-breed. He's wanted up in the Hills for
                        cattle-rustling United States Court case. That's Johnson with him, Deputy
                        United States Marshal."
                    "Poor fellow," said Louise, pityingly.
                    "Don't waste your sympathy on such as he. They 
                        are degenerates many of these half-breeds. They will swear to anything. They
                        inherit all the evils of the two races. Good never mixes. Yellow Wolf would
                        swear himself into everlasting torment for a pint of whiskey. You see my
                        cause of complaint? But never think, Miss Dale, that these poor chaps of
                        half-breeds, who are hardly responsible, are the only ones who are willing
                        to swear to damnable lies." There was a tang of bitterness in his voice.
                        "Perjury, Miss Dale, perjury through fear of bribery or self-interest, God
                        knows what, it is there I must break, I suppose, until the day of judgment,
                        unless I run away."
                    Louise, through all the working of his smart and sting, felt the quiet
                        reserve strength of this man beside her, and, with a quick rush of longing
                        to do her part, her woman's part of comforting and healing, she put her
                        hand, small, ungloved, on his rough coat sleeve.
                    "Is that what you meant a while ago? But you don't mean it, do you? It is
                        bitter and you do not mean it. Tell me that you do not mean it, Mr. Gordon,
                        please," she said, impulsively.
                    Smothering a wild impulse to keep the hand where it had lain such a brief,
                        palpitating while, Gordon remained silent. God only knows what human longing
                        he crushed down, what intense discouragement, what sick desire to lay down
                        his thankless task and flee to the uttermost parts of the world to be away
                        from the  crying need he yet could not still.
                        Then he answered simply, "I did not mean it, Miss Dale."
                    And then there did not seem to be anything to say between them for a long
                        while. The half-breed had settled down with stolid indifference. People had
                        resumed their newspapers and magazines and day dreams after the fleeting
                        excitement. It was very warm. Louise tried to create a little breeze by
                        flicking her somewhat begrimed handkerchief in front of her face. Gordon
                        took a newspaper from his pocket, folded it and fanned her gently. He was
                        not used to the little graces of life, perhaps, but he did this well. An
                        honest man and a kindly never goes far wrong in any direction.
                    "You must not think, Miss Dale," he said, seriously, "that it is all bad up
                        here. I am only selfish. I have been harping on my own little corner of
                        wickedness all the while. It is a good land. It will be better before
                        long."
                    "When?" asked Louise.
                    "When we convict Jesse Black and when our Indian neighbors get over their
                        mania for divorce," he answered, laughing softly.
                    Louise laughed merrily and so the journey ended as it had begun, with a laugh
                        and a jest.
                    In the Judge's runabout, Louise held out her hand.
                    "I'm almost homesick," she cried, smiling.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE ATTACK ON THE LAZY S
                    IT was late. The August night was cool and sweet after a weary day of intense
                        heat. The door was thrown wide open. It was good to feel the night air
                        creeping into the stifling room. There was no light within; and without,
                        nothing but the brilliant stars in the quiet, brooding sky. Williston was
                        sitting just within the doorway. Mary, her hands clasped idly around her
                        knees, sat on the doorstep, thoughtfully staring out into the still
                        darkness. There was a stir.
                    "Bedtime, little girl," said Williston.
                    "Just a minute more, daddy. Must we have a light? Think how the mosquitoes
                        will swarm. Let's go to bed in the dark."
                    "We will shut the door and next Summer, little girl, you shall have your
                        screens. I promise you that, always providing, of course, Jesse Black leaves
                        us alone."
                    Had it not been so dark, Mary could have seen the wistful smile on the thin,
                        scholarly face. But though she could not see it, she knew it was there.
                        There had been fairer hopes and more generous promises in the past few
                        years. They had all gone the dreary way of impotent striving, of bitter
                        disappointment. There  was little need of light
                        for Mary to read her father's thoughts.
                    "Sure, daddy," she answered, cheerily. "And I'll see that you don't forget.
                        As for Jesse Black, he wouldn't dare with the Three Bars on his trail. Well,
                        if you must have a light, you must," rising and stretching her firm-fleshed
                        young arms far over her head. "You can't forget you were born in
                        civilization, can you, daddy? I am sure I could be your man in the dark, if
                        you'd let me, and I always turn your nightshirt right side out before
                        hanging it on your bedpost, and your sheet and spread are turned down, and
                        water right at hand. You funny, funny little father, who can't go to bed in
                        the dark." She was rummaging around a shelf in search of matches. "Now, I
                        have forgotten long since that I wasn't born on the plains. It wouldn't hurt
                        me if I had misplaced my nightdress. I've done it," with a gay little laugh.
                        He must be cheered up at all costs, this buffeted and disappointed but
                        fine-minded, high-strung, and lovable father of hers. "And I haven't taken
                        my hair down nights sinceoh, since months ago, till oh, well so you see it's
                        easy enough for me to go to bed in the dark."
                    Her hand touched the match box at last. A light flared out.
                    "Shut the door quick, dad," she said, lighting the lamp on the table. "The
                        skeeters'll eat us alive."
                    Williston stepped to the door. Just a moment he 
                        stood there in the doorway, the light streaming out into the night, tall,
                        thoughtful, no weakling in spite of many failures and many mistakes. A fair
                        mark he made, outlined against the brightly lighted room. It was quiet. Not
                        even a coyote shrilled. And while he stood there looking up at the calm
                        stars, a sudden sharp report rang out and the sacred peace of God, written
                        in the serenity of still summer nights, was desecrated. Hissing and ominous,
                        the bullet sang past Williston's head, perilously near, and lodged in the
                        opposite wall. At that moment, the light was blown out. A great presence of
                        mind had come to Mary in the time of imminent danger.
                    "Good, my dear!" cried Williston, in low tones. Quick as a flash, the door
                        was slammed shut and bolted just as a second shot fell foul of it.
                    "Oh, my father!" cried Mary, groping her way to his side.
                    "Hush, my dear! They missed me clean. Don't lose your nerve, Mary. They won't
                        find it so easy after all."
                    There had been no third shot. A profound silence followed the second report.
                        There was no sound of horse or man. Whence, then, the shots? One man, maybe,
                        creeping up like some foul beast of prey to strike in the dark. Was he still
                        lurking near, abiding another opportunity?
                    It took but a moment for Williston to have the rifles  cocked and ready. Mary took her own from him with a hand that
                        trembled ever so slightly.
                    "What will you do, father?" she asked, holding her rifle lovingly and
                        thanking God in a swift, unformed thought for every rattlesnake or other
                        noxious creature whose life she had put out while doing her man's work of
                        riding the range, work which had given her not only a man's courage but a
                        man's skill as well.
                    "Take the back window, girl," he answered, briefly. "I'll take the front.
                        Stand to the side. Get used to the starlight and shoot every shadow you see,
                        especially if it moves. Keep track of your shots, don't waste an effort and
                        don't let anything creep up on you. They mustn't get near enough to fire the
                        house."
                    His voice was sharp and incisive. The drifting habit had fallen from him, and
                        he was his own master again.
                    Several heavy minutes dragged away without movement, without sound from
                        without. The ticking of the clock pressed on strained ears like ghastly
                        bell-tolling. Their eyes became accustomed to the darkness and, by the dim
                        starlight, they were able to distinguish the outlines of the cattle sheds,
                        still, empty, black. Nothing moved out there.
                    "I think they 're frightened off," said Mary at last, breathing more freely.
                        "They were probably just one, or they 'd not have left. He knew he missed
                        you, or he would not have fired again. Do you think it was Jesse?"
                    
                    "Jesse would not have missed," he said, grimly.
                    At that moment, a new sound broke the stillness, the whinny of a horse.
                        Reinforcement had approached within the shadow of the cattle-sheds.
                        Something moved out there at last.
                    "Daddy!" called Mary, in a choked whisper. "Come here they are down at the
                        sheds."
                    Williston stepped to the back window quickly.
                    "Change places," he said, briefly.
                    "Daddy!"
                    "Yes?"
                    "Keep up your nerve," she breathed between great heart-pumps.
                    "Surely! Do you the same, little comrade, and shoot to kill."
                    There was a savage note in his last words. For himself, it did not matter so
                        much, but Mary he pinned no false faith in any thought of possible
                        chivalrous intent on the part of the raiders to exempt his daughter from the
                        grim fate that awaited him. He had to deal with a desperate man; there would
                        be no clemency in this desperate man's retaliation.
                    To his quickened hearing came the sound of stealthy creeping. Something moved
                        directly in front of him, but some distance away. "Shoot every shadow you
                        see, especially if it moves," were the fighting orders, and his was the
                        third shot of that night.
                    "Hell! I 've got it in the leg!" cried a rough voice  full of intense anger and pain, and there were sounds of a
                        precipitate retreat.
                    Out under protection of the long row of low-built sheds, other orders were
                        being tersely given and silently received.
                    "Now, men, I'll shoot the first man of you who blubbers when he's hit. D'ye
                        hear? There have been breaks enough in this affair already. I don't intend
                        for that petticoat man and his pulin' petticoat kid in there to get any
                        satisfaction out o' this at all. Hear me?"
                    There was no response. None was needed.
                    Some shots found harmless lodgment in the outer walls of the shanty. They
                        were the result of an unavailing attempt to pick the window whence
                        Williston's shot had come. Mary could not keep back a little womanish gasp
                        of nervous dread.
                    "Grip your nerve, Mary," said her father. "That 's nothing shooting from down
                        there. Just lie low and they can do nothing. Only watch, child, watch! They
                        must not creep up on us. Oh, for a moon!"
                    She did grip her nerve, and her hand ceased its trembling. In the darkness,
                        her eyes were big and solemn. Sometime, to-morrow, the reaction would come,
                        but to-night 
                    "Yes, father, keep up your own nerve," she said, in a brave little voice that
                        made the man catch his breath in a sob.
                    
                    Again the heavy minutes dragged away. At each of the two windows crouched a
                        tense figure, brain alert, eyes in iron control. It was a frightful strain,
                        this waiting game. Could one be sure nothing had escaped one's vigilance?
                        Starlight was deceptive, and one's eyes must needs shift to keep the mastery
                        over their little horizon. It might well be that some one of those ghostly
                        and hidden sentinels patrolling the lonely homestead had wormed himself past
                        staring eyeballs, crawling, crawling, crawling; it might well be that at any
                        moment a sudden light flaring up from some corner would tell the tale of the
                        end.
                    Now and then could be heard the soft thud of a hoof as some one rode to
                        execute an order. Occasionally, something moved out by the sheds. Such
                        movement, if discernible from the house, was sure to be followed on the
                        instant by a quick sharp remonstrance from Williston's rifle. How long could
                        it last? Would his nerve wear away with the night? Could he keep his will
                        dominant? If so, he must drag his mind resolutely away from that
                        nerve-racking, still, and unseen creeping, creeping, creeping, nearer and
                        nearer. How the stillness weighed upon him, and still his mind dwelt upon
                        that sinuous, flat-bellied creeping, crawling, worming! God, it was awful!
                        He fought it desperately. He knew he was lost if he could not stop thinking
                        about it. The sweat came out in big beads on his forehead, on his body; he
                        prickled with the heat of the effort.  Then it
                        left him the awful horror left him curiously cold, but steady of nerve and
                        with a will of iron and eyes, cat's eyes, for their seeing in the dark. Now
                        that he was calm once more, he let himself weigh the chances of succor. They
                        were pitifully remote. The Lazy S was situated in a lonely stretch of
                        prairie land far from any direct trail. True, it lay between Kemah, the
                        county seat, and the Three Bars ranch, but it was a good half mile from the
                        straight route. Even so, it was a late hour for any one to be passing by. It
                        was not a travelled trail except for the boys of the Three Bars, and they
                        were known to be great home-stayers and little given to spreeing. As for the
                        rustlers, if rustlers they were, they had no fear of interruption by the
                        officers of the law, who held their places by virtue of the insolent and
                        arbitrary will of Jesse Black and his brotherhood, and were now carousing in
                        Kemah by virtue of the hush-money put up by this same Secret Tribunal.
                    Yet now that Williston's head was clear, he realized, with strengthening
                        confidence in the impregnability of their position, that two trusty rifles
                        behind barred doors are not so bad a defence after all, especially when one
                        took into consideration that, with the exception of the sheds overlooking
                        which he had chosen his position as the point of greatest menace, and a
                        small clump of half-grown cottonwoods by the spring which Mary commanded
                        from her window, there were no hiding  places
                        to be utilized for this Indian mode of warfare. He could not know how many
                        desperadoes there were, but he reasoned well when he confided in his belief
                        that they would not readily trust themselves to the too dangerous odds of
                        the open space between. An open attack was not probable. Vigilance, then, a
                        never-lapsing vigilance that they be not surprised, was the price of their
                        salvation. What human power could do, he would do, and trust Mary to do the
                        same. She was a good girl and true. She would do well. She had not yet shot.
                        Surely, they would make use of that good vantage ground of the cottonwood
                        clump. Probably they were even now making a detour to reach it.
                    "Watch, child, watch!" he said again, without in the least shifting his tense
                        position.
                    "Surely!" responded Mary, quite steadily.
                    Now was her time come. Dark, sinister figures flitted from tree to tree. At
                        first, she could not be sure, it was so heartlessly dark, but there was
                        movement it was different from that terrible blank quiet which she had
                        hitherto been gazing upon till her eyes burned and pricked as with needle
                        points, and visionary things swam before them. She winked rapidly to dispel
                        the unreal and floating things, opened wide her longlashed lids, fixed them,
                        and fired. Then Williston knew that his "little girl," his one ewe lamb, all
                        that was left to him of a full and gracious past, must go through what he
                        had gone through, all that nameless horror  and
                        expectant dread, and his heart cried out at the unholy injustice of it all.
                        He dared not go to her, dared not desert his post for an instant. If one got
                        within the shadow of the walls, all was lost.
                    Mary's challenge was met with a rather hot return fire. It was probably given
                        to inspire the besieged with a due respect for the attackers' numbers.
                        Bullets pattered around the outside walls like hailstones, one even whizzed
                        through the window perilously near the girl's intent young face.
                    Silence came back to the night. There was no more movement. Yet down there at
                        the spring, something, maybe one of those dark, gaunt cotton woods, held
                        death death for her and death for her father. A stream of icy coldness
                        struck across her heart. She found herself calculating in deliberation which
                        tree it was that held this thing death. The biggest one, shadowing the
                        spring, helping to keep the pool sweet and cool where Paul Langford had
                        galloped his horse that day when ah! if Paul Langford would only come
                        now!
                    A wild, girlish hope flashed up in her heart. Langford would come had he not
                        sworn it to her father? Had he not given his hand as a pledge? It means
                        something to shake hands in the cattle country. He was big and brave and
                        true. When he came, these awful, creeping terrors would disperse grim
                        shadows that must steal away when morning comes. When he  came, she could put her rifle in his big,
                        confident hands, lie down on the floor and cry. She wanted to cry oh, how
                        she did want to cry! If Paul Langford would only come, she could cry. Cold
                        reason came back to her aid and dissipated the weak and womanish longing to
                        give way to tears. There was a pathetic droop to her mouth, a long,
                        quivering, sobbing sigh, and she buried her woman's weakness right deeply
                        and stamped upon it. How utterly wild and foolish her brief hope had been!
                        Langford and all his men were sound in sleep long ago. How could he know?
                        Were the ruffians out there men to tell? Ah, no! There was no one to know.
                        It would all happen in the dark, in awful loneliness, and there would be no
                        one to know until it was all over to-morrow, maybe, or next week, who could
                        tell? They were off the main trail, few people ever sought them out. There
                        would be no one to know.
                    As her strained sight stared out into the darkness, it was borne to her
                        intuitively, it may be, that something was creeping up on her. She could see
                        nothing and yet knew it to be true. Every fibre of her being tingled with
                        the certainty of it. It was coming closer and closer. She felt it like an
                        actual presence. Her eyes shifted here, there swept her half-circle
                        searchingly stared and stared. Still nothing moved. And yet the nearness of
                        some unseen thing grew more and more palpable. If she could not see it soon,
                        she must  scream aloud. She breathed in little
                        quickened gasps. Soon, very soon now, she would scream. Ah! A shadow down by
                        the biggest cottonwood! It boldly sought a nearer and a smaller trunk.
                        Another slinking shadow glided behind the vacated position. It was a ghastly
                        presentation of "Pussy-wants-a-corner" played in nightmare. But at last it
                        was something tangible, something to do away with that frightful sensation
                        of that crawling, creeping, twisting, worming, insinuating nearer and
                        nearer, so near now that it beat upon her unseen presence. She pressed her
                        finger to the trigger to shoot at the tangible shadows and dispel that
                        enveloping, choking, blanket horror, when God knows what stayed the muscular
                        action of her fingers. Call it instinct, what you will, her hand was stayed
                        even before her physical eye was caught and held by a blot darker still than
                        the night, over to her right, farthest from the spring. It lay perfectly
                        still. It came to her, the wily plan, with startling clearness. The blot was
                        waiting for her to fire futilely at grinning shadows among the trees and,
                        under cover of her engrossed attention, insinuate its treacherous body the
                        farther forward. Then the play would go merrily on till the end. She turned
                        the barrel of her rifle slowly and deliberately away from the moving shapes
                        among the cottonwood clump, sighted truly the motionless blur to her right,
                        and fired, once, twice, three times.
                    
                    The completeness of the surprise seemed to inspire the attackers with a
                        hellish fury. They returned the fire rapidly and at will, remaining under
                        cover the while. Shrinking low at her window, her eyes glued on the still
                        black mass out yonder, Mary wondered if it were dead. She prayed
                        passionately that it might be, and yet it is a dreadful thing to kill. Once
                        more the wild firing ceased. Mary responded once or twice just to keep the
                        deadly chill from returning if that were possible.
                    Under cover of the desperadoes' fire, at obtuse angles with the first
                        attempt, a second blot began its tortuous twisting. It accomplished a space,
                        stopped; pulled itself its length, stopped, waited, watchful eyes on the
                        window whence came Mary's scattered firing still into the clump of trees.
                        They had drawn her close regard at last. Would it hold out? Forward again,
                        crawling flat on the ground, ever advancing, slowly, very slowly, but also
                        very surely, creeping, creeping, creeping, now stopping, now creeping,
                        stopping, creeping.
                    All at once the gun play began again, sharp, quick, from the spring, from the
                        sheds. The blot lay perfectly still for a moment waiting, watching. The
                        plucky little rifle was silent. But so it had been before. Quarter length,
                        half, whole length, cautiously with frequent stops, eyes so steely, so
                        intent could it be possible that this gun was really silenced out of the
                        race? It would not do to trust too much. The blot waited, scarcely breathed,
                        crept forward again.
                    
                    A sudden bright light flashed up through the darkness under the unprotected
                        wall to Mary's left. Almost simultaneously a kindred light sprang into being
                        from the region of the cattle-sheds. The men down there had been waiting for
                        this signal. It meant that for some reason the second effort to creep up
                        unobserved to fire the house had been successful. The flare grew and spread.
                        It became a glare.
                    When the whole cabin seemed to be in flames save the door, the dry, rude
                        boarding had caught and burned ike paper, when the heat had become
                        unbearable, Williston held out his hand to his daughter, silently. As
                        silently she put her hand, her left hand, in his; nor did Williston notice
                        that it was her left, nor how limply her right arm hung to her side. In the
                        glare, her face shone colorless, but her dark eyes were stars. Her head was
                        held high. With firm step, Williston advanced to the door. Deliberately he
                        unbarred it, as deliberately threw it open, and stepped over the threshold.
                        They were covered on the instant by four rifles.
                    "Drop your guns!" called the chief, roughly. Then the desperadoes moved
                        up.
                    "I take it that I am the one wanted," said Williston.
                    His voice was calm and scholarly once more. In the uselessness of further
                        struggle, it had lost the sharp incisiveness that had been the call to
                        action. If one must die, it is good to die after a brave fight. One is  never a coward then. Williston's face wore an
                        almost exalted look.
                    "My daughter is free to go?" he asked, his first words having met with no
                        response. Better, much better, for the make of a man like Williston to die
                        in the dignity of silence, but for Mary's sake he parleyed.
                    "I guess not!" responded the leader, curtly. "If a pulin' idiot hadn't missed
                        the broadside of you as pretty a mark this side heaven as man could want,
                        then we might talk about the girl. She's showed up too damned much like a
                        man now to let her loose."
                    His big, shuffling form lounged in his saddle. He raised his rifle with every
                        appearance of lazy indifference. They were to be shot down where they stood,
                        now, right on the threshold of their burning homestead.
                    Williston bowed his head to the inevitable for a moment; then raised it
                        proudly to meet the inevitable.
                    A rifle shot rang out startlingly clear. At the very moment the leader's
                        hawk's eye had swept the sight, his rifle arm had twitched uncertainly, then
                        fallen nerveless to his side, while his bullet, playing a faltering and
                        discordant second to the first true shot, tore up the ground in front of him
                        and swerved harmlessly to one side. Instantly the wildest confusion reigned,
                        shouts, curses, the plunging of horses mingled with the sharp crack of
                        fire-arms. The shooting was wild. The surprise was too complete for the
                        outlaws to recover at  once. They had heard no
                        sound of approaching hoof-beats. The roaring flames licking up the dry
                        lumber, and rendering the surrounding darkness the blacker for the contrast,
                        had been of saving grace to the besiegers after all.
                    In a moment, the desperadoes rallied. They closed in and imposed a cursing,
                        malignant wall between the rescuers and the blazing door of the shanty and
                        what stood and lay before it. Mary had sunk down at her father's feet, and
                        had no cognizance of the fierce though brief conflict that ensued.
                    Presently, she was dragged roughly to her feet. A big, muscular arm had heavy
                        grasp of her.
                    "Make sure of the girl, Red!" commanded a sharp voice near, and it was gone
                        out into the night.
                    Afterward, she heard oh, many, many times in the night watches the eerie
                        galloping of horses' hoofs, growing fainter and ever fainter, heard it above
                        the medley of trampling horses and yelling men, and knew it for what it
                        meant; but to-night this evil night she gave but one quick, bewildered
                        glance into the sinister face above her and in a soft, shuddering voice
                        breathed, "Please don't," and fainted.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    IN WHICH THE X Y Z FIGURES SOMEWHAT MYSTERIOUSLY
                    JIM MUNSON, riding his pony over the home trail at a slow walk, drooped
                        sleepily in his saddle. It was not a weirdly late bedtime, half-past ten,
                        maybe, but he would have been sleeping soundly a good hour or more had this
                        not been his night to go to town if he chose. He had chosen. He would not
                        have missed his chance for a good deal. But his dissipation had been light.
                        The Boss never tolerated much along that line. He had drunk with some
                        congenial cronies from the Circle E outfit complimentary to the future
                        well-being and increasing wealth of this already well-known and flourishing
                        cattle ranch. Of course he must drink a return compliment to the same
                        rose-colored prosperity for the Three Bars, which he did and sighed for
                        more. That made two, and two were the limit, and here was the limit
                        overreached already; for there had always to be a last little comforter to
                        keep him from nodding in his saddle.
                    Before the time arrived for that, there were some errands to be executed for
                        the boys on duty at the  home ranch. These
                        necessitated a call at the post-office, the purchase of several slabs of
                        plug tobacco, some corn-cob pipes, and some writing material for Kin
                        Lathrop. He must not forget the baking powder for the cook. Woe to him,
                        Munson, if there were no biscuits for breakfast. Meanwhile he must not
                        neglect to gather what little news was going. That would be a crime as
                        heinous as the forgetting of the baking powder. But there didn't seem to be
                        anything doing to-night. Only the sheriff was playing again behind the
                        curtain. Couldn't fool him. Damned hypocrite!
                    The errands accomplished to his satisfaction and nothing forgotten, as
                        frequent and close inspection of the list written out by the Scribe proved,
                        his comforter swallowed, lingeringly, and regretfully, he was now riding
                        homeward, drowsy but vastly contented with the world in general and
                        particularly with his own lot therein. It was a sleepy night, cool and soft
                        and still. He could walk his horse all the way if he wanted to. There was no
                        haste. The boys would all be in bed. They would not even wait up for the
                        mail, knowing his, Jim's, innate aversion to hurry. Had he not been so
                        drowsy, he would like to have sung a bit; but it required a little too much
                        effort. He would just plod along.
                    Must all be in bed at Williston's no light anywhere. A little short of where
                        the Williston branch left the main trail, he half paused. If it were not so
                             late, he would ride up and give them a
                        hail. But of course they were asleep. Everything seemed still and dark about
                        the premises. He would just plod along.
                    "Hello, there! Where 'd you come from?" he cried of a sudden, and before he
                        had had time to carry his resolve into action.
                    A man on horseback had drawn rein directly in front of him. Jim blinked with
                        the suddenness of the shock.
                    "Might ask you the same question," responded the other with an easy laugh. "I
                        'm for town to see the doctor about my little girl. Been puny for a
                        week."
                    "Oh! Where you from?" asked Jim, with the courteous interest of his kind.
                    "New man on the X Y Z," answered the other, lightly. "Must be gettin' on.
                        Worried about my baby girl."
                    He touched spurs to his horse and was off with a friendly "So long," over his
                        shoulder.
                    Jim rode on thoughtfully.
                    "Now don't it beat the devil," he was thinking, "how that there cow-puncher
                        struck this trail comin' from the X Y Z with the X Y Z clean t' other side
                        o' town? Yep, it beats the devil, for a fac'. He must be a ridin' for his
                        health. It beats the devil." This last was long drawn out. He rode a little
                        farther. "It beats the devil," he thought again, the wonder of it was waking
                        him up, "how that blamed fool could a' struck this here trail a goin' for
                        Doc."
                    
                    At the branch road he stopped irresolutely.
                    "It beats the devil for a fac'." He looked helplessly over his shoulder. The
                        man was beyond sight and sound. "If he hadn't said he was goin' for Doc and
                        belonged to the X Y Z," he pondered. He was swearing because he could not
                        think of a way out of the maze of contradiction. He was so seldom at a loss,
                        this braggadocio Jim. "Well, I reckon I won't get any he'p a moonin' here
                        less'n I wait here till that son-of-a-gun comes back from seein' Doc. Lord,
                        I 'd have to camp out all night. Guess I'll be a movin' on. But I 'm plumb
                        a-foot for an idee as to how that idjit got here from the X Y Z."
                    He shrugged his shoulders and picked up the fallen bridle-rein. He kept on
                        straight ahead, and it was well for him that he did so. It was not the last
                        of the affair. The old, prosaic trail seemed fairly bristling with ghostly
                        visitants that night. He had gone but a scant quarter-mile when he met with
                        a second horseman, and this time he would have sworn on oath that the man
                        had not been on the forward trail as long as he should have been to be seen
                        in the starlight. Jim was not dozing now and he knew what he was about. The
                        fellow struck the trail from across country and from the direction of
                        Williston's home cattle sheds.
                    "The devil!" he muttered, and this time he was in deep and terrible
                        earnest.
                    "Hullo!" the fellow accosted him, genially.
                    
                    "Too damned pleasant the whole bunch of 'em," found quick lodgment in Jim's
                        active brain. Aloud, he responded with answering good-nature, "Hullo!"
                    "Where ye goin'?" asked the other, as if in no particular haste to part
                        company. If he had met with a surprise, he carried it off well.
                    "Home. Been to town." Jim was on tenter hooks to be off.
                    "Belong to the Three Bars, don't you?"
                    "Yep."
                    "Thought so. Well, good luck to you."
                    "Say," said Jim, suddenly, "you don't happen to hang out at the X Y Z, do
                        you?"
                    "Naw! What d' ye suppose I 'd be doing here this time of night if I did?"
                        There was scorn in his voice and suspicion, too. "Why?" he asked.
                    "Oh, nothin'. Thought I knew your build, but I guess I was mistaken. So
                        long."
                    He had an itching desire to ask if this night traveller, too, was in quest of
                        the doctor, but caution held him silent. He had need to proceed warily. He
                        rode briskly along until he judged he had gone far enough to allay
                        suspicion, then he halted suddenly. Very wide-awake was Jim now. His hand
                        rested unconsciously on the Colt's 45, protruding from his loosely hanging
                        belt. His impulse was to ride boldly back and up to Williston's door, and
                        thus satisfy himself as to what was doing so mysteriously. There was not a
                        cowardly drop in  Jim's circulation. But if
                        foul play was abroad for Williston that night, he, Jim, of course, was
                        spotted and would never be permitted to reach the house. It would mean a
                        useless sacrifice. Now, he needed to be alive. There was a crying need for
                        his good and active service. Afterwards well, it was all in the day's work.
                        It wouldn't so much matter then. He touched spurs lightly, bent his head
                        against the friction of the air and urged his horse to the maddest, wildest
                        race he had ever run since that day long ago, to be forgotten by neither,
                        when he had been broken to his master's will.
                    Paul Langford dropped one shoe nervelessly to the wolfskin in front of his
                        bed. Though his bachelor room was plain in most respects, plain for the
                        better convenience of the bachelor hands that had it to put to rights every
                        day, with the exception of a cook, Langford kept no servant, the wolfskin
                        here, an Indian blanket thrown over a stiff chair by the table, a Japanese
                        screen concealing the ugly little sheet-iron stove that stood over in its
                        corner all the year round, gave evidence that his tastes were really
                        luxurious. An oil lamp was burning dimly on the table. The soot of many
                        burnings adhered to the chimney's inner side.
                    "One would know it was Jim's week by looking at that chimney," muttered the
                        Boss, eyeing the offending chimney discontentedly as he dropped the other
                        shoe.  "He seems to have an inborn aversion to
                        cleaning chimneys. It must be a birthmark, or maybe he was too anxious to
                        get to town to-night. I see I'll have to discipline Jim. I have to stop and
                        think even now, sometimes, who 's boss of this shebang, he or I. Sometimes
                        I'm inclined to the opinion that he is. Come to think of it, though,"
                        whimsically, "I lean to a vague misgiving that I didn't touch that low-down
                        chimney myself last week. We 're kind of an ornery set, I 'm thinking, every
                        mother's son of us and I 'm the worst of the lot. Sometimes I wonder if it
                        wouldn't be better for the bunch of us, if one of the boys were to marry and
                        bring his girl to the Three Bars. But I'll be hanged if I know which one I
                        'd care to give up to the feminine gender. Besides, she 'd be bossy they all
                        are and she 'd wear blue calico wrappers in the morning they all do."
                    He began pacing the floor in his stocking feet.
                    "Wish I could get that blamed little girl of Williston's out of my head
                        to-night. Positively red-headed. Well, call it auburn for the sake of
                        politeness. What 's the difference? She 's a winner, though. Wonder why I
                        didn't know about her before? Wonder if Dick 's in love with her? Shouldn't
                        wonder. He 's plumb daffy on the subject of the old man. Never thought of
                        that before. Or maybe it 's Jim. No, she 's not his kind." He stopped for a
                        moment at the open window and looked out into the still, starry night.
                        "Guess I'll  have to let the Scribe commit
                        matrimony, if he 's 'willin'.' He 's the only one of the bunch fit."
                    The sound of galloping hoof-beats on the hard road below came up to him as he
                        stood at the window. A solitary horseman was coming that way and he was
                        putting his horse to the limit, too.
                    "Who the deuce," began Langford. "It 's Jim's cow pony as sure as I 'm a
                        sinner! What brings him home at that pace, I wonder? Is he drunk?"
                    He peered out indifferently. The hoof-beats rang nearer and nearer, clattered
                        through the stable yards and, before they ceased, two or three revolver
                        shots rang out in rapid succession. Jim had fired into the air to arouse the
                        house.
                    Springing from his reeking bronco, he ran quickly to the stable and threw
                        wide the door. Here the Boss, the first to gain the outside because already
                        dressed, found him hastily saddling a fresh mount. Langford asked no
                        question. That would come later. He stepped silently to Sadie's stall.
                    In an incredibly short space of time the rest of the boys came leaping out of
                        the ranchhouse, slamming the door behind them. To be up and doing was the
                        meat they fed upon. In less than ten minutes they were all mounted and
                        ready, five of them, silent, full to the brim of reckless hardihood, prime
                        for any adventure that would serve to break the monotony of their lives.
                        More than that, every fibre of their being, when  touched, would respond, a tuneful, sounding string of loyalty
                        to the traditions of the Three Bars and to its young master. Each was fully
                        armed. They asked no question. Yet there could be no doubt of a surprise
                        when the time came for action. They were always prepared, these boys of the
                        most popular ranch outfit west of the river. Right in the face of this
                        popularity, perhaps because of it, they were a bit overbearing, these boys,
                        and held fellowship with any outside the Three Bars a thing not to be
                        lightly entered into. It was a fine thing to work for the Boss, and out of
                        the content accruing therefrom sprang a conservatism like that of the
                        proudest aristocrat of the land.
                    Langford took the trail first. Jim had said but the one word, "Williston." It
                        was enough. Nothing was to be heard but the rapid though regular pound of
                        hoof-beats on the level trail. It is a silent country, the cow country, and
                        its gravity begets gravity.
                    Langford, riding slightly in advance, was having a bad time with himself. The
                        keenest self-reproach was stabbing him like a physical pain. His honor his
                        good honor, that he held so high and stainless was his word not given by it
                        that the Willistons might count on his sure protection? What had he done to
                        merit this proud boast? Knowing that Jesse Black was once more at liberty,
                        fully realizing of what vast import to the State would be Williston's
                        testimony when the rustlers should be brought to trial, he had sat stupidly
                        back and  done nothing. And he had promised.
                        Would Williston have had the courage without that promise? Why were not some
                        of his cowboys even now sleeping with an eye upon that little claim shack
                        where lived that scholar-man who was not fit for the rough life of the
                        plains, maybe, but who had been brave enough and high-minded enough to lay
                        his all on the white altar of telling what he knew for right's sake. And the
                        girl 
                    "God! The girl!" he cried aloud.
                    "What did you say, Boss?" asked Jim, pounding alongside.
                    "Nothing!" said Langford, curtly.
                    He spurred his mare savagely. In the shock of the surprise, and the sting
                        that his neglected word brought him, he had forgotten the girl Williston's
                        "little girl" with the grave eyes the girl who was not ten but twenty and
                        more the girl who had waited for him, whom he had sent on her long way
                        alone, joyously, as one free of a duty that promised to be irksome the girl
                        who had brought the blood to his face when, ashamed, he had galloped off to
                        the spring the girl who had closed her door when a man's curious eyes had
                        roved that way. How could he forget?
                    The little cavalcade swept on with increased speed, following the lead of the
                        master. Soon the sound of shooting was borne to them distinctly through the
                        quiet night.
                    
                    "Thank God, boys!" cried Langford, digging in his spurs once more. "They are
                        not surprised! Listen! God! What a plucky fight! If they can only hold
                        out!"
                    At that moment a tiny tongue of flame leaped up away to the front of them,
                        gleaming in the darkness like a beacon light. Now there were two they grew,
                        spread, leaped heavenward in mad revel. Langford's heart sank like lead. He
                        groaned in an exceeding bitterness of spirit. The worst had happened. Would
                        they be in time? These claim shanties burn like paper. And the girl! He
                        doubted not that she had sustained her share of the good fight. She had
                        fought like a man, she must die like a man, would be the outlaw's reasoning.
                        He believed she would die like a man if that meant bravely, but something
                        clutched at his heart-strings with the thought. Her big, solemn eyes came
                        back to him now as they had looked when she had lifted them to him gravely
                        as he sat his horse and she had said she had waited for him. Was she waiting
                        now?
                    The boys rallied to the new impetus gloriously. They knew now what it meant
                        and their hardy hearts thrilled to the excitement of it, and the danger.
                        They swept from the main trail into the dimmer one leading to Williston's,
                        without diminution of speed. Presently, the Boss drew rein with a suddenness
                        that would have played havoc with the equilibrium of less seasoned  horsemen than cowboys. They followed with the
                        precision and accord of trained cavalrymen. Now and then could be seen a
                        black, sinister figure patrolling the burning homestead, but hugging closely
                        the outer skirt of darkness, waiting for the doomed door to open.
                    "Boys!" began Langford. But he never gave the intended command to charge at
                        once with wild shouting and shooting to frighten away the marauders and give
                        warning to the besieged that rescue was at hand. For at that moment the door
                        opened, and Williston and his daughter stepped out in full view of raider
                        and rescuer. Would there be parley? A man, slouching in his saddle, rode up
                        into the circle of lurid light. Was it Jesse Black? There was something
                        hauntingly familiar about the droop of the shoulders. That was all; hardly
                        enough to hang a man.
                    Langford raised his rifle quickly. His nerves were perfectly steady. His
                        sight was never truer. His bullet went straight to the rifle arm of the
                        outlaw; with a ringing shout he rallied his comrades, spurred his pony
                        forward, and the little party charged the astounded raiders with a fury of
                        shots that made each rustler stand well to his own support, leaving the
                        Willistons, for the time being, free from their attention.
                    The desperadoes were on the run. They cared to take no risk of
                        identification. It was not easy to determine how many there were. There
                        seemed a half-dozen  or more, but probably
                        four or five at the most would tell their number.
                    The flames were sinking. Williston had disappeared. The boys scattered in
                        wild pursuit. Wheeling his horse, Langford was in time to see a big,
                        muscular fellow swing a girlish form to the saddle in front of him. Quick as
                        a flash he spurred forward, lifted his heavy Colt's revolver high over his
                        head and brought it down on the fellow's skull with a force that knocked him
                        senseless without time for a sigh or moan. As his arms fell lax and he
                        toppled in his saddle, Langford caught the girl and swung her free of
                        entanglement.
                    "Poor little girl," he breathed over her as her white face dropped with
                        unconscious pathos against his big shoulder. "Poor little girl I 'm sorry I
                        didn't mean to honest I 'm sorry." He chafed her hands gently. "And I don't
                        know where your father is, either. Are you hurt anywhere, or have you only
                        fainted? God knows I don't wonder. It was hellish. Why, child, child, your
                        arm! It is broken! Oh, little girl, I didn't mean to honest honest. I 'm
                        sorry."
                    Jim rode up panting, eyes blood-shot.
                    "We can't find him, Boss. They 've carried him off, dead or alive."
                    "Is it so, Jim? Are you sure? How far did you follow?"
                    "We must have followed the wrong lead. If any 
                        one was ridin' double, it wasn't the ones we was after, that 's one thing
                        sure. The blamed hoss thieves pulled clean away from us. Our hosses were
                        plumb winded anyway. And there 's a deader out there, Boss," lowering his
                        voice; "I found him as I came back."
                    "That explains why no one was riding double," said Langford,
                        thoughtfully.
                    "How 's the gal, Boss?"
                    "I don't know, Jim. I don't know what to do now."
                    His eyes were full of trouble.
                    "Ain't no use cryin' over spilt milk and that 's a fac'. 'Bout as sensible as
                        a tryin' to pick it up after it is spilt. We won't find Williston this here
                        night, that 's one thing sure. So we'll just tote the little gal home to the
                        Three Bars with us."
                    The boys were returning, silent, gloomy, disconsolate. They eyed the Boss
                        tentatively. Would they receive praise or censure? They had worked hard.
                    "You 're all right, boys," said Langford, smiling away their gloom. "But
                        about the girl. There is no woman at the Three Bars, you know "
                    "So you 'd leave her out all night to the dew and the coyotes and the hoss
                        thieves, would you," interrupted Jim, with a fine sarcasm, "jest because
                        there ain't no growed-up woman at the Three Bars? What d' ye think
                        Williston's little gal 'd care for style? She ain't afraid o' us ol'
                        grizzled fellers. I hope to the  Lord there
                        won't never be no growed-up woman at the Three Bars, yep, that's what I
                        hope. I think that mouse-haired gal reporter 'd be just turrible fussy, and
                        I think she 's a goin' to marry a down Easterner chap, anyway."
                    "Just pick up that fellow, will you, boys, and strap him to his horse, and
                        we'll take him along," said Langford. "I don't believe he 's dead."
                    "What fellow?" asked the Scribe, peering casually about.
                    Langford had unconsciously ridden forward a bit to meet the boys as they had
                        clattered up shamefacedly. Now he turned.
                    "Why, that fellow over there. I knocked him out."
                    He rode back slowly. There was no man there, nor the trace of a man. They
                        stared at each other a moment, silently. Then Langford spoke.
                    "No, I am not going to leave Williston's little girl out in the dew," he
                        said, with an inscrutable smile. "While some of you ride in to get some one
                        to see about that body out there and bring out the doctor, I'll take her
                        over to White's for to-night, anyway. Mrs. White will care for her. Then
                        perhaps we will send for the 'gal reporter,' Jim."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    "YOU ARE THE BOSS"
                    SHE held out her left hand with a sad little smile. "It is good of you to
                        come so soon," she said, simply.
                    She had begged so earnestly to sit up that Mrs. White had improvised an
                        invalid's chair out of a huge old rocker and a cracker box. It did very
                        well. Then she had partially clothed the girl in a skimpy wrapper of the
                        sort Langford abominated, throwing a man's silk handkerchief where the
                        wrapper failed to meet, and around the injured arm. Mrs. White had then
                        recalled her husband from the stables where he was on the point of mounting
                        to join the relief party that was to set off in search of Williston at ten
                        o'clock. The starting point unanimously agreed upon was to be the pitiful
                        remnants of Williston's home. Men shook their heads dubiously whenever the
                        question of a possible leading trail was broached. The soil was hard and dry
                        from an almost rainless July and August. The fugitives might strike across
                        country anywhere with meagre chances of their trail being traced by any.
                    Mrs. White and her husband, kindly souls both, lifted the girl as gently as
                        might be from the bed to the rudely 
                        constructed invalid's chair by the sitting-room window. Then they had left
                        her the woman to putter around her kitchen, the man to make good his
                        appointment. But the exertion had been too much for Mary. She had counted on
                        strength that she did not possess. Where had she lost it all? she wondered,
                        lacking comprehension of her exceeding weakness. To be sure, her arm
                        alternately ached and smarted, but one's arm was really such a small part of
                        one, and she had been so strong always. She tried to shake off the faintness
                        creeping over her. It was effort thrown away. She lay back on her pillow,
                        very white and worn, her pretty hair tangled and loosened from its
                        coils.
                    Paul came. He was dusty and travel-stained. He had been almost continuously
                        in his saddle since near midnight of the night before. He was here, big,
                        strong, and worthy. Mary did not cry, but she remembered how she had wanted
                        to a few hours ago and she wondered that she could not now. Strangely
                        enough, it was Paul who wanted to cry now but he didn't. He only swallowed
                        hard and held her poor hand with all gentleness, afraid to let go lest he
                        also let go his mastery over the almost insurmountable lump in his
                        throat.
                    "I tried to come sooner," he said, huskily, at last, releasing her hand and
                        standing before her. "But I 've been riding all over for men, you know, and
                        I had a talk with Gordon, too. It took time. He is  coming out to see you this afternoon. He is coming with Doc.
                        Don't you think you had better go back to bed now? You are so so white. Let
                        me carry you back to bed before I go."
                    "Are you going, too?" asked Mary, looking at him with wide eyes of
                        gratitude.
                    "Surely," he responded, quickly. "Did you think I wouldn't?"
                    "I I didn't know. I thought there were a lot going there would be enough
                        without you. But I am glad. If you go, it will be all right. You will find
                        him if any one can."
                    "Won't you let me carry you back to bed till Doc comes?" said Langford,
                        brokenly.
                    "I could not bear it in bed," she said, clearly. Her brown eyes were
                        beginning to shine with fever, and red spots had broken out in her pale
                        cheeks. "If you make me go, I shall die. I hear it all the time when I am
                        lying down galloping, galloping, galloping. They never stop. They always
                        begin all over again."
                    "What galloping, little girl?" asked Langford, soothingly. He saw she was
                        becoming delirious. If Doc and Dick would only come before he had to go. But
                        they were not coming until after dinner. He gazed down the dusty road. They
                        would wait for him, the others. He was their leader by the natural-born
                        right of push and energy, as well as by his having been the sole
                        participant, with his own cowboys, in the last  night's tragedy. But would he do well to keep them waiting? They had
                        already delayed too long. And yet how could he leave Williston's little girl
                        like this even to find Williston?
                    "They are carrying my father away," she said, with startling distinctness.
                        "Don't you hear them? If you would listen, you could hear them. Do listen!
                        They are getting faint now you can hardly hear them. They are fainter
                        fainter fainter "
                    She had raised her head. There was an alert look on her face. She leaned
                        slightly toward the window.
                    "Good God! A man can't stand everything!" cried Langford, hoarsely. He tore
                        the knotted handkerchief from his throat. It was as if he was choking. Then
                        he put his cool, strong hand to her burning forehead and gently smoothed
                        back the rough hair. Gradually, the fixed look of an indescribable horror
                        passed away from her face. The strained, hard eyes softened, became dewy.
                        She looked at him, a clinging helplessness in her eyes, but sweet and
                        sane.
                    "Don't you worry, child," he said, comfortingly. "They can't help finding
                        him. Twenty men with the sheriff start on the trail. There'll be fifty
                        before night. They can't help finding him. I 'm going to stay right here
                        with you till Doc comes. I'll catch up with them before they 've gone far.
                        I'll send word to the boys not to wait. Must be somebody around the house, I
                        reckon, besides the old lady."
                    
                    He started cheerily for the door.
                    "Mr. Langford!"
                    "Yes?"
                    "Please come back."
                    He came quickly to her.
                    "What is it?"
                    "Mr. Langford, will you grant me a favor?"
                    "Certainly, Miss Mary. Anything in this world that I can do for you, I will
                        do. You know that, don't you?"
                    "I am all right now. I don't think I shall get crazy again if you will let me
                        sit here by this window and look out. If I can watch for him, it will give
                        me something to do. You see, I could be watching all the time for the party
                        to come back over that little rise up the road. I want you to promise me,"
                        she went on, steadily, "that I may sit here and wait for you to come
                        back."
                    "God knows you may, little girl, anyway till Doc comes."
                    "You are wiser than Doc," pursued the girl. "He is a good fellow, but
                        foolish, you know, sometimes. He might not understand. He might like to use
                        authority over me because I am his patient when he did not understand.
                        Promise that I may sit up till you come back."
                    "I do promise, little girl. Tell him I said so. Tell him "
                    
                    "I will tell him you are the Boss," she said, with a pitiful little attempt
                        at a jest, and smiling wanly. "He will mind the Boss."
                    Langford was in agony. Perspiration was springing out on his forehead though
                        August was wearing away peacefully in soft coolness with drifting depths of
                        white cloud as a lounging-robe, a blessed reprieve from the blazing sun of
                        the long weeks which had gone before.
                    "And then I want you to promise me," went on Mary, quietly, "that you will
                        not think any more of staying behind. I could not bear that. I trust you to
                        go. You will, won't you?"
                    "Yes, I will go. I will do anything you say. And I want you to believe that
                        everything will be all right. They would not dare to kill him now, knowing
                        that we are after them. If we are not back to-night, you will not worry,
                        will you? They had so much the start of us."
                    "I will try not to worry."
                    "Well, good-bye. Be a good girl, won't you?"
                    "I will try," she answered, wearily.
                    With a last look into the brave, sweet face, and smothering a mad,
                        uncowman-like desire to stay and comfort this dear little woman while others
                        rode away in stirring quest, Langford strode from the sick-room into the
                        kitchen.
                    "Don't let her be alone any more than you can help,  Mother White," he said, brusquely, "and don't worry her about
                        going to bed."
                    "Have a bite afore you start, Mr. Langford, do," urged the good woman,
                        hospitably. "You 're that worn out you 're white around the gills. I'll bet
                        you haven't had ary bite o' breakfast."
                    "I had forgotten but you are right. No, thank you, I'll not stop for anything
                        now. I'll have to ride like Kingdom come. I 'm late. Be good to her, Mother
                        White," this last over his shoulder as he sprang to his mount from the
                        kitchen stoop.
                    The long day wore along. Mother White was baking. The men would be ravenous
                        when they came back. Many would stop there for something to eat before going
                        on to their homes. It might be to-night, it might be to-morrow, it might not
                        be until the day after, but whenever the time did come, knowing the men of
                        the range country, she must have something "by her." The pleasant fragrance
                        of new bread just from the oven, mixed with the faint, spicy odor of
                        cinnamon rolls, floated into the cheerless sitting-room. Mary, idly watching
                        Mother White through the open door as she bustled about in a
                        wholesome-looking blue-checked gingham apron, longed with a childish
                        intensity to be out where there were human warmth and companionship. It was
                        such a weary struggle to keep cobwebs out of her head in that lonely,
                        carpetless sitting-room, and to keep the pipe that reared itself above the
                             squat stove, from changing into a
                        cottonwood tree. Some calamity seemed to hover over her all the time. She
                        was about to grasp the terrible truth, she knew she must look around. Now
                        some one was creeping toward her from under the bed. Unless she stared it
                        out of countenance, something awful would surely come to pass.
                    Mother White came to the door from time to time to ask her how she was, with
                        floury hands, and stove smutch on her plump cheek. She never failed to break
                        the evil spell. But Mary was weak, and Mrs. White on one of her periodical
                        pauses at the door found her sobbing in pitiful self-abandonment. She went
                        to her quickly, her face full of concern.
                    "My dear, my dear," she cried, anxiously, "what is it? Tell me. Mr. Langford
                        will never forgive me. I didn't mean to neglect you, child. It 's only that
                        I 'm plumb a-foot for time. Tell me what ails you that 's a dearie."
                    Mary laid her head on the motherly shoulder and cried quietly for a while.
                        Then she looked up with the faintest ghost of a smile.
                    "I 'm ashamed to tell you, Mother White," she half whispered. "It is only
                        that I was afraid you hadn't put enough cinnamon in the rolls. I like
                        cinnamon rolls."
                    "Lord love the child!" gasped Mrs. White, but without the least inclination
                        to laugh. "Why, I  lit'rally buried 'em in
                        cinnamon. I couldn't afford not to. If I do say it who shouldn't, my rolls
                        is pretty well known in Kemah County. The boys wouldn't stand for no
                        economizin' in spice. No, sirree."
                    She hastened wonderingly back to her kitchen, only to return with a heaped-up
                        plate of sweet-smelling rolls.
                    "Here you are, honey, and they won't hurt you a mite. I can't think what
                        keeps that fool Doc." She was getting worried. It was nearly four and he was
                        not even in sight.
                    Now that she had them, Mary did not want the rolls. She felt they would choke
                        her. She waited until her kindly neighbor had trotted back to her household
                        cares, and pushed the plate away. She turned to her window with an
                        exaggerated feeling of relief. It was hard to watch ceaselessly for some one
                        to top that little rise out yonder and yet for no one ever to do it. But
                        there were compensations. It is really better sometimes not to see things
                        than to see some things. And it was easier to keep her head clear when she
                        was watching the road.
                    A younger White, an over-grown lad of twelve, came in from far afield. He
                        carried a shot-gun in one hand and a gunny-sack thrown over his shoulder. He
                        slouched up and deposited the contents of the bag in front of Mary's window
                        with a bashful, but sociable grin. Mary nodded approvingly, and the boy was
                        soon  absorbed in dressing the fowls. What a
                        feast there would be that night if the men got back!
                    At last came the doctor and Gordon, driving up in the doctor's top-buggy,
                        weather-stained, mud-bedaubed with the mud of last Spring, of many Springs.
                        The doctor was a badly dressed, pleasant-eyed man, past middle age, with a
                        fringe of gray whiskers. He was a sort of journeyman doctor, and he had
                        drifted hither one day two Summers ago from the Lake Andes country in this
                        selfsame travel-worn conveyance with its same bony sorrel. He had found good
                        picking, he had often jovially remarked since, chewing serenely away on a
                        brand of vile plug the while. He had elected to remain. He was part and
                        parcel of the cattle country now. He was an established condition. People
                        had learned to accept him as he was and be grateful. Haste was a mental and
                        physical impossibility to him. He took his own time. All must perforce
                        acquiesce.
                    But as he took Mary's wrist between well-shaped fingers disfigured with long,
                        black nails, he had not been able as yet to readjust himself to old
                        conditions after last night's grewsome experience. He was still walking in a
                        maze. He occasionally even forgot the automatic movement of his jaws. Ah,
                        little doctor, something untoward must have happened to cause you to forget
                        that! What that something was he was thinking about now, and that was what
                        made his blue eyes twinkle so merrily.
                    
                    Last night, was it only last night? oh, way, way in the night, when ghosts
                        and goblins stalked abroad and all good people were safely housed and deeply
                        asleep, there had come a goblin to his door in the hotel, and cried for
                        admittance with devilish persistence and wealth of language. When he, the
                        doctor, had desired information as to the needs of his untimely visitant,
                        the shoulders of some prehistoric giant had been put to the door, and it had
                        fallen open as to the touch of magic. A dazzling and nether-world light had
                        flamed up in his room, and this Hercules-goblin with lock-destroying
                        tendencies had commanded him to clothe himself, with such insistency that
                        the mantle of nimbleness had descended upon all the little doctor's
                        movements. That this marvellous agility was the result, pure and simple, of
                        black arts, was shown by the fact that the little doctor was in a daze all
                        the rest of the night. He did not even make show of undue astonishment or
                        nervousness when, clothed in some wonderful and haphazard fashion, he was
                        escorted through the dimly lit hall, down the dark stairway, past the office
                        where a night-lamp burned dully, out into the cool night air and into the
                        yawning depths of a mysterious vehicle which rattled with a suspiciously
                        familiar rattle when it suddenly plunged into what seemed like everlasting
                        darkness ahead. He had felt a trifle more like himself after he had
                        unconsciously rammed his hand through  the
                        rent in the cushion where the hair stuffing was coming out. But he had not
                        been permitted the reins, so he could not be sure if they were tied together
                        with a piece of old suspender or not; and if that was Old Sorrel, he
                        certainly had powers of speed hitherto unsuspected.
                    Witchcraft? Ay! Had not he, the little doctor, heard ghostly hoof-beats
                        alongside all the way? It had been nerve-racking. Sometimes he had thought
                        it might just be a cow pony, but he could not be sure; and when he had been
                        tossed profanely and with no dignity into the house of one White,
                        homesteader, with the enigmatical words, "There, damn ye, Doc! I reckon ye
                        got a move on once in your life, anyway," the voice had sounded uncannily
                        like that of one Jim Munson, cow-puncher; but that was doubtless a
                        hallucination of his, brought about by the unusualness of the night's
                        adventures.
                    "You have worked yourself into a high fever, Miss Williston, that's what
                        you've done," he said, with professional mournfulness.
                    "I know it," she smiled, wanly. "I couldn't help it. I'm sorry."
                    Gordon drew up a chair and sat down by her, saying with grave kindness, "You
                        are fretting. We must not let you. I am going to stay with you all night and
                        shoo the goblins away."
                    "You are kind," said Mary, gratefully. "May I tell  you when they come? If some one speaks to me, they go
                        away."
                    "Indeed you may, dear child," he exclaimed, heartily. He had been half joking
                        when he spoke of keeping things away. He now perceived that these things
                        were more serious than he knew.
                    The doctor administered medicine to reduce the fever, dressed the wounded
                        arm, with Gordon's ready assistance, and then called in Mother White to
                        prepare the bed for his patient; but he paused nonplussed before the weight
                        of entreaty in Mary's eyes and voice.
                    "Please don't," she cried out, in actual terror. "Oh, Mr. Gordon, don't let
                        him! I see such awful things when I lie down. Please! Please! And Mr.
                        Langford said I might sit up till he came. Mr. Gordon, you will not let him
                        put me to bed, will you?"
                    "I think it will be better to let her have her way, Lockhart," said Gordon,
                        in a low voice.
                    "Mebbe it would, Dick," said the doctor, with surprising meekness.
                    "I'll stay all night and I'll take good care of her, Lockhart. There's Mother
                        White beckoning to supper. You'll eat before you go? No, I won't take any
                        supper now, thank you, mother, I will stay with Mary."
                    And he did stay with her all through the long watches of that long night. He
                        never closed his eyes in sleep. Sometimes, Mary would drop off into uneasy
                             slumber always of short duration. When
                        she awakened suddenly in wide-eyed fright, he soothed her with all
                        tenderness. Sometimes when he thought she was sleeping, she would clutch his
                        arm desperately and cry out that there was some one behind the big
                        cottonwood. Again it would be to ask him in a terrified whisper if he did
                        not hear hoof-beats, galloping, galloping, galloping, and begged him to
                        listen. He could always quiet her, and she tried hard to keep from
                        wandering; but after a short, broken rest, she would cry out again in
                        endless repetition of the terrors of that awful night.
                    Mrs. White and several of her small progeny breathed loudly from an adjoining
                        room. A lamp burned dimly on the table. It grew late twelve o'clock and
                        after. At last she rested. She passed from light, broken slumber to deep
                        sleep without crying out and thus awakening herself. Gordon was tired and
                        sad. Now that the flush of fever was gone, he saw how white and miserable
                        she really looked. The circles under her eyes were so dark they were like
                        bruises. The mantle of his misfortune was spreading to bring others besides
                        himself into its sombre folds.
                    The men were coming back. But they were coming quietly, in grim silence. He
                        dared not awaken Mary for the news he knew they must carry. He stepped
                        noiselessly to the door to warn them to a yet greater stillness, and met
                        Langford on the threshold.
                    
                    The two surveyed each other gravely with clasped hands.
                    "You tell her, Dick. I I can't," said Langford. His big shoulders drooped as
                        under a heavy burden.
                    "Must I?" asked Gordon,
                    "Dick, I I can't," said Langford, brokenly. "Don't you see? if I had been
                        just a minute sooner and I promised."
                    "Yes, I see, Paul," said Gordon, quietly. "I will tell her."
                    "You need not," said a sweet clear voice from across the room. "I know. I
                        heard. I think I knew all the time but you were all so good to make me hope.
                        Don't worry about me any more, dear friends. I am all right now. It is much
                        better to know. I hope they didn't hang him. You think they shot him, don't
                        you?"
                    "Little girl, little girl," cried Langford, on his knees beside her, "it is
                        not that! It is only that we have not found him. But no news is good news.
                        That we have found no trace proves that they have to guard him well because
                        he is alive. We are going on a new tack to-morrow. Believe me, little girl,
                        and go to bed now, won't you, and rest?"
                    "Yes," she said, wearily, as one in whom no hope was left, "I will go. I will
                        mind the Boss."
                    As he laid her gently on the bed, while Mrs. 
                        White, aroused from sleep, fluttered aimlessly and drowsily about, he
                        whispered, his breath caressing her cheek:
                    "You will go to sleep right away, won't you?"
                    "I will try. You are the Boss."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    WAITING
                    THE man found dead the night the Lazy S was burned out was not easily
                        identified. He was a half-breed, but half-breeds were many west of the
                        river, and the places where they laid their heads at night were as shifting
                        as the sands of that rapid, ominous, changing stream of theirs, which ever
                        cut them off from the world of their fathers and kept them bound, but
                        restless, chafing, in that same land where their mothers had stared stolidly
                        at a strange little boat-load tugging up the river that was the forerunner
                        of the ultimate destiny of this broad northwest country, but which brought
                        incidentally as do all big destinies in the great scheme bring sorrow to
                        some one wrong, misunderstanding, forgetfulness, to a once proud, free
                        people now in subjection.
                    At last the authorities found trace of him far away at Standing Rock, through
                        the agent there, who knew him as of an ugly reputation, a dissipated, roving
                        profligate, who had long since squandered his government patrimony. He had
                        been mixed up in sundry bad affairs in the past, and had been an inveterate
                        gambler. So much only were the Kemah County 
                        authorities able to uncover of the wayward earthly career of the dead man.
                        Of his haunts and cronies of the period immediately preceding his death, the
                        agent could tell nothing. He had not been seen at the agency for nearly a
                        year. The reprobate band had covered its tracks well. There was nothing to
                        do but lay the dead body away and shovel oblivion over its secret.
                    In the early morning after the return of the men from their unsuccessful man
                        hunt, Gordon, gray and haggard from loss of sleep and from hard thought,
                        stepped out into the kitchen to stretch his cramped limbs. He stumbled over
                        the figure of Langford prone upon the floor, dead asleep in utter
                        exhaustion. He smiled understandingly and opened the outer door quietly,
                        hoping he had not aroused the worn-out Boss. The air was fresh and cool,
                        with a hint of Autumn sharpness, and a premature Indian Summer haze, that
                        softened the gauntness of the landscape, and made the distances blue and
                        rest-giving. He felt the need of invigoration after his night's vigil, and
                        struck off down the road with long strides, in pleasant anticipation of a
                        coming appetite for breakfast.
                    Thus it was that Langford, struggling to a sitting posture, rubbing his heavy
                        eyes with a dim consciousness that he had been disturbed, and wondering
                        drowsily why he was so stupid, felt something seeping through his  senses that told him he did not do well to
                        sleep. So he decided he would take a plunge into the cold artesian pond, and
                        with such drastic measures banish once and for all the elusive yet
                        all-pervading cobwebs which clung to him. Rising to his feet with unusual
                        awkwardness, he looked with scorn upon the bare floor and accused it blindly
                        and bitterly as the direct cause of the strange soreness that beset his
                        whole anatomy. The lay of the floor had changed in a night. Where was he? He
                        glanced helplessly about. Then he knew.
                    Thus it was, that when Mary languidly opened her eyes a little later, it was
                        the Boss who sat beside her and smiled reassuringly.
                    "You have not slept a wink," she cried, accusingly.
                    "Indeed I have," he said. "Three whole hours. I feel tip-top."
                    "You are fibbing," she said. "Your eyes look so tired, and your face is all
                        worn."
                    His heart leaped with the joy of her solicitude.
                    "You are wrong," he laughed, teasingly. "I slept on the floor; and a good bed
                        it was, too. No, Miss Williston, I am not 'all in' yet, by any means."
                    In his new consciousness, a new formality crept into his way of addressing
                        her. She did not seem to notice it.
                    "Forgive me for forgetting, last night," she said, earnestly. "I was very
                        selfish. I forgot that you had not slept for nearly two days, and were
                        riding  all the while in our behalf. I forgot.
                        I was tired, and I went to sleep. I want you to forgive me. I want you to
                        believe that I do appreciate what you have done. My father"
                    "Don't, don't, little girl," cried Langford, forgetting his new awe of her
                        maidenhood in his pity for the stricken child.
                    "My father," she went on, steadily, "would thank you if he were here. I thank
                        you, too, even if I did forget to think whether or no you and all the men
                        had any sleep or anything to eat last night. Will you try to believe that I
                        did not forget wittingly? I was so tired."
                    When Langford answered her, which was not immediately, his face was white and
                        he spoke quietly with a touch of injured pride.
                    "If you want to hurt us, Miss Williston, that is the way to talk. We cowmen
                        do not do things for thanks."
                    She looked at him wonderingly a moment, then said, simply, "Forgive me," but
                        her lips were trembling and she turned to the wall to hide the tears that
                        would come. After all, she was only a woman with nerves and the reaction had
                        come. She had been brave, but a girl cannot bear everything. She sobbed.
                        That was too much for Langford and his dignity. He bent over her, all his
                        heart in his honest eyes and broken voice.
                    "Now you will kill me if you don't stop it. I am  all sorts of a brute oh, deuce take me for a blundering idiot! I didn't
                        mean it honest I didn't. You will believe me, won't you? There is nothing in
                        the world I wouldn't do for you, little girl."
                    She was sobbing uncontrollably now.
                    "Mr. Langford," she cried, turning to him with something of the past horror
                        creeping again into her wet eyes, "do you think I killed that man?"
                    "What man? There was only one man killed, and one of my boys potted him on
                        the run," he said.
                    "Are you sure?" she breathed, in quick relief.
                    "Dead sure," convincingly.
                    "And yet," she sobbed, memory coming back with a rush, "I wish I wish I had
                        killed them all."
                    "So do I!" he agreed, so forcefully that she could but smile a little,
                        gratefully. She said, with just the faintest suggestion of color in her
                        white cheeks:
                    "Where is everybody? Have you been sitting with me long?"
                    "Mrs. White is getting breakfast, and I haven't been sitting with you as long
                        as I wish I had," he answered, boldly; and then added, regretfully, "Dick
                        was the man who had the luck to watch over you all night. I went to
                        sleep."
                    "You were so tired," she said, sympathizingly. "And besides, I didn't need
                        anything."
                    "It is good of you to put it that way," he said, his heart cutting capers
                        again.
                    
                    "Mr. Gordon is the best man I know," she said, thoughtfully.
                    "There you are right, Miss Williston," he assented, heartily, despite a quick
                        little sting of jealousy. "He is the best man I know. I wish you would shake
                        hands on that will you?"
                    "Surely."
                    He held the smooth brown hand in his firmly with no thought of letting it go
                        yet.
                    "I am not such a bad chap myself, you know, Miss Williston," he jested, his
                        bold eyes flashing a challenge.
                    "I know it," she said, simply. "I do not know what I should do without you.
                        You will be good to me always, won't you? There is no one but me now."
                    She was looking at him trustingly, confident of his friendship, innocent, he
                        knew, of any feminine wile in this her dark hour. The sweetness of it went
                        to his head. He forgot that she was in sorrow he could not cure, forgot that
                        she was looking to him in all probability only as the possible saviour of
                        her father. He forgot everything except the fact that there was nothing in
                        all the world worth while but this brown-eyed, white-cheeked, grieving girl,
                        and he went mad with the quick knowledge thereof. He held the hand he had
                        not released to his face, brushed it against his lips, caressed it against
                        his breast; then he bent forward close and whispering, "I will be good to
                        you always  little girl," kissed her on the
                        forehead and was gone just as Gordon, filled with the life of the new day,
                        came swinging into the house for his well-earned breakfast.
                    The sheriff and his party of deputies made a diligent search for Williston
                        that day and for many days to come. It was of no avail. He had disappeared,
                        and all trace with him, as completely as if he had been spirited away in the
                        night to another world body and soul. That the soul of him had really gone
                        to another world came to be generally believed Mary held no hope after the
                        return of the first expedition; but why could they find no trace of his
                        body? Where was it? Where had it found a resting place? Was it possible for
                        a man, quick or dead, even west of the river in an early day of its
                        civilization when the law had a winking eye, to fall away from his wonted
                        haunts in a night and leave no print, neither a bone nor a rag nor a memory,
                        to give mute witness that this way he passed, that way he rested a bit, here
                        he took horse, there he slept, with this man he had converse, that man saw
                        his still body borne hence? Could such a thing be? It seemed so.
                    After a gallant and dauntless search, which lasted through the best days of
                        September, Langford was forced to let cold reason have its sway. He had
                        thought, honestly, that the ruffians would not dare commit murder, knowing
                        that they were being pursued; but now he was forced to the opinion that they
                             had dared the worst, after all. For,
                        though it would be hard to hide all trace of a dead man, infinitely greater
                        would be the difficulty in covering the trail of a living one, one who must
                        eat and drink, who had a mouth to be silenced and strength to be restrained.
                        It came gradually to him, the belief that Williston was dead; but it came
                        surely. With it came the jeer of the spectre that would not let him forget
                        that he should have foreseen what would surely happen. With it came also a
                        great tenderness for Mary, and a redoubled vigilance to keep his unruly
                        tongue from blurting out things that would hurt her who was looking to him,
                        in the serene confidence in his good friendship, for brotherly counsel and
                        comfort.
                    In the first dark days of his new belief, he spoke to Gordon, and the young
                        lawyer had written a second letter to the "gal reporter." In response, she
                        came at once to Kemah and from thence to the White homestead in the Boss's
                        "own private." This time the Boss did the driving himself, bringing
                        consternation to the heart of one Jim Munson, cow-puncher, who viewed the
                        advent of her and her "mouse-colored hair" with serious trepidation and
                        alarm. What he had dreaded had come to pass. 'T was but a step now to the
                        Three Bars. A fussy woman would be the means of again losing man his Eden.
                        It was monstrous. He sulked, aggrievedly, systematically.
                    Louise slipped into the sad life at the Whites'  easily, sweetly, adaptably. Mary rallied under her gentle ministrations.
                        There was would ever be a haunting pathos in the dark eyes, but she arose
                        from her bed, grateful for any kindness shown her, strong in her
                        determination not to be a trouble to any one by giving way to weak and
                        unavailing tears. If she ever cried, it was in the night, when no one knew.
                        Even Louise, who slept with her, did not suspect the truth for some time.
                        But one night she sat straight up in bed suddenly, out of her sleep, with an
                        indefinable intuition that it would be well for her to be awake. Mary was
                        lying in a strange, unnatural quiet. Instinctively Louise reached out a
                        gentle, consoling hand to her. She was right. Mary was not sleeping. The
                        following night the same thing happened, and the next night also; but one
                        night when she reached over to comfort, she found her gentle intention
                        frustrated by a pillow under which Mary had hidden her head while she gave
                        way guardedly to her pent-up grief.
                    Louise changed her tactics. She took Mary on long walks over the prairie,
                        endeavoring to fatigue her into sleep. The length of these jaunts grew
                        gradually and systematically. It came at last to be an established order of
                        the day for the two girls to strike off early, with a box of luncheon
                        strapped over Louise's shoulder, for nowhere in particular, but always
                        somewhere that consumed the better part of the day in the going and coming.
                        Sometimes the hills and bluffs of the river 
                        region drew them. Sometimes a woman's whim made them hold to a straight line
                        over the level distance for the pure satisfaction of watching the horizon
                        across illimitable space remain stationary and changeless, despite their
                        puny efforts to stride the nearer to it. Sometimes, when they chose the
                        level, they played, like children, that they would walk and walk till the
                        low-lying horizon had to change, until out of its hazy enchantment rose
                        mountain-peaks and forests and valleys and cities. It proved an alluring
                        game. A great and abiding friendship grew out of this wanderlust, cemented by a loneliness that each girl carried
                        closely in the innermost recesses of her heart and guarded jealously there.
                        It was a like loneliness in the littleness and atom-like inconsequence of
                        self each must hug to her breast, and yet, how unlike! Louise was alone in a
                        strange, big land, but there was home for her somewhere, and kin of her own
                        kind to whom she might flee when the weight of alienism pressed too sorely.
                        But Mary was alone in her own land; there was nowhere to flee to when her
                        heart rebelled and cried out in the bitterness of its loneliness; this was
                        her home, and she was alone in it.
                    Louise learned to love the plains country. She revelled in its winds; the
                        high ones, blowing bold and free with their call to throw off lethargy and
                        stay from drifting; the low ones, sighing and rustling through the already
                        dead grass a mournful and whispering lament 
                        
                            LOUISE LOVED TO CLIMB TO THE SUMMIT OF ONE OF THE BARREN
                                 HILLS FLANKING THE RIVER, AND STAND THERE WHILE
                                    THE WIND BLEW.
                            
                        
                         for the Summer gone. She had thought to
                        become reconciled to the winds the last of all. She was a prim little soul
                        with all her sweet graciousness, and dearly desired her fair hair ever to be
                        in smooth and decorous coil or plait. Strangely enough, the winds won her
                        first allegiance. She loved to climb to the summit of one of the barren
                        hills flanking the river and stand there while the wind just blew and blew.
                        Loosened tendrils of hair bothered her little these days. She relegated hats
                        and puny, impotent hat-pins to oblivion. Her hair roughened and her fair
                        skin tanned, but neither did these things bother her. It was the strength of
                        the wind and the freedom, and because it might blow where it listed without
                        regard to the arbitrary and self-important will of strutting man, that
                        enthralled her imagination. It came about that the bigness and loneliness of
                        this big country assumed a like aspect. It was not yet subjugated. The
                        vastness of it and the untrammelled freedom of it, though it took her girl's
                        breath away, was to dwell with her forever, a sublime memory, even when the
                        cow country unsubjugated was only a retrospection of silver hairs.
                    Mary, because of her abounding health, healed of her wound rapidly. Langford
                        took advantage of the girls' absorption in each other's company to ride
                        often and at length on quests of his own creation. With October, Louise must
                        join Judge Dale for the Autumn term of court. He haunted the hills. He was
                        not  looking now for a living man; he was
                        seeking a cleverly concealed grave. He flouted the opinion held by many that
                        the body had been thrown into the Missouri and would wash ashore some later
                        day many and many a mile below. He held firmly to his fixed idea that
                        impenetrable mystery clouding the ultimate close of Williston's earthly
                        career was the sought aim of his murderers, and they would risk no river's
                        giving up its dead to their undoing.
                    It had been ascertained beyond reasonable doubt that Williston could not have
                        left the country in any of the usual modes. His description was at all the
                        stations along the line, together with the theory that he would be leaving
                        under compulsion.
                    Meanwhile, Gordon had buckled down for the big fight. He was sadly
                        handicapped, with the whole prop of his testimony struck from under him by
                        Williston's disappearance. However, those who knew him best the number was
                        not large looked for things to happen in those days. They, the few, the
                        courageous minority, through all the ups and downs with the balance in favor
                        of the downs most of the time of the hardest-fought battle of his life, the
                        end of which left him gray at the temples, maintained a deep and abiding
                        faith in this quiet, unassuming young man, who had squared his shoulders to
                        this new paralyzing blow and refused to be knocked out, who walked with them
                        and talked with them, but  kept his own
                        counsel, abided his time, and in the meantime worked.
                    One day, Langford was closeted with him for a long two hours in his dingy,
                        one-roomed office on the ground floor. The building was a plain wooden
                        affair with its square front rising above the roof. In the rear was a
                        lean-to where Gordon slept and had his few hours of privacy.
                    "It won't do, Paul," Gordon said in conclusion. "I have thought it all out.
                        We have absolutely nothing to go upon nothing at least but our own
                        convictions and a bandaged arm, and they won't hang a man with Jesse's
                        diabolical influence. We'll fight it out on the sole question of 'Mag,'
                        Paul. After that well who knows? Something else may turn up. There may be
                        developments. Meanwhile, just wait. There will be justice for Williston
                        yet."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    MRS. HIGGINS RALLIES TO HER COLORS
                    THE Kemah County Court convened on a Tuesday, the second week in December.
                        The Judge coming with his court reporter to Velpen on Monday found the river
                        still open. December had crept softly to its appointed place in the march of
                        months with a gentle heralding of warm, southwest winds.
                    "Weather breeder," said Mrs. Higgins of the Bon Ami, with a mournful shake of
                        her head. "You mark my words and remember I said it. It's a sorry day for
                        the cows when the river's running in December."
                    She was serving the judicial party herself, and capably, too. She dearly
                        loved the time the courts met, on either side of the river. It brought many
                        interesting people to the Bon Ami, although not often the Judge. His coming
                        for supper was a most unusual honor, and it was due to Louise, who had
                        playfully insisted. He had humored her much against his will, it must be
                        confessed; for he had a deeply worn habit of making straight for the hotel
                        from the station and there remaining until Hank Bruebacher, liveryman, who
                        never permitted anything to interfere with or any one  to usurp his prerogative of driving his honor to and from
                        Kemah when court was in session, whistled with shameless familiarity the
                        following morning to make his honor cognizant of the fact that he, Hank, was
                        ready. But he had come to the Bon Ami because Louise wished it, and he
                        reflected whimsically on the astonishment, amounting almost to horror, on
                        the face of his good landlord at the Velpen House when it became an assured
                        fact that he was not and had not been in the dining-room.
                    "You are right, Mrs. Higgins," assented the Judge gravely to her weather
                        predictions, "and the supper you have prepared for us is worthy the hand
                        that serves it. Kings and potentates could ask no better. Louise, dear
                        child, I am fond of you and I hope you will never go back East."
                    "Thank you, Uncle Hammond," said Louise, who knew that an amusing thought was
                        seeping through this declaration of affection. "I am sorry to give you a
                        heartache, but I am going back to God's country some day, nevertheless."
                    "Maybe so maybe not," said the Judge. "Mrs. Higgins, my good woman, how is
                        our friend, the canker-worm, coming on these days?"
                    "Canker-worm?" repeated Mrs. Higgins. "Meanin', your honor "
                    "Just what I say canker-worm. Isn't he the worm gnawing in discontent at the
                        very core of the  fair fruit of established
                        order and peace in the cow country?"
                    "I I don't understand, your honor," faltered the woman, in great trepidation.
                        Would his honor consider her a hopeless stupid? But what was the man talking
                        about? Louise looked up, a flush of color staining her cheeks.
                    "Maybe fire-brand would suit you better, madame? My young friend, the
                        fire-brand," resumed the Judge, rising. "That is good fire-brand. Is he not
                        inciting the populace to 'open rebellion, false doctrine, and schism'? Is it
                        not because of him that roofs are burned over the very heads of the helpless
                        homesteader?"
                    "For shame, Uncle Hammond," exclaimed Louise, still flushed and with a
                        mutinous little sparkle in her eyes. "You are poking fun at me. You haven't
                        any right to, you know; but that's your way. I don't care, but Mrs. Higgins
                        doesn't understand."
                    "Don't you, Mrs. Higgins?" asked the Judge.
                    "No, I don't," snapped Mrs. Higgins, and she didn't, but she thought she did.
                        "Only if you mean Mr. Richard Gordon, I'll tell you now there ain't no one
                        in this here God-forsaken country who can hold a tallow candle to him. Just
                        put that in your pipe and smoke it, will you?"
                    She piled up dishes viciously. She did not wait for her guests to depart
                        before she began demolishing the  table. It
                        was a tremendous breach of etiquette, but she didn't care. To have an ideal
                        shattered ruthlessly is ever a heart-breaking thing.
                    "But my dear Mrs. Higgins," expostulated the Judge.
                    "You needn't," said that lady, shortly. "I don't care," she went on, "if the
                        president himself or an archangel from heaven came down here and plastered
                        Dick Gordon with bad-smellin' names from the crown of his little toe to the
                        tip of his head, I'd tell 'em to their very faces that they didn't know what
                        they was a talkin' about, and what's more they'd better go back to where
                        they belong and not come nosin' round in other people's business when they
                        don't understand one single mite about it. We don't want'm puttin' their
                        fingers in our pie when they don't know a thing about us or our ways. That's
                        my say," she closed, with appalling significance, flattering herself that no
                        one could dream but that she was dealing in the most offhand generalities.
                        She was far too politic to antagonize, and withal too good a woman not to
                        strike for a friend. She congratulated herself she had been true to all her
                        gods and she had been.
                    Louise smiled in complete sympathy, challenging the Judge meanwhile with
                        laughing eyes. But the Judge he was still much of a boy in spite of his
                        grave calling and mature years just threw back his blonde head and shouted
                        in rapturous glee. He laughed till  the very
                        ceiling rang in loud response; laughed till the tears shone in his big blue
                        eyes. Mrs. Higgins looked on in undisguised amazement, hands on hips.
                    "Dear me, suz!" she sputtered, "is the man gone clean daffy?"
                    "Won't you shake hands with me, Mrs. Higgins?" he asked, gravely. "I ask your
                        pardon for my levity, and I assure you there isn't a man in the whole world
                        I esteem more or hold greater faith in than Dick Gordon or love so much. I
                        thank you for your championship of him. I would that he had more friends
                        like you. Louise, are you ready?"
                    Their walk to the hotel was a silent one. Later, as she was leaving him to go
                        to her own room, Louise laid her head caressingly on her uncle's sleeve.
                    "Uncle Hammond," she said, impulsively, "you are incorrigible, but you are
                        the best man in all the world."
                    "The very best?" he asked, smilingly.
                    "The very best," she repeated, firmly.
                    There was a full calendar that term, and the close of the first week found
                        the court still wrestling with criminal cases, with that of Jesse Black yet
                        uncalled. Gordon reckoned that Black's trial could not possibly be taken up
                        until Tuesday or Wednesday of the following week. Long before that, the town
                        began filling up for the big rustling case. There were other rustling cases
                        on the criminal docket, but they paled before this one  where the suspected leader of a gang was on trial. The
                        interested and the curious did not mean to miss any part of it. They began
                        coming in early in the week. They kept coming the remainder of that week and
                        Sunday as well. Even as late as Monday, delayed range riders came scurrying
                        in, leaving the cattle mostly to shift for themselves. The Velpen
                        aggregation, better informed, kept to its own side of the river pretty
                        generally until the Sunday, at least, should be past.
                    The flats southeast of town became the camping grounds for those unable to
                        find quarters at the hotel, and who lived too far out to make the nightly
                        ride home and back in the morning. They were tempted by the unusually mild
                        weather. These were mostly Indians and half-breeds, but with a goodly
                        sprinkling of cowboys of the rougher order. Camp-fires spotted the plain,
                        burning redly at night. There was plenty of drift-wood to be had for the
                        hauling. Blanketed Indians squatted and smoked around their fires a revival
                        of an older and better day for them. Sometimes they stalked majestically
                        through the one street of the town.
                    The judicial party was safely housed in the hotel, with the best service it
                        was possible for the management to give in this busy season of congested
                        patronage. It was impossible to accommodate the crowds. Even the office was
                        jammed with cots at night. Mary Williston had come in from White's to be
                        with Louise.  She was physically strong again,
                        but ever strangely quiet, always sombre-eyed.
                    "What shall I do, Louise?" she asked, one night. They were sitting in
                        darkness. From their east window they could see the gleaming red splotches
                        that were fires on the flat.
                    "What do you mean, Mary?" asked Louise, dreamily. She was thinking how much
                        sterner Gordon grew every day. He still had a smile for his friends, but he
                        always smiled under defeat. That is what hurt so. She had noticed that very
                        evening at supper how gray his hair was getting at the temples. He had
                        looked lonely and sad. Was it then all so hopeless?
                    "I mean, to make a living for myself," Mary answered, earnestly. "There is no
                        one in the world belonging to me now. There were only father and I. What
                        shall I do, Louise?"
                    "Mary, dear, dear Mary, what are you thinking of doing?"
                    "Anything," she answered, her proud reticence giving way before her need,
                        "that will keep me from the charity of my friends. The frock I have on,
                        plain as it is, is mine through the generosity of Paul Langford. The bread I
                        eat he pays for. He he lied to me, Louise. He told me the cowmen had made a
                        purse for my present needs. They hadn't. It was all from him. I found out.
                        Mrs. White is poor. She can't keep a great, strapping girl like me for
                        nothing. I am such  a hearty eater, and he has
                        been paying her, Louise, for what I ate. Think of it! I thought I should die
                        when I found it out. I made her promise not to take another cent from him
                        for me. So I have been working to make it up. I have washed and ironed and
                        scrubbed and baked. I was man of affairs at the ranch while Mr. White went
                        out with the gang for the Fall round-up. I have herded. But one has to have
                        things besides one's bread. The doctor was paid out of that make-believe
                        purse, but it must all be made up to Paul Langford every cent of it."
                    "Mr. Langford would be very much hurt if you should do that," began Louise,
                        slowly. "It was because of him, you know, primarily, that "
                    "He owes me nothing," interrupted Mary, sharply.
                    "Oh," said Louise, smiling in the dark.
                    "I believe I could teach school," went on Mary, with feverish haste, "if I
                        could get a school to teach."
                    "I should think Mr. Gordon could help you to secure a place here," said
                        Louise.
                    "I have not told Mr. Gordon my troubles," said Mary, gravely. "I should not
                        dream of intruding with such petty affairs while his big fight is on his
                        glorious fight. He will avenge my father. Nothing matters but that. He has
                        enough to bear without a woman's trivial grievances."
                    "But he would be glad to take that little trouble for you if he knew,"
                        persisted Louise. She was feeling  small and
                        of little worth in the strength of Mary's sweeping independence. She was
                        hauntingly sure that in like circumstances she would be weak enough to take
                        her trouble to a man like Gordon, for instance. It came to her, there in the
                        dark, that maybe he loved Mary. She had no cause to wonder, if this were
                        true. Mary was fine beautiful, lovable, stanch and true and capable, and he
                        had known her long before he knew there was such a creature in existence as
                        the insignificant, old-maidenish, mouse-haired reporter from the East. The
                        air of the room suddenly became stifling. She threw open a window. The soft,
                        damp air of the cloudy, warm darkness floated in and caressed her hot
                        cheeks. Away, away over yonder, beyond the twinkling camp-fires on the flat,
                        across the river, away to the east, were her childhood's home and her kin.
                        Here were the big, unthinking, overbearing cow country and the man who loved
                        Mary Williston, maybe.
                    It was getting late bedtime. Men were shuffling noisily through the hall on
                        their way to their rooms. Scraps of conversation drifted in to the two
                        girls.
                    "He's a fool to make the try without Williston."
                    "It takes some folks a mighty long time to learn their place in this here
                        county."
                    "Well, I reckon he thinks the county kin afford to stand good for his fool
                        play."
                    "He'll learn his mistake when Jesse gets out."
                    "Naw! Not the ghost of a show!"
                    
                    "He'd ought to be tarred and feathered and shot full o' holes, and shipped
                        back to where he come from to show his kind how we deal with plumb idjits
                        west o' the river."
                    "Well, he'll dance a different stunt 'gainst this is over."
                    "You bet! Jesse'll do his stunt next."
                    And then they heard the lazy doctor's voice drawling, "Mebby so, but let's
                        wait and see, shall we?"
                    Men's minds were set unshiftingly on this coming trial. How Gordon would have
                        to fight for a fair jury!
                    "I think it is as you said," said Mary, presently. "Mr. Langford feels he
                        owes me bread and clothes. He is anxious to pay off the debt so there will
                        be nothing on his conscience. He owes me nothing, nothing, Louise, but he is
                        a man and he thinks he can pay off any obligation he may feel."
                    "That is a harsh motive you ascribe to Mr. Langford," said Louise, closing
                        the window and coming to sit affectionately at Mary's feet. "I don't think
                        he means it in that way at all. I think it is a fine and delicate and manly
                        thing he has done. He did not intend for you to know or any one. And don't
                        you think, Mary, that the idea of making up a purse should have come from
                        some one else just as he tried to make you believe? It was not done, so what
                        was left for Mr. Langford to do? He had promised to see your father through.
                        He was glad to do it. I  think it was fine of
                        him to do what he did the way he did it."
                    She had long thought the Boss dreamed dreams of Mary. She was more sure of it
                        than ever to-night. And now if Gordon did, too well, Mary was worth it. But
                        she would be sorry for one of them some day. They were fine men both of
                        them.
                    "But I shall pay him back every cent," replied Mary, firmly. "He owes me
                        nothing, Louise, nothing, I tell you. I will not accept alms of him. You see
                        that I couldn't, don't you?"
                    "I know he does not feel he owes you anything in the way you are accusing
                        him," answered Louise, wisely. "He is doing this because you are you and he
                        cannot bear to think of you suffering for things when he wants to help you
                        more than he could dare to tell you now. Mary, don't you see? I think, too,
                        you must pay him back some day, but don't worry about it. You would hurt him
                        too much if you do not take plenty of time to get strong and well before
                        repaying him paltry dollars. There will be a way found, never fear.
                        Meanwhile you can amuse yourself correcting my transcripts to keep you
                        content till something turns up, and we will make
                        something turn up. Wait until this term is over and don't fret. You won't
                        fret, will you?"
                    "I will try not to, Louise," said Mary, with a little weary gesture of
                        acquiescence.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    CHANNEL ICE
                    A JOLLY party set off for Velpen Sunday morning. Hank Bruebacher had remained
                        over night on purpose to escort them to the river in his 'bus. It had been
                        caught on the wrong side. The channel had closed over about the middle of
                        the week. The ice had been very thin at first; there had been no drop of the
                        thermometer, but a gradual lowering night after night had at last made men
                        deem it safe to cross on foot. A rumor to this effect had drifted in to the
                        tired jurors hanging around and killing time, waiting to be called. Sunday
                        in Kemah was impossible to many. Besides, they had had a week of it. They
                        were sure of a good dinner at Velpen. where there had been no such fearful
                        inroads on the supplies, and the base of whose supplies, moreover, was not
                        cut off as it was at Kemah by the closing of the river, which was not yet
                        solid enough for traffic. That consideration held weight with many. Saloon
                        service was a little better, and that, too, had its votaries. Business
                        appointments actuated Gordon and perhaps a few others. Ennui pure and simple moved the Court and the Court's
                        assistant.
                    
                    It was about ten in the morning. It was frosty, but bright, and the little
                        cold snap bade fair to die prematurely. It surely was wonderful weather for
                        South Dakota.
                    "Where is Mary?" asked the Judge, as Louise came lightly down the stairs,
                        ready to put on her gloves.
                    "She went out to the Whites' an hour or so ago to do the week's washing, I
                        suspect. Mr. Langford took her out."
                    "Louise! On Sunday!" Even the tolerant Judge was shocked.
                    "It's true, Uncle Hammond," persisted Louise, earnestly.
                    She wore a modish hat that was immensely becoming, and looked charming.
                        Gordon stood at the worn, wooden steps, hat off, despite the nipping air,
                        waiting to assist her to the place the gallant Hank had reserved for
                        her.
                    He sat down at her right, Judge Dale at her left. The jurymen filled the
                        other places rapidly. The heavy wagon lurched forward. The road was good;
                        there had been no snows or thaws. Now was Hank in his element. It is very
                        probable that he was the most unreservedly contented man in seven States
                        that fair Sunday morning always excepting Munson of the Three Bars. A few
                        straggling buckboards and horsemen brought up the rear. Judge Dale, taking
                        to himself as much room as it was possible to confiscate with  elbows slyly pressed outward
                        chickenwing-wise, fished out his newspaper leisurely, leaned over Gordon to
                        say in a matter-of-fact voice, "Just amuse Louise for a little while, will
                        you, Dick, while I glance at the news; you won't have to play, just talk,
                        she likes to talk," and buried himself in the folds of the jiggling paper;
                        much jiggled because Hank had no intention of permitting any vehicle to pass
                        the outfit of which the Judge was passenger while he, Hank Bruebacher, held
                        the reins. He was an authority of the road, and as such, he refused to be
                        passed by anything on wheels.
                    The rattle of the wagon drowned all coherent conversation. The Judge's
                        outspread arms had forced Louise very close to her neighbor on the right,
                        who had the instructions to keep her amused, but even then he must bend his
                        head if he were to obey orders strictly and talk. He chose to obey. Last
                        night, he had been worn out with the strain of the week; he had not been
                        able to forget things. To-day, well, to-day was to-day.
                    "Are you going to hear the bishop?" asked Louise. It was a little hard to
                        make conversation when every time one lifted one's eyes one found one's self
                        so startlingly close to a man's fine face.
                    "Surely!" responded Gordon. "An incomparable scholar an indefatigable workman
                        truest of saints."
                    There was grave reverence in his lowered voice.
                    "You know him well?"
                    
                    "Yes. I see him often in his Indian mission work. He is one of the best
                        friends I have."
                    The river gleamed with a frozen deadness alongside. The horses' hoofs pounded
                        rhythmically over the hardened road. Opposite, a man who had evidently found
                        saloon service in Kemah pretty good, but who doubtless would put himself in
                        a position to make comparisons as soon as ever his unsteady feet could carry
                        him there, began to sing a rollicking melody in a maudlin falsetto.
                    "Shut up!" One of the men nudged him roughly.
                    "Right you are," said the singer, pleasantly, whose name was Lawson. "It is
                        not seemly that we lift up our voices in worldly melody on this holy day and
                        in the presence of a lady," with an elaborate bow and a vacant grin that
                        made Louise shrink closer to the Judge. "I suggest we all join in a sacred
                        song." He followed up his own suggestion with a discordant burst of "Yes, we
                        will gather at the river."
                    "He means the kind o' rivers they have in the 'Place around the Corner,'"
                        volunteered Hank, turning around with a knowing wink. "They have rivers
                        there plenty of 'em only none of 'em ever saw water."
                    "I tell you, shut up," whispered the man who had first chided. "Can't you see
                        there's a lady present? No more monkey-shines or we'll oust you. Hear?"
                    "I bow to the demands of the lady," said Lawson, subsiding with happy
                        gallantry.
                    
                    "You have many 'best friends' for a man who boasted not so long ago that he
                        stood alone in the cow country," said Louise, resuming the interrupted
                        conversation with Gordon.
                    "He is one of the fingers," retorted Gordon. "I confessed to one hand, you
                        will remember."
                    "Let me see," said Louise, musingly. She began counting on her own daintily
                        gloved hand.
                    "Mrs. Higgins is the thumb, you said?" questioningly.
                    "Yes."
                    "Mr. Langford is the first finger, of course?"
                    "Of course."
                    "And Uncle Hammond is the middle finger?"
                    "You have said it."
                    "And the bishop is the third finger?"
                    "He surely is."
                    "And and Mary is the next?"
                    "Sorceress! You have guessed all right."
                    "Then where am I?" she challenged, half in earnest, half in fun. "You might
                        have left at least the little finger for me."
                    He laughed under his breath an unsteady sort of laugh, as if something had
                        knocked at his habitual self-control. There was only one answer to that gay,
                        mocking challenge only one and that he could not give. He forgot for a
                        little while that there were other people in the wagon. The poor babbling,
                             grinning man across the way was not the
                        only drunken man therein. Only one answer, and that to draw the form closer
                        closer to him against his heart for there was where she belonged. Fingers?
                        What did he care for fingers now? He wanted to lay his face down against her
                        soft hair it was so perilously near. If only he might win in his fight! But
                        even so, what would it matter? What could there ever be for her in this
                        cruel, alien land? She had been so kindly and lovingly nurtured. In her
                        heart nestled the home call for all time. She was bound in its meshes. They
                        would draw her sooner or later to her sure and inevitable destiny. And what
                        was there for him elsewhere after all these years? Kismet. He drew a long
                        breath.
                    "I'm a poor maverick, I suppose, marked with no man's friendship. But you see
                        I'm learning the language of the brotherhood. Why don't you compliment me on
                        my adaptability?"
                    She looked up smilingly. She was hurt, but he should never know it. And he,
                        because of the pain in him, answered almost roughly:
                    "It is not a language for you to learn. You will never learn. Quit trying.
                        You are not like us."
                    She, because she did not understand, felt the old homesick choking in her
                        throat, and remembered with a reminiscent shudder of the first awful time
                        she had spun along that road. Everybody seemed to spin  in this strange land. She felt herself longing for the fat,
                        lazy, old jogging horses of her country home. Horses couldn't hurry there
                        because the hills were too many and the roads too heavy. These lean, shaggy,
                        range-bred horses were diabolical in their predilection for going. Hank's
                        surely were no exception to the rule. He pulled them up with a grand
                        flourish at the edge of the steep incline leading directly upon the pontoon
                        that bridged the narrowed river on the Kemah side of the island, and they
                        stopped dead still with the cleanness worthy of cow ponies. The suddenness
                        of the halt precipitated them all into a general mix-up. Gordon had braced
                        himself for the shock, but Louise was wholly unprepared. She was thrown
                        violently against him. The contact paled his face. The soft hair he had
                        longed to caress in his madness brushed his cheek. He shivered.
                    "Oh!" cried Louise, laughing and blushing, "I wasn't expecting that!"
                    Most of the men were already out and down on the bridge. A lone pedestrian
                        was making his way across.
                    "All safe?" queried Judge Dale, as he came up.
                    "A little thin over the channel, but all safe if you cross a-foot."
                    "Suppose we walk across the island," suggested the Judge, who occasionally
                        overcame his indolence in spasmodic efforts to counteract his growing
                        portliness,  "and our friend. Hank will meet
                        us here in the morning."
                    So it was agreed. The little party straggled gayly across the bridge. The
                        walk across the island was far from irksome. The air was still bracing,
                        though rags of smoky cloud were beginning to obscure the sun. The gaunt
                        cottonwoods stood out in sombre silhouette against the unsoftened bareness
                        of the winter landscape. Louise was somewhat thoughtful and pensive since
                        her little attempt to challenge intimacy had been so ungraciously received.
                        To Gordon, on the other hand, had come a strange, new exhilaration. His
                        blood bounded joyously through his veins. This was his day he would live it
                        to the dregs. To-morrow, and renunciation well, that was to-morrow. He could
                        not even resent, as, being a man, he should have resented, the unwelcome and
                        ludicrous attentions of the drunken singer to the one woman in the crowd,
                        because whenever the offender came near, Louise would press closer to him,
                        Gordon, and once, in her quick distaste to the proximity of the man, she
                        clutched Gordon's coat-sleeve nervously. It was the second time he had felt
                        her hand on his arm. He never forgot either. But the man received such a
                        withering chastisement from Gordon's warning eyes that he ceased to molest
                        until the remainder of the island road had been traversed.
                    Then men looked at each other questioningly. A 
                        long, narrow, single-plank bridge stretched across the channel. It was not
                        then so safe as report would have it. The boards were stretched lengthwise
                        with a long step between each board and the next. What was to be done? Hank
                        had gone long since. No one coveted the long walk back to Kemah. Every one
                        did covet the comfort or pleasure upon which each had set his heart. Gordon,
                        the madness of his intoxication still upon him, constituted himself master
                        of ceremonies. He stepped lightly upon the near plank to reconnoitre. He
                        walked painstakingly from board to board. He was dealing in precious freight
                        he would draw no rash conclusions. When he had reached what he considered
                        the middle of the channel, he returned and pronounced it in his opinion
                        safe, with proper care, and advised strongly that no one step upon a plank
                        till the one in front of him had left it. Thus the weight of only one person
                        at a time would materially lessen the danger of the ice's giving way. So the
                        little procession took up its line of march.
                    Gordon had planned that Louise should follow her uncle and he himself would
                        follow Louise; thus he might rest assured that there would be no
                        encroachment upon her preserves. The officious songster, contrary to orders,
                        glided ahead of his place when the line of march was well taken up usurping
                        anybody's plank at will, and trotting along over the bare ice until finally
                        he drew alongside Louise with an amiable grin.
                    
                    "I will be here ready for emergencies," he confided, meaningly. "You need not
                        be afraid. If the ice breaks, I will save you."
                    "Get back, you fool," cried Gordon, fiercely.
                    "And leave this young lady alone? Not so was I brought up, young man,"
                        answered Lawson, with great dignity. "Give me your hand, miss, I will steady
                        you."
                    Louise shrank from his touch and stepped back to the end of her plank.
                    "Get on that plank, idiot!" cried Gordon, wrathfully. "And if you dare step
                        on this lady's board again, I'll wring your neck. Do you hear?"
                    He had stepped lightly off his own plank for a moment while he drew Louise
                        back to it. The ice gave treacherously, and a little pool of water showed
                        where his foot had been. Louise faltered.
                    "It it flows so fast," she said, nervously.
                    "It is nothing," he reassured her. "I will be more careful another time."
                    It was a perilous place for two. He hurried her to the next board as soon as
                        the subdued transgressor had left it, he himself holding back.
                    It was indeed an odd procession. Dark figures balanced themselves on the slim
                        footing, each the length of a plank from the other, the line seeming to
                        stretch from bank to bank. It would have been ludicrous had it not been for
                        the danger, which all realized. Some half-grown boys, prowling along the
                        Velpen shore  looking for safe skating, gibed
                        them with flippant rudeness.
                    Lawson took fire.
                    "Whoop 'er up, boys," he yelled, waving his hat enthusiastically.
                    He pranced up gayly to the Judge, tripping along on the bare ice.
                    "Your arm, your honor," he cried. "It is a blot on my escutcheon that I have
                        left you to traverse this danger-bristling way alone you, the Judge. But
                        trust me. If the ice breaks, I will save you. I swim like a fish."
                    "My friend," said Dale, fixing on him eyes of calm disapproval, "if you are
                        the cause of my being forced to a cold-water plunge bath against my wishes,
                        I will sentence you to the gallows. Now go!"
                    He went. He was hurt, but he was not deterred. He would wait for the lady. A
                        gentleman could do no less. Louise stopped. Gordon stopped. The whole back
                        line stopped. Each man stood to his colors and his plank. Louise, glancing
                        appealingly over her shoulder, gave an hysterical little laugh.
                    "Move on!" cried Gordon, impatiently.
                    Instead of moving on, however, Lawson came confidently toward Louise. She
                        stifled a little feminine scream in her handkerchief and stepped hastily
                        backward.
                    "Don't be afraid," said Lawson.
                    
                    Gordon repressed a rising oath, and cried out, "If you dare ," but Lawson had
                        already dared. His heavy step was upon Louise's frail support. She thought
                        shudderingly, intuitively, of the dark, swift, angry current under its thin
                        veneer of ice the current that was always hungry and ate islands and fertile
                        fields in ravenous mouthfuls. She ran back to the end of her plank.
                    "Have no fear," said the drunken man, blandly. He stepped to the bare ice at
                        her side. "A man can't walk pigeon-toed always," he confided. "Besides,
                        there's not a particle of danger. These fools are making a mountain of a
                        mole-hill."
                    Gordon came forward quickly.
                    "Run ahead, Miss Dale, I'll tend to this fellow," he said.
                    He extended a firm hand. He meant to clutch the man, shove him behind, and
                        keep him there. But at that moment the ice began to give under Lawson's
                        clumsy feet. A look of blank, piteous helplessness came into his drunken
                        eyes as he felt the treacherous ice sinking beneath him. He tottered, then,
                        with frantic, unthinking haste, and sprang to the plank, but it, too, began
                        to sink. He laid desperate hold of the girl.
                    "Save me!" he shrieked.
                    Louise was conscious only of a quick, awful terror, a dreadful horror of
                        swaying and sinking, and then she  was muffled
                        against a rough coat, strong arms clasped her tightly and bore her backward.
                        Shivering, she hid her face in the coat, clutching the lapels with nervous
                        strength.
                    "You'll spoil your Sunday clothes," she moaned, trying desperately to be calm
                        and sensible.
                    And Gordon held her at last as he had dreamed in his mad moments of holding
                        her close against his heart in the place he had not dared to tell her he had
                        already put her. His face was pressed against the fair hair that he had
                        longed with an indescribable longing to caress such a short time ago. His
                        lips brushed the soft strands with infinite tenderness. Now was his dream
                        come true. This day was his. No one might take it from him. To-morrow, but
                        that was tomorrow. To-day was his. He would live it to the end. Closer he
                        held her, the dear woman, there was no one else in all the world. When he
                        released her, she was confronting a man whose face was as white as the ice
                        around them.
                    "Is this the last of us?" she questioned, tremulously.
                    He flung his arm over her shoulders again. He did not know exactly what he
                        did. Men were coming forward rapidly, aware that a great tragedy had
                        threatened, had been averted. Dale was hastily retracing his steps. Lawson
                        had crawled to a place of safety on a forward plank after having been flung
                        out of the way by  Gordon in his swift rush
                        for Louise. He was grinning foolishly, but was partially sobered by the
                        shock.
                    "Back! All of you!" cried Gordon, imperiously. He was very pale, but he had
                        regained his self-control. "Idiots! Do you want another accident? Back to
                        your places! We'll have to go around."
                    The ice was broken in many spots. Louise had really gone through, but so
                        quick had been her rescue that she escaped with wet feet only. By making a
                        portable bridge of two of the planks, they skirted the yawning hole in
                        safety. It was a more dangerous undertaking now that two must stand on a
                        plank at the same time. Luckily, the greater number were ahead when the
                        accident occurred. It was not much past noon, but Gordon's day was ended. It
                        was as if the sun had gone down on it. He found no opportunity to speak to
                        Louise again, and the to-morrow, his tomorrow, had come. But the one day had
                        been worth while.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE GAME IS ON
                    CONTRARY to expectation, the case of the State of South Dakota against Jesse
                        Black was called soon after the sitting of the court Monday afternoon. No
                        testimony was introduced, however, until the following day. Inch by inch,
                        step by step, Gordon fought for a fair jury through that tense afternoon.
                        Merciless in his shrewd examination, keen to detect hesitancy, prejudices
                        sought to be concealed he cleverly and relentlessly unearthed. Chair after
                        chair was vacated, only to be vacated again. It seemed there was not a man
                        in the county who had not heard somewhat of this much-heralded crime if
                        crime it were. And he who had heard was a prejudiced partisan. How could it
                        be otherwise where feeling ran so high, where honest men mostly felt
                        resentment against the man who dared to probe the wound without extracting
                        the cause of it, and a hatred and fear curiously intermingled with
                        admiration of the outlaw whose next move after obtaining his freedom might
                        be to cut out of the general herd, cows of their own brands, where tainted
                        men, officers or cowmen, awaited developments with a consuming interest that
                             was not above manipulating the lines of
                        justice for their own selfish ends? Yet, despite the obstacles in the way,
                        Gordon was determined to have an unprejudiced jury in so far as it lay in
                        human power to seat such a one in the box. So he worked, and worked
                        hard.
                    This impanelling of the jury was not interesting to the crowd. Many had no
                        hint of its deeper meaning. Others saw it in the light of child's play a
                        certain braggadocio on the part of the young lawyer. They wanted the actual
                        show to begin the examination of witnesses. They came and went restlessly,
                        impatiently waiting. Wiser heads than theirs knew that the game was already
                        on in deadly earnest. If these had been lucky enough to get seats in the
                        small and overcrowded court-room, they remained glued to them. They were
                        waiting to see what manner of men would be chosen Jesse's peers to pass
                        judgment on his acts and mete out for him just deserts if they were capable
                        of a just verdict. The square-jawed, keen-witted, clean-cut captain of
                        justice, who had forgotten that the campaign had aged him irrevocably and
                        that some whitened hair would never grow brown again, meant that they should
                        be capable. The opposing lawyers smiled tolerantly at the numerous
                        challenges. These smiles went far to convince many of the infallibility of
                        their defence. Amused tolerance is a powerful weapon on more fields than one
                        where men war  with their wits. It is a wise
                        man who cultivates the art.
                    "We have chosen the right man," whispered Langford to Mary. They had secured
                        seats near the front and were of those who knew the game was being
                        played.
                    "He is great," returned Mary. If only her father could be there to help! The
                        odds were fearful. Louise, sitting at her table within the bar, with faith
                        in this man's destiny sufficient to remove mountains, smiled down at her
                        friends.
                    "Louise is an angel," said Mary, affectionately.
                    "Yes, she is," responded Langford, absently, for he was not looking at the
                        girl reporter, nor were his thoughts on her side of the rail. He wished for
                        the sake of Williston's "little girl" that there were not so much tobacco
                        stench in the room. But this was a vague and intangible wish. He wished with
                        the whole strength of his manhood which was much that this man on trial
                        might be made to pay the penalty of his crime as a stepping-stone to paying
                        the penalty of that greater crime of which he firmly believed him guilty.
                        His own interest had become strangely secondary since that hot July day when
                        he had pledged himself to vengeance. This falling off might have dated from
                        a certain September morning when he had lost himself for all time to a girl
                        with pain-pinched face and fever-brightened eyes who wore a blue wrapper.
                        His would not be a personal triumph now, if he won.
                    
                    Court adjourned that evening with the jury-box filled. The State's friends
                        were feeling pretty good about it. Langford made his way into the bar where
                        Gordon was standing apart. He passed an arm affectionately over his friend's
                        shoulder.
                    "You were inspired, Dick," he said. "Keep on the same as you have begun and
                        we shall have everything our own way."
                    But the fire had died down in the young lawyer's bearing.
                    "I'm tired, Paul, dead tired," he said, wearily. "I wish it were over."
                    "Come to supper then you'll feel better. You're tired out. It is a tough
                        strain, isn't it?" he said, cheerily. He was not afraid. He knew the fire
                        would burn the brighter again when there was need of it in the morning.
                    They passed out of the bar together. At the hotel, Mary and Louise were
                        already seated at the table in the dining-room where the little party
                        usually sat together when it was possible to do so. Judge Dale had not yet
                        arrived. The landlady was in a worried dispute with Red Sanderson and a
                        companion. The men were evidently cronies. They had their eyes on two of the
                        three vacant places at the table.
                    "But I tell you these places are taken," persisted the landlady, who served
                        as head-waitress when such services were necessary, which was not often. Her
                        patrons  usually took and held possession of
                        things at their own sweet will.
                    "You bet they are," chimed in Red, deliberately pulling out a chair next to
                        Louise, who shivered in recognition.
                    "Please" she began, in a small voice, but got no farther. Something in his
                        bold, admiring stare choked her into silence.
                    "You're a mighty pretty girl, if you are a trottin' round with the Three
                        Bars," he grinned. "Plenty time to change your live "
                    "Just move on, will you," said Gordon, curtly, coming up at that moment with
                        Langford and shoving him aside with unceremonious brevity. "This is my
                        place." He sat down quietly.
                    "You damned upstart," blustered Sanderson. "Want a little pistol play, do
                        you?"
                    "Gentlemen! gentlemen!" implored the landlady.
                    "I'm not entering any objection," said Gordon, coolly. "Just shoot why don't
                        you? You have the drop on me."
                    For a moment it looked as if Sanderson would take him at his word and meet
                        this taunt with instant death for the sender of it, so black was his anger.
                        But encountering Langford's level gaze, he read something therein, shrugged
                        his shoulders, replaced his pistol, and sauntered off with his companion
                        just as Judge Dale came upon the scene. Langford glanced quickly across  the table at Mary. Her eyes were wide with
                        startled horror. She, too, had seen. Just above Red Sanderson's temple and
                        extending from the forehead up into the hair was an ugly scar not like that
                        left by a cut, but as if the flesh might have been deeply bruised by some
                        blunt weapon.
                    "Mary! How pale you are!" cried Louise, in alarm.
                    "I'm haunted by that man," she continued, biting her lip to keep from crying
                        out against the terrors of this country. "He's always showing up in
                        unexpected places. I shall die if I ever meet him alone."
                    "You need not be afraid," said Gordon, speaking quietly from his place at her
                        side. Louise flashed him a swift, bewildering smile of gratitude. Then she
                        remembered she had a grievance against him and she stiffened. But then the
                        feel of his arms came to her the feel that she had scarcely been conscious
                        of yesterday when the dark water lay at her feet, and she blushed, and
                        studied her plate diligently.
                    Under this cover, the young ranchman comforted Mary, whom the others had
                        temporarily forgotten, with a long, caressing look from his handsome eyes
                        that was a pledge of tireless vigilance and an unforgetting watchfulness of
                        future protection.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    THE TRIAL
                    THE next morning, every available seat was filled early. People had blocked
                        the rough plank walks leading to the court-house long before the doors were
                        unlocked. The day promised to be fine, and the many teams coming and going
                        between Kemah and the river to pick up the Velpen people who had crossed the
                        ice on foot gave to the little town somewhat of the gala appearance of fair
                        time. The stately and blanketed Sioux from their temporary camps on the flat
                        were standing around, uncommunicative, waiting for proceedings to begin.
                        Long before the judicial party had arrived from the hotel, the cramped room
                        was crowded to its limits. There was loud talking, laughing, and joking.
                        Local wits amused themselves and others by throwing quips at different
                        members of the county bar or their brethren from across the river, as they
                        walked to their places inside the railings with the little mannerisms that
                        were peculiar to each. Some swaggered with their importance; others bore
                        themselves with a ludicrous and exaggerated dignity; while a refreshing few,
                        with  absolute self-unconsciousness, sat down
                        for the work in hand. The witty cowboys, restrained by no bother-some
                        feelings of delicacy, took off every one in running asides that kept the
                        room in uproar. Men who did not chew tobacco ate peanuts.
                    The door in the rear of the bar opened and Judge Dale entered. A comparative
                        quiet fell upon the people. He mounted to his high bench. The clerk came in,
                        then the court reporter. She tossed her note books on the table, leisurely
                        pulled off her gloves and took her place, examining the ends of her pencils
                        with a critical eye. It would be a busy day for the "gal reporter." Then
                        Langford came shoving his way down the crowded aisle with a sad-faced,
                        brown-eyed, young woman in his wake, who yet held herself erect with a proud
                        little tilt to her chin. There was not an empty seat outside the bar. Louise
                        motioned, and he escorted Mary to a place within and sat down beside her.
                        The jurymen were all in their chairs. Presently came in Gordon with his
                        quiet, self-reliant manner. Langford had been right. The County Attorney was
                        not tired to-day.
                    Shortly after Gordon came Small Small, the dynamic, whose explosives had so
                        often laid waste the weak and abortive independent reasoning powers of "Old
                        Necessity" and his sort, and were the subject of much satire and some
                        admiration when the legal fraternity talked "shop." As he strode to his
                        place, he  radiated bombs of just and telling
                        wrath. He scintillated with aggressiveness. With him came Jesse Black, easy
                        and disdainful as of old. After them, a small man came gliding in with as
                        little commotion as if he were sliding over the floor of a waxed dancing
                        hall in patent-leather pumps. He was an unassuming little man with quick,
                        cat-like movements which one lost if one were not on the alert. When he had
                        slipped into a chair next his associate, Small, the inflammable Small,
                        towered above him head and shoulders.
                    "Every inch the criminal," audibly observed a stranger, an Englishman over to
                        invest in lands for stocking a horse ranch. "Strange how they always wear
                        the imprint on their faces. No escaping it. I fancy that is what the
                        Scriptures meant by the mark of Cain."
                    The remark was addressed to no one in particular, but it reached the ears of
                        Jim Munson, who was standing near.
                    "Good Lord, man!" he said, with a grin, "that's the plumb smartest criminal
                        lawyer in the hull county. That's a fac'. Lord, Lord! Him Jesse Black?"
                    His risibilities continued to thus get the better of his gravity at frequent
                        intervals during the day. He never failed to snort aloud in pure delight
                        whenever he thought of it. What a tale for the boys when he could get to
                        them!
                    "These cattle men!" This time the tenderfoot 
                        communicated with himself he had a square chin and a direct eye; there were
                        possibilities in him. "Their perverted sense of the ridiculous is
                        diabolical."
                    There were others who did not know the little man. He hailed from the
                        southern part of the State. But Gordon knew him. He knew he was pitted
                        against one of the sharpest, shrewdest men of his day.
                    "Gentlemen, I think we are ready," said the Judge, and the game was on
                        again.
                    The State called Paul Langford, its principal witness in default of
                        Williston.
                    "Your name, place of residence, and business?" asked the counsel for the
                        State.
                    "Paul Langford. I reside in Kemah County, and I own and operate a cattle
                        ranch."
                    After Langford had clearly described and identified the animal in question,
                        Gordon continued:
                    "Mr. Langford, when did you first miss this steer?"
                    "On the fifteenth day of July last."
                    "How did you happen to miss this steer?"
                    "My attention was called to the fact that an animal answering this
                        description and bearing my brand had been seen under suspicious
                        detention."
                    "Prior to information thus received, you were not aware this creature had
                        either strayed away or been stolen?"
                    "I was not."
                    "Who gave you this information, Mr. Langford?"
                    
                    "George Williston of the Lazy S."
                    "Now you may tell the jury in what words Williston told you about the steer
                        he saw."
                    This, of course, was objected to and the objection was sustained by the
                        court, as Gordon knew it would be. He only wanted the jury to remember that
                        Williston could have told a damaging story had he been here, and also to
                        remember how mysteriously this same Williston had disappeared. He could not
                        have Williston or Williston's story, but he might keep an impression ever
                        before these twelve men that there was a story he knew it and they knew it,
                        a story of which some crotchet of the law forbade the telling.
                    "What did you do after your attention had been called to the suspicious
                        circumstances of the steer's detention?"
                    "I informed my boys of what I had heard, and sent them out to look for the
                        steer."
                    "That same day?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Were they successful?"
                    "No."
                    "Did this steer have a particular stamping ground?"
                    "He did."
                    "Where was that?"
                    "He always ranged with a bunch on what we call the home range."
                    
                    "Near the ranch house?"
                    "Within half a mile."
                    "Did you look for him yourself?"
                    "I did."
                    "He was not on this home grazing ground?"
                    "He was not."
                    "Did you look elsewhere for him?"
                    "We did."
                    "Where?"
                    "We rode the free ranges for several days wherever any of my cattle held
                        out."
                    "How many days did you say you rode?"
                    "Why, we continued to look sharp until my boy, Munson, found him the day
                        before the preliminary at the Velpen stock-yards, on the point of being
                        shipped to Sioux City."
                    "You went to Velpen to identify this steer?"
                    "I did."
                    "It was your steer?"
                    "Yes."
                    "The same for which you had been searching so long?"
                    "The very same."
                    "It was wearing your brand?"
                    "It was not."
                    "What brand was it wearing?"
                    "J R."
                    "Where was it?"
                    
                    "On the right hip."
                    "Where do you usually put your brand, Mr. Langford?"
                    "On the right hip."
                    "Do you always brand your cattle there?"
                    "Always."
                    "Do you know any J R outfit?"
                    "I do not."
                    Gordon nodded to Small. His examination had been straightforward and to the
                        point. He had drawn alert and confident answers from his witness.
                        Involuntarily, he glanced at Louise, who had not seemed to be working at all
                        during this clean-cut dialogue. She flashed a fleeting smile at him. He knew
                        he was out of sympathy with the great majority of the people down there in
                        front. He did not seem to care so much now. A great medicine is a womanly
                        and an understanding smile. It flushed his face a bit, too.
                    Langford was most unsatisfactory under cross-examination. He never
                        contradicted himself, and was a trifle contemptuous of any effort to tangle
                        him up in threads of his own weaving. The little man touched Small on the
                        arm and whispered to him.
                    "Mr. Langford," said Small, in a weighty voice, "you travel a great deal, I
                        believe?"
                    "I do."
                    "For pleasure, maybe?" with a mysterious inflection.
                    "Partly."
                    
                    "Business as well?"
                    "Business as well."
                    "Just prior to the arrest of the defendant," insinuatingly, "you were
                        away?"
                    "How long prior do you mean?"
                    "Say a week."
                    "No."
                    "Two weeks?"
                    "Yes."
                    "You had been away some time?"
                    "The better part of a year," confessed Langford, with engaging candor.
                    "Yes. Now, Mr. Langford, I should like you to tell me about how many cattle
                        you range in round numbers."
                    "About five thousand head."
                    "Yes. Now, Mr. Langford, you who count your cattle by the thousands, on your
                        own sworn word you have been out of the country a year. Don't you think you
                        are asking this jury to swallow a pretty big mouthful when you ask them to
                        believe that you could so unmistakably distinguish this one poor ornery
                        steer, who has so little to distinguish him from thousands of others?"
                    "I have owned that spotted steer for years," said Langford, composedly. "I
                        have never sold him because he was rather an odd creature and so
                        cantankerous that we dubbed him the Three Bars mascot."
                    
                    Gordon called Jim Munson.
                    "What is your name?"
                    "Gosh!"
                    The question was unexpected. Was there any one in the county who did not know
                        Jim Munson? And Dick Gordon of all people! Then he remembered that the Boss
                        had been asked the same question, so it must be all right. But the ways of
                        the court were surely mysterious and ofttimes foolish.
                    "Jim Munson. Jim Munson's my name yep."
                    Gordon smiled.
                    "You needn't insist on it, Mr. Munson," he advised.
                    "We know it now. Where do you live?"
                    "Hellity damn! I live at the Three Bars ranch."
                    "In Kemah County?"
                    "It sure is."
                    "What is your business, Mr. Munson?"
                    "Jim's shorter, Dick. Well, I work for the Boss, Mr. Paul Langford."
                    "In what capacity?"
                    "If you mean what do I do, why, I ride the range, I punch cows, I always go
                        on the round-up, I'm a fair bronco-breaker and I make up bunks and clean
                        lamp chimblies between times," he recited, glibly, bound to be terse yet
                        explicit, by advice of the Boss.
                    There was a gale of laughter in the bar. Even the Court smiled.
                    "Oh, Jim! Jim! You have perjured yourself 
                        already!" murmured the Boss. "Clean lamp chimneys ye gods!"
                    "Well, grin away!" exploded Jim, his quick ire rising. He had forgotten that
                        Judge Dale's court was not like Justice McAllister's. His fingers fairly
                        itched to draw a pistol and make the scoffers laugh and dance to a little
                        music of his own. But something in Gordon's steady though seemingly careless
                        gaze brought him back to the seriousness of the scene they were playing
                        without guns.
                    The examination proceeded. The air was getting stifling. Windows were thrown
                        open. Damp-looking clouds had arisen from nowhere seemingly and spread over
                        the little prairie town, over the river and the hills. It was very warm.
                        Weather-seasoned inhabitants would have predicted storm had they not been
                        otherwise engaged. There was no breath of air stirring. Mrs. Higgins had
                        said it was a sorry day for the cattle when the river was running in
                        December. Others had said so and so believed, but people were not thinking
                        of the cattle now. One big-boned, long-horned steer held the stage
                        alone.
                    The State proceeded to Munson's identification of the steer in question.
                        After many and searching questions, Gordon asked the witness:
                    "Jim, would you be willing to swear that the steer you had held over at the
                        stock-yards was the very same steer that was the mascot of the Three Bars
                        ranch?"
                    
                    This was Jim's big opportunity.
                    "Know Mag? Swear to Mag? Dick, I would know Mag ef I met him on the golden
                        streets of the eternal city or ef my eyes was full o' soundin' cataracts!
                        Yep."
                    "I am not asking such an impossible feat, Mr. Munson," cut in Gordon, nettled
                        by the digressions of one of his most important witnesses. "Answer briefly,
                        please. Would you be willing to swear?"
                    Jim was jerked back to the beaten track by the sharp incision of Gordon's
                        rebuke. No, this was indeed not Jimmie Mac's court.
                    "Yep," he answered, shortly.
                    Billy Brown was called. After the preliminary questions, Gordon said to
                        him:
                    "Now, Mr. Brown, please tell the jury how you came into possession of the
                        steer."
                    "Well, I was shippin' a couple o' car loads to Sioux City, and I was drivin'
                        the bunch myself with a couple o' hands when I meets up with Jesse Black
                        here. He was herdin' a likely little bunch o' a half dozen or so among 'em
                        this spotted feller. He said he wasn't shippin' any this Fall, but these
                        were for sale part of a lot he had bought from Yellow Wolf. So the upshot of
                        the matter was, I took 'em off his hands. I was just lackin' 'bout that many
                        to make a good, clean, two cars full."
                    "You took a bill-of-sale for them, of course, Mr. Brown?"
                    
                    "I sure did. I'm too old a hand to buy without a bill-o'-sale."
                    The document was produced, marked as an exhibit, and offered in evidence.
                    The hearing of testimony for the State went on all through that day. It was
                        late when the State rested its case so late that the defence would not be
                        taken up until the following day. It was all in for weal or for woe. In some
                        way, all of the State's witnesses with the possible exception of Munson, who
                        would argue with the angel Gabriel at the last day and offer to give him
                        lessons in trumpet-blowing had been imbued with the earnest, honest,
                        straightforward policy of the State's counsel. Gordon's friends were
                        hopeful. Langford was jubilant, and he believed in the tolerable integrity
                        of Gordon's hard-won jury. Gordon's presentation of the case thus far had
                        made him friends; fickle friends maybe, who would turn when the wind turned
                        to-morrow, but true it was that when court adjourned late in the afternoon,
                        many who had jeered at him as a visionary or an unwelcome meddler
                        acknowledged to themselves that they might have erred in their judgment.
                    As on the previous night, Gordon was tired. He walked aimlessly to a window
                        within the bar and leaned against it, looking at the still, oppressive,
                        cloudy dampness outside, with the early December darkness coming on apace.
                        Lights were already twinkling in  kitchens
                        where housewives were busy with the evening meal.
                    "Well, Dick," said Langford, coming up cheery and confident.
                    "Well, Paul, it's all in."
                    "And well in, old man."
                    "I don't know, Paul. I hope so. That quiet little man from down country has
                        not been much heard from, you know. I am afraid, a moral uplift isn't my
                        stunt. I'm tired! I feel like a rag."
                    Langford was called away for a moment. When he returned, Gordon was gone. He
                        was not at supper.
                    "He went away on his horse," explained Louise, in answer to Langford's
                        unspoken question. "I saw him ride into the country."
                    When the party separated for the night, Gordon had not yet returned.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    GORDON RIDES INTO THE COUNTRY
                    GORDON rode aimlessly out of the little town with its twinkling lights. He
                        did not care where he went or what direction he pursued. He wanted to ride
                        off a strange, enervating dejection that had laid hold of him the moment his
                        last testimony had gone in. It all seemed so pitifully inadequate without
                        Williston, now that it was all in. Why had he undertaken it? It could only
                        go for another defeat counted against him. Though what was one defeat more
                        or less when there had been so many? It would be nothing new. Was he not
                        pursuing merely the old beaten trail? Why should the thought weigh so
                        heavily now? Can a man never attain to that higher or lower, which is it?
                        altitude of strifeless, unregretful hardness? Or was it, he asked himself in
                        savage contempt of his weakness, that, despite all his generous and
                        iron-clad resolutions, he had secretly, unconsciously perhaps, cherished a
                        sweet, shy, little reservation in his inmost heart that maybe if he won out 
                    "You poor fool," he said, aloud, with bitter harshness.
                    
                    Suppose he did. A brave specimen, he, if he had the shameful egoism to ask a
                        girl a girl like Louise a gentle, highbred, protected, cherished girl like
                        that to share this new, bleak, rough life with him. But the very sweetness
                        of the thought of her doing it made him gasp there in the darkness. How
                        stifling the air was! He lifted his hat. It was hard to breathe. It was like
                        the still oppressiveness preceding an electrical storm. His mare, unguided,
                        had naturally chosen the main-travelled trail and kept it. She followed the
                        mood of her master and walked leisurely along while the man wrestled with
                        himself.
                    If he really possessed the hardihood to ask Louise to do this for him, she
                        would laugh at him. Stay! That was a lie a black lie. She would not laugh
                        not Louise. She was not of that sort. Rather would she grieve over the
                        inevitable sadness of it. If she laughed, he could bear it better he had
                        good, stubborn, self-respecting blood in him, but she would not laugh. And
                        all the rest of his long life must be spent in wishing wishing if it could
                        have been! But he would never ask her to do it. Not even if the impossible
                        came to pass. It was a hard country on women, a hard, treeless, sun-seared,
                        unkindly country. Men could stand it fight for its future; but not women
                        like Louise. It made men as well as unmade them. And after all it did not
                        prove to be the undoing of men so much as it developed in them the perhaps
                             hitherto hidden fact that they were
                        already wanting. These latent, constitutional weaknesses thus laid bare, the
                        bad must for a while prevail bad is so much noisier than good. But this big,
                        new country with its infinite possibilities give it time it would form men
                        out of raw material and make over men mistakenly made when that was
                        possible, or else show the dividing line so clearly that the goats might not
                        herd with the sheep. Some day, it would be fit for women like Louise. Not
                        now. Much labor and sorrow must be lived through; there must be many
                        mistakes, many experiments tried, there must be much sacrifice and much
                        refining, and many must fall and lose in the race before its big destiny be
                        worked out and it be fit for women like Louise. Down in the southern part of
                        the State, and belonging to it, a certain big barred building sheltered many
                        women, when the sun of the treeless prairies and the gazing into the
                        lonesome distances surrounding their homesteads seeped into their brains and
                        stayed there so that they knew not what they did. There were trees there and
                        fountains and restful blue-grass in season, and flowers, flowers, flowers
                        but these came too late for most of the women
                    Louise was not of that sort. The roughness and the loneliness would simply
                        wear her away and she would die smiling to the last. What leering fate had
                        led her hither to show him what he had missed by choosing  as he had chosen to throw himself into the
                        thankless task of preparing a new country for a future generation? This
                        accomplished, she would flit lightly away and never know the misery she had
                        left behind or the flavor and zest she had filched from the work of one man,
                        at least, who had entered upon it with lofty ambition, high hopes, and
                        immutable purpose. What then would he have wished? That she had not come at
                        all?
                    He smiled. If Louise could have seen that smile, or the almost dewy softness
                        which stole into his eyes the eyes that were too keen for everyday living!
                        That he loved her was the one thing in life worth while. Then why rail at
                        fate? If he had not chosen as he had, he should never have known Louise. He
                        must have gone through life without that dear, exquisite, solemn sense of
                        her in his arms those arms to which it had been given to draw her back from
                        a cruel death. That fulfilment was his for all time. How sweet she was! He
                        seemed to feel again the soft pressure of her clinging arms, remembering how
                        his lips had brushed her fair hair. If it had been Langford, now, who was
                        guilty of so ridiculous a sentimentalism the bold, impetuous, young ranchman
                        he smiled at himself whimsically. Then he pulled himself together. He did
                        not think the jury could believe the story Jesse Black would trump up, no
                        matter how plausible it was made to sound. He felt more like himself,  in better condition to meet those few but
                        stanch friends of his from whom he had so summarily run away, stronger to
                        meet Louise. Man-like, now that he was himself again, he must know the time.
                        He struck a match.
                    "Why, Lena, old girl, we've been taking our time, haven't we? They are likely
                        through supper, but maybe I can wheedle a doughnut out of the cook."
                    The match burned out. Not until he had tossed it away did it come to him that
                        they were no longer on the main trail.
                    "Now, that's funny, old girl," he scolded. "What made you be so unreasonable?
                        Well, we started with our noses westward, so you must have wandered into the
                        old Lazy S branch trail. Though, to be sure, it has been such a deuce of a
                        while since we travelled it that I wonder at you, Lena. Well, we'll just jog
                        back. What's the matter now, silly?"
                    His mare had shied. He turned her nose resolutely, domineeringly, back toward
                        the spot objected to.
                    "I can't see what you're scared at, but we'll just investigate and show you
                        how foolish a thing is feminine squeamishness."
                    A shadowy form arose out of the darkness. It approached.
                    "Is that you, Dick?"
                    Gordon was not a superstitious man, yet he felt suddenly cold to the crown of
                        his head. It was not  so dark as it might have
                        been. There would have been a moon had it not been cloudy. Dimly, he
                        realized that the man had arisen from the ruins of what must have been the
                        old Williston homestead. The outlines of the stone stoop were vaguely
                        visible in the half light. The solitary figure had been crouched there,
                        brooding.
                    "I'm flesh and blood, Dick, never fear," said the man in a mournful voice.
                        "I'm hungry enough to vouch for that. You needn't be afraid. I'm anything
                        but a spirit."
                    "Williston!" The astonished word burst from Gordon's lips. "Williston! Is it
                        really you?"
                    "None other, my dear Gordon! Sorry I startled you. I saw your light and heard
                        your voice speaking to your horse, and as you were the very man I was on the
                        point of seeking, I just naturally came forward, forgetting that my friends
                        would very likely look upon me in the light of a ghost."
                    "Williston! My dear fellow!" repeated Gordon again. "It is too good to be
                        true," he cried, leaping from his mare and extending both hands cordially.
                        "Shake, old man! My, the feel of you is bully. You are flesh and blood all
                        right. You always did have a good, honest shake for a fellow. I don't know,
                        though. Seems to me you have been kind o' running to skin and bones since I
                        last saw you. Grip's good, but bony. You're thinner than ever, aren't
                        you?"
                    All this time he was shaking Williston's hands 
                        heartily. He never thought of asking him where he had been. For weary months
                        he had longed for this man to come back. He had come back. That was enough
                        for the present. He had always felt genuinely friendly toward the
                        unfortunate scholar and his daughter.
                    "That's natural, isn't it? Besides, they forgot my rations sometimes."
                    "Who, Williston?" asked Gordon, the real significance of the man's return
                        taking quick hold of him.
                    "I think you know, Gordon," said the older man, quietly. "It is a long story.
                        I was coming to you. I will tell you everything. Shall I begin now?"
                    "Are you in any danger of pursuit?" asked Gordon, suddenly bethinking
                        himself.
                    "I think not. I killed my jailer, the half-breed, Nightbird."
                    "You did well. So did Mary."
                    "What do you mean?"
                    "Didn't you know that Mary shot and killed one of the desperadoes that night?
                        At least, we have every reason to think it was Mary. By the way, you have
                        not asked after her."
                    The man's head drooped. He did not answer for a long time. When he raised his
                        head, his face, though showing indistinctly, was hard and drawn. He spoke
                        with little emotion as a man who had sounded the gamut of despair and was
                        now far spent.
                    
                    "What was the use? I saw her fall, Gordon. She stood with me to the end. She
                        was a brave little girl. She never once faltered. Dick," he said, his voice
                        changing suddenly, and laying hot, feverish hands on the young man's
                        shoulders, "we'll hang them you and I we'll hang them every one, the devils
                        who look like men, but who strike at women. We'll hang them, I say you and
                        I. I've got the evidence."
                    "Is it possible they didn't tell you?" cried Gordon, aghast at the amazing
                        cruelty of it.
                    "Tell me anything? Not they. She was such a good girl, Dick. There never was
                        a better. She never complained. She never got her screens, poor girl. I wish
                        she could have had her screens before they murdered her. Where did you lay
                        her, Dick?"
                    "Mr. Williston," said Dick, taking firm hold of the man's burning hands and
                        speaking with soothing calmness, "forgive me for not telling you at once. I
                        thought you knew. I never dreamed that you might have been thinking all the
                        while that Mary was dead. She is alive and well and with friends. She only
                        fainted that night. Come, brace up! Why, man alive, aren't you glad? Well,
                        then, don't go to pieces like a child. Come, brace up, I tell you!"
                    "You you wouldn't lie to me, would you, Dick?"
                    "As God is my witness, Mary is alive and in Kemah this minute unless an
                        earthquake has swallowed the  hotel during my
                        absence. I saw her less than two hours ago."
                    "Give me a minute, my dear fellow, will you? I I "
                    He walked blindly away a few steps and sat down once more on the ruins of his
                        homestead. Gordon waited. The man sat still his head buried in his hands.
                        Gordon approached, leading his mare, and sat down beside him.
                    "Now tell me," he said, with simple directness.
                    An hour later, the two men separated at the door of the Whites' claim
                        shanty.
                    "Lie low here until I send for you," was Gordon's parting word.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    FIRE!
                    THE wind arose along toward midnight the wind that many a hardened inhabitant
                        would have foretold hours before had he been master of his time and
                        thoughts. As a rule, no signal service was needed in the cow country. Men
                        who practically lived in the open had a natural right to claim some close
                        acquaintance with the portents of approaching changes. But it would have
                        been well had some storm flag waved over the little town that day. For the
                        wind that came slipping up in the night, first in little sighing whiffs and
                        skirmishes, gradually growing more impatient, more domineering, more utterly
                        contemptuous, haughty, and hungry, sweeping down from its northwest camping
                        grounds, carried a deadly menace in its yet warm breath to the helpless and
                        unprotected cattle huddled together in startled terror or already beginning
                        their migration by intuition, running with the wind.
                    It rattled loose window-casings in the hotel, so that people turned uneasily
                        in their beds. It sent strange creatures of the imagination to prowl about.
                        Cowmen thought of the depleted herds when the riders should  come in off the free ranges in the Spring
                        should that moaning wind mean a real northwester.
                    Louise was awakened by a sudden shriek of wind that swept through the slight
                        aperture left by the raised window and sent something crashing to the floor.
                        She lay for a moment drowsily wondering what had fallen. Was it anything
                        that could be broken? She heard the steady push of the wind against the
                        frail frame building, and knew she ought to compel herself sufficiently to
                        be aroused to close the window. But she was very sleepy. The crash had not
                        awakened Mary. She was breathing quietly and deeply. But she would be
                        amenable to a touch just a light one and she did not mind doing things. How
                        mean, though, to administer it in such a cause. She could not do it. The
                        dilapidated green blind was flapping dismally. What time was it? Maybe it
                        was nearly morning, and then the wind would probably go down. That would
                        save her from getting up. She snuggled under the covers and prepared to slip
                        deliciously off into slumber again.
                    But she couldn't go to sleep after all. A haunting suspicion preyed on her
                        waking faculties that the crash might have been the water pitcher. She had
                        been asleep and could not gauge the shock of the fall. It had seemed
                        terrific, but what awakens one from sleep is always abnormal to one's
                        startled and unremembering consciousness. Still, it might have been the
                        pitcher.
                    
                    She cherished no fond delusion as to the impenetrability of the warped
                        cottonwood flooring. Water might even then be trickling through to the room
                        below. She found herself wondering where the bed stood, and that thought
                        brought her sitting up in a hurry only to remember that she was over the
                        musty sitting-room with its impossible carpet. She would be glad to see it
                        soaked it might put a little color into it, temporarily at least, and lay
                        the dust of ages. But, sitting up, she felt herself enveloped in a gale of
                        wind that played over the bed, and so wisely concluded that if she wished to
                        see this court through without the risk of grippe or pneumonia
                        complications, she had better close that window. So she slipped cautiously
                        out of bed, nervously apprehensive of plunging her feet into a pool of
                        water. It had not been the pitcher after all. Even after the window was
                        closed, there seemed to be much air in the room. The blind still flapped,
                        though at longer intervals. If it really turned cold, how were they to live
                        in that barn-like room, she and Mary? She thought of the campers out on the
                        flat and shivered. She looked out of the window musingly a moment. It was
                        dark. She wondered if Gordon had come home. Of course he was home. It must
                        be nearly morning. Her feet were getting cold, so she crept back into bed.
                        The next thing of which she was conscious, Mary was shaking her
                        excitedly.
                    
                    "What is it?" she asked, sleepily.
                    "Louise! There's a fire somewhere! Listen!"
                    Some one rushed quickly through the hall; others followed, knocking against
                        the walls in the darkness.
                    Then the awful, heart-clutching clang of a bell rang out near, insistent,
                        metallic. It was the meetinghouse bell. There was no other in the town. The
                        girls sprang to the floor. The thought had found swift lodgment in the mind
                        of each that the hotel was on fire, and in that moment Louise thought of the
                        poisoned meat that had once been served to some archenemies of the gang
                        whose chief was now on trial for his liberty. So quickly does the brain work
                        under stress of great crises, that, even before she had her shoes and
                        stockings on, she found herself wondering who was the marked victim this
                        time. Not Williston, he was dead. Not Gordon, he slept in his own room back
                        of the office. Not Langford, he was bunking with his friend in that same
                        room. Jim Munson? Or was the Judge the proscribed one? He was not a corrupt
                        judge. He could not be bought. It might be he. Mary had gone to the
                        window.
                    "Louise!" she gasped. "The court-house!"
                    True. The cloudy sky was reddened above the poor little temple of justice
                        where for days and weeks the tide of human interest of a big part of a big
                        State ay, a big part of all the northwest country, maybe had been steadily
                        setting in and had reached its culmination 
                        only yesterday, when a gray-eyed, drooping-shouldered, firm-jawed young man
                        had at last faced quietly in the bar of his court the defier of the cow
                        country. Tonight, it would dance its little measure, recite its few lines on
                        its little stage of popularity before an audience frenzied with appreciation
                        and interest; to-morrow, it would be a heap of ashes, its scene played
                        out.
                    "My note books!" cried Louise, in a flash of comprehension. She dressed
                        hastily. Shirt-waist was too intricate, so she threw on a gay Japanese
                        kimono; her jacket and walking-skirt concealed the limitations of her
                        attire.
                    "What are you going to do?" asked Mary, also putting on clothes which were
                        easy of adjustment. She had never gone to fires in the old days before she
                        had come to South Dakota; but if Louise went gentle, highbred Louise why,
                        she would go too, that was all there was about it. She had constituted
                        herself Louise's guardian in this rough life that must be so alien to the
                        Eastern girl. Louise had been very good to her. Louise's startled cry about
                        her note books carried little understanding to her. She was not used to
                        court and its ways.
                    They hastened out into the hallway and down the stairs. They saw no one whom
                        they knew, though men were still dodging out from unexpected places and
                        hurrying down the street. It seemed impossible that the inconveniently
                        built, diminutive prairie hotel could 
                        accommodate so many people. Louise found herself wondering where they had
                        been packed away. The men, carelessly dressed as they were, their hair
                        shaggy and unkempt, always with pistols in belt or hip-pocket or hand, made
                        her shiver with dread. They looked so wild and weird and fierce in the dimly
                        lighted hall. She clutched Mary's arm nervously, but no thought of returning
                        entered her mind. Probably the Judge was already on the court-house grounds.
                        He would want to save some valuable books he had been reading in his
                        official quarters. So they went out into the bleak and windy night. They
                        were immediately enveloped in a wild gust that nearly swept them off their
                        feet as it came tearing down the street. They clung together for a
                        moment.
                    "It'll burn like hell in this wind!" some one cried, as a bunch of men
                        hurried past them. The words were literally whipped out of his mouth. "Won't
                        save a thing."
                    Flames were bursting out of the front windows upstairs. The sky was all
                        alight. Sparks were tossed madly southward by the wind. There was grave
                        danger for buildings other than the one already doomed. The roar of the wind
                        and the flames was well-nigh deafening. The back windows and stairs seemed
                        clear.
                    "Hurry, Mary, hurry!" cried Louise, above the roar, and pressed forward,
                        stumbling and gasping for the breath that the wild wind coveted. It was not
                        far  they had to go. There was a jam of men in
                        the yard. More were coming up. But there was nothing to do. Men shook their
                        heads and shrugged their shoulders and watched the progress of the
                        inevitable with the placidity engendered of the potent "It can't be helped."
                        But some things might have been saved that were not saved had the first on
                        the grounds not rested so securely on that quieting inevitability. As the
                        girls came within the crowded circle of light, they overheard something of a
                        gallant attempt on the part of somebody to save the county records they did
                        not hear whether or no the attempt had been successful. They made their way
                        to the rear. It was still dark.
                    "Louise! What are you going to do?" cried Mary, in consternation. There were
                        few people on this side. Louise put her hand deliberately to the door-knob.
                        It gave to her pressure the door swung open. Some one stumbled out blindly
                        and leaned against the wall for a moment, his hands over his eyes.
                    "I can't do it," he said, aloud, "I can't reach the vaults."
                    Louise slipped past him and was within the doorway, closely followed by the
                        frantic Mary.
                    The man cried out sharply, and stretched out a detaining hand. "Are you
                        crazy? Come back!
                    "Mr. Gordon!" cried Louise, with a little sob of relief, "is it really you?
                        Let me go quick my note books!"
                    
                    A thick cloud of smoke at that moment came rolling down the back stairs. It
                        enveloped them. It went down their throats and made them cough. The man,
                        throwing an arm over the shoulders of the slender girl who had started up
                        after the first shock of the smoke had passed away, pushed her gently but
                        firmly outside.
                    "Don't let her come, Mary," he called back, clearly. "I'll get the note books
                        if I can." Then he was gone up the smoke-wreathed stairway.
                    Outside, the girls waited. It seemed hours. The wind, howling around the
                        corners, whipped their skirts. There was a colder edge to it. Fire at last
                        broke out of the back windows simultaneously with the sound of breaking
                        glass, and huge billows of released black smoke surged out from the new
                        outlet. Louise started forward. She never knew afterward just what she meant
                        to do, but she sprang away from Mary's encircling arm and ran up the little
                        flight of steps leading to the door from which she had been so
                        unceremoniously thrust. Afterward, when they told her, she realized what her
                        impulsive action meant, but now she did not think. She was only conscious of
                        some wild, vague impulse to fly to the help of the man who would even now be
                        safe in blessed outdoors had it not been for her and her foolish woman's
                        whim. She had sent him to his death. What were those wretched note books
                        what was anything at all in comparison to his life! So she stumbled blindly
                        up the steps. The wind had slammed  the door
                        shut. It was a cruel obstacle to keep her back. She wrenched it open. The
                        clouds of smoke that met her, rolling out of their imprisonment like pent-up
                        steam, choked her, blinded her, beat her back. She strove impotently against
                        it. She tried to fight it off with her hands those little intensely feminine
                        hands whose fortune Gordon longed to take upon himself forever and forever.
                        They were so small and weak to fend for themselves. But small as they were,
                        it was a good thing they did that night. Now Mary had firm hold of her and
                        would not let her go. She struggled desperately and tried to push her off,
                        but vainly, for Mary had twice her strength.
                    "Mary, I shall never forgive you "
                    She did not finish her sentence, for at that moment Gordon staggered out into
                        the air. He sat down on the bottom step as if he were drunk, but little
                        darts of flame colored the surging smoke here and there in weird splotches
                        and, suddenly calm now that there was something to do, Mary and Louise led
                        him away from the doomed building where the keen wind soon blew the choking
                        smoke from his eyes and throat.
                    "I've swallowed a ton," he said, recovering himself quickly. "I couldn't get
                        them, Louise." He did not know he called her so.
                    "Oh, what does it matter?" cried Louise, earnestly.
                    "Only forgive me for sending you."
                    "As I remember it, I sent myself," said Gordon,  with a humorous smile, "and, I am afraid, tumbled one little girl rather
                        unceremoniously down the stairs. Did I hurt you?" There was a caressing
                        cadence in the question that he could not for the life of him keep out of
                        his voice.
                    "I did not even know I tumbled. How did you get back?" said Louise,
                        tremulously.
                    "Who opened the door?" counter-questioned Gordon, remembering. "The wind must
                        have blown it shut. I was blinded I couldn't find it I couldn't breathe. I
                        didn't have sense enough to know it was shut, but I couldn't have helped
                        myself anyway. I groped for it as long as I could without breathing. Then I
                        guess I must have gone off a little, for I was sprawling on the floor of the
                        lower hall when I felt a breath of air playing over me. Somebody must have
                        opened the door because I am pretty sure I had fainted or done some foolish
                        thing."
                    Louise was silent. She was thankful thankful! God had been very good to her.
                        It had been given to her to do this thing. She had not meant to do it she
                        had not known what she did; enough that it was done.
                    "It was Louise," spoke up Mary, "and Itried to hold her back!" So she accused
                        herself.
                    "But I didn't do it on purpose," said Louise, with shining eyes. "I I "
                    "Yes, you " prompted Gordon, looking at her with tender intentness.
                    
                    "I guess I was trying to come after you," she confessed. "It was very
                        foolish."
                    The rear grounds were rapidly filling up. Like children following a
                        band-wagon, the crowd surged toward the new excitement of the discovered
                        extension of the fire. Gordon drew a long breath.
                    "I thank God for your foolishness," he said, simply, smiling the smile his
                        friends loved him for.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    AN UNCONVENTIONAL TEA PARTY
                    AS the flames broke through the roof, Langford came rushing up where the
                        group stood a little apart from the press.
                    "Dick! I have been looking for you everywhere," he cried, hoarsely.
                    "What's the trouble, old man?" asked Gordon, quietly.
                    "I have something to tell you," said Langford, in a low voice. "Come quick
                        let's go back to your rooms. Why, girls "
                    "We will go, too," said Mary, with quiet decision. She had caught a glimpse
                        of Red Sanderson's face through the crowd, and she thought he had leered at
                        her. She had been haunted by the vague feeling that she must have known the
                        man who had attempted to carry her off that dreadful night; but she had
                        never been able to concentrate the abstract, fleeting impressions into
                        comprehensive substance never until she had seen that scar and glancing away
                        in terror saw that Langford, too, had seen; but she was not brave enough to
                        lose herself and Louise in the crowd where that man was. She could not. He
                        had leered at  Louise, too, last night at
                        supper. They could not ask the protection of Gordon and Langford back to the
                        hotel then, when Langford's handsome, tanned face was white with the weight
                        of what he had to tell.
                    "It will be best," he agreed, unexpectedly. "Come we must hurry!"
                    It was Williston's "little girl" whom he took under his personal protection,
                        diving up the street in the teeth of the gale which blew colder every
                        moment, with a force and strength that kept Mary half the time off her feet.
                        A gentler knight was Gordon though as manly. All was dark around the
                        premises. There was no one lurking near. Everybody was dancing attendance on
                        the court-house holocaust. Gordon felt for his keys.
                    "How good it is to get out of the wind," whispered Louise. This proceeding
                        smacked so much of the mysterious that whispering followed as a natural
                        sequence.
                    They stepped within. It was inky black.
                    "Lock the door," said Langford, in a low voice.
                    Gordon complied, surprised, but asking no question. He knew his friend, and
                        had faith in his judgment. Then he lighted a lamp that stood on his
                        desk.
                    "Why did you do that?" asked Louise, gravely.
                    "What?"
                    "Lock the door."
                    "I don't know," he answered, honestly. "I didn't think you would notice the
                        click. Ask Paul."
                    
                    "I'll explain in a minute," said Langford. He stepped to the windows and drew
                        the blinds closely.
                    "Now that I have you safe," he said, lightly, "I'll confess I had an old
                        woman's scare. It came to me that as long as you are not, strictly speaking,
                        on kind and loving terms with every one west of the river, and this being
                        such an all-round nasty night anyway, why, I'd just spirit you home and give
                        the charged atmosphere a chance of clearing a little."
                    Gordon looked at him steadily a moment. His face did not pale. Yet he knew
                        that Langford had heard or suspected more than he intended to tell then. It
                        was good to see him shrug his shoulders in unconcern for the sake of the two
                        white-faced girls who sat there in his stiff office chairs.
                    "You are an old duffer, Paul," he said, in pretended annoyance. "You treat me
                        like a child. I won't stand it always. You'll see. Some day I'll rebel and
                        then "
                    "Meanwhile, I'll just trot these ladies back to the hotel," said Langford.
                        "But you must promise to keep your head inside. We're fixtures until we have
                        that promise."
                    "What, lock me up and run off with all the ladies! I guess not! Why didn't we
                        round up that way, I'd like to know? This isn't Utah, Paul. You can't have
                        both."
                    Paul meant for him to lie low, then. He was also  in a hurry to get the girls away. Evidently the danger lay here. There
                        was a tightening of the firm mouth and an ominous contraction of the pupils
                        of the eyes. He stirred the fire, then jammed a huge, knotted stick into the
                        sheet-iron stove. It seemed as if everybody had sheet-iron stoves in this
                        country. The log caught with a pleasant roar as the draught sent flames
                        leaping up the chimney. But Paul made no movement to go. Then he, Gordon,
                        had not understood his friend. Maybe the menace was not here, but outside.
                        If so, he must contrive to keep his guests interested here. He would leave
                        the lead to Paul. Paul knew. He went back to his living-room and returned,
                        bringing two heavy buggy robes.
                    "You will find my bachelor way of living very primitive," he said, with his
                        engaging smile. He arranged the robes over two of the chairs and pushed them
                        close up to the stove. "I haven't an easy chair in the house prove it by
                        Paul, here. Haven't time to rock, and can't afford to run the risk of
                        cultivating slothful habits. Take these, do," he urged, "and remove your
                        coats."
                    "Thank you you are very kind," said Louise. "No, I won't take off my jacket,"
                        a spot of color staining her cheek when she thought of her gay kimono.
                        Involuntarily, she felt of her throat to make sure the muffler had not blown
                        awry. "We shall be going soon, shan't we, Mr. Langford? If Mr. Gordon is in
                        any  danger, you must stay with him and let us
                        go alone. It is not far."
                    "Surely," said Mary, with a big sinking of the heart, but meaning what she
                        said.
                    "Not at all," said Gordon, decidedly. "It's just his womanish way of bossing
                        me. I'll rebel some day. Just wait! But before you go, I'll make tea. You
                        must have gotten chilled through."
                    He would keep them here a while and then let them go with Langford. The
                        thought made him feel cheap and cowardly and sneaking. Far rather would he
                        step out boldly and take his chances. But if there was to be any shooting,
                        it must be where Louise, and Mary, too was not. He believed Paul, in his
                        zeal, had exaggerated evil omens, but there was Louise in his bachelor rooms
                        where he had never thought to see her; there with her cheeks flushed with
                        the proximity to the stove his stove her fair hair windblown. No breath of
                        evil thing must assail her that night that night, when she had glorified his
                        lonely habitation even though he himself must slink into a corner like a
                        cowardly cur. A strange elation took possession of him. She was here. He
                        thought of last night and seemed to walk on air. If he won out, maybe but,
                        fool that he was! what was there in this rough land for a girl like
                        Louise?
                    "Oh, no, that will be too much trouble," gasped Louise, in some alarm and
                        thinking of Aunt Helen.
                    
                    "Thanks, old man, we'll stay," spoke up Langford, cheerfully. "He makes
                        excellent tea really. I've tried it before. You will never regret
                        staying."
                    Silently he watched his friend in the inner room bring out a battered
                        tea-kettle, fill it with a steady hand and put it on the stove in the
                        office, coming and going carelessly, seemingly conscious of nothing in the
                        world but the comfort of his unexpected guests.
                    True to her sex, Louise was curiously interested in the housekeeping
                        arrangements of a genuine bachelor establishment. Woman-like, she saw many
                        things in the short time she was there but nothing that diminished her
                        respect for Richard Gordon. The bed in the inner chamber where both men
                        slept was disarranged but clean. Wearing apparel was strewn over chairs and
                        tables. There was a litter of magazines on the floor. She laid them up
                        against Langford; she did not think Gordon had the time or inclination to
                        cultivate the magazine habit. She did not know to whose weakness to ascribe
                        the tobacco pouch and brier-wood pipe placed invitingly by the side of a
                        pair of gay, elaborately bead-embroidered moccasons, cosily stowed away
                        under the head of the bed; but she was rather inclined to lay these, too, to
                        Langford's charge. The howling tempest outside only served to enhance the
                        cosiness of the rumbling fire and the closely drawn blinds.
                    But tea was never served in those bachelor rooms  that night neither that night nor ever again. It was a little dream that
                        went up in flame with the walls that harbored it. Who first became conscious
                        that the tang of smoke was gradually filling their nostrils, it was hard to
                        tell. They were not far behind each other in that consciousness. It was
                        Langford who discovered that the trouble was at the rear, where the wind
                        would soon have the whole building fanned into flames. Gordon unlocked the
                        door quietly. He said nothing. But Paul, springing in front of him, himself
                        threw it open. It was no new dodge, this burning a man out to shoot him as
                        one would drown out a gopher for the killing. He need not have been afraid.
                        The alarm had spread. The street in front was rapidly filling. One would
                        hardly have dared to shoot then if one had meant to. And he did not know. He
                        only knew that deviltry had been in the air for Gordon that night. He had
                        suspected more than he had overheard, but it had been in the air.
                    Gordon saw the action and understood it. He never forgot it. He said nothing,
                        but gave his friend an illuminating smile that Langford understood. Neither
                        ever spoke of it, neither ever forgot it. How tightly can quick impulses
                        bind forever.
                    Outside, they encountered the Judge in search of his delinquent charges.
                    "I'm sorry, Dick," he said. "Dead loss, my boy. This beastly wind is your
                        undoing."
                    
                    "I'm not worrying, Judge," responded Gordon, grimly. "I intend for some one
                        else to do that."
                    "Hellity damn, Dick, hellity damn!" exploded Jim Munson in his ear. The words
                        came whistling through his lips, caught and whirled backward by the play of
                        the storm. The cold was getting bitter, and a fine, cutting snow was at last
                        driving before the wind.
                    Gordon, with a set face, plunged back into the room already fire-licked.
                        Langford and Munson followed. There sat the little tea-service staring at
                        them with dumb pathos. The three succeeded in rolling the safe with all its
                        precious documents arranged within, out into the street. Nothing else
                        mattered much to Gordon. But other things were saved, and Jim gallantly
                        tossed out everything he could lay his hands on before Gordon ordered
                        everybody out for good and all. It was no longer safe to be within. Gordon
                        was the last one out. He carried a battered little tea-kettle in his hand.
                        He looked at it in a whimsical surprise as if he had not known until then
                        that he had it in his hand. Obeying a sudden impulse, he held it out to
                        Louise.
                    "Please take care of my poor little dream," he whispered with a strange,
                        intent look.
                    Before she could comprehend the significance or give answer, the Judge had
                        faced about. He bore the girls back to the hotel, scolding helplessly all
                        the way as  they scudded with the wind. But
                        Louise held the little tin kettle firmly.
                    Men knew of Richard Gordon that night that he was a marked man. The secret
                        workings of a secret clan had him on their proscription list. Some one had
                        at last found this unwearied and doggedly persistent young fellow in the
                        way. In the way, he was a menace, a danger. He must be removed from out the
                        way. He could not be bought from it he should be warned from it. So now his
                        home his work room and his rest room, the first by many hours daily the more
                        in use, with all its furnishings of bachelor plainness and utility, that yet
                        had held a curious charm for some men, friends and cronies like Langford was
                        burning that he might be warned. Could any one say, "Jesse Black has done
                        this thing"? Would he not bring down proof of guilt by a retaliation struck
                        too soon? It would seem as if he were anticipating an unfavorable verdict.
                        So men reasoned. And even then they did not arise to stamp out the evil that
                        had endured and hugged itself and spit out corruption in the cattle country.
                        That was reserved for another.
                    They talked of a match thrown down at the courthouse by a tramp, likely, when
                        it was past midnight, when the fire broke out with the wind a piercing gale,
                        and when no vagrant but had long since left such cold comfort and had slept
                        these many weeks in sunnier climes. Some argued that the windows of  the court-room might have been left open and
                        the stove blown down by the wind tearing through, or the stove door might
                        have blown open and remains of the fire been blown out, or the pipe might
                        have fallen down. But it was a little odd that the same people said Dick
                        Gordon's office likely caught fire from flying sparks. Dick's office was two
                        blocks to westward of the court-house and it would have been a brave spark
                        and a lively one that could have made headway against that northwester.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE ESCAPE
                    THE little county seat awoke in the morning to a strange sight. The storm had
                        not abated. The wind was still blowing at blizzard rate off the northwest
                        hills, and fine, icy snow was swirling so thickly through the cold air that
                        vision was obstructed. Buildings were distinguishable only as shadows
                        showing faintly through a heavy white veil. The thermometer had gone many
                        degrees below the zero mark. It was steadily growing colder. The older
                        inhabitants said it would surely break the record the coming night.
                    An immense fire had been built in the sitting-room. Thither Mary and Louise
                        repaired. Here they were joined by Dale, Langford, and Gordon.
                    "You should be out at the ranch looking after your poor cattle, Mr.
                        Langford," said Mary, smilingly. She could be light-hearted now, since a
                        little secret had been whispered to her last night at a tea party where no
                        tea had been drunk. Langford had gravitated toward her as naturally as steel
                        to a magnet. He shrugged his big shoulders and laughed a little.
                    "The Scribe will do everything that can be done. Honest, now, did you think
                        this trial could be pulled off without me?"
                    
                    "But there can be no trial to-day."
                    "Why not?"
                    "Did I dream the court-house burned last night?"
                    "If you did, we are all dreamers alike."
                    "Then how can you hold court?"
                    "We have gone back to the time when Church and State were one and
                        inseparable, and court convenes at ten o'clock sharp in the meeting-house,"
                        he said.
                    Louise was looking white and miserable.
                    "You are not contemplating running away, are you?" asked Gordon. "This is
                        unusual weather really."
                    She looked at him with a pitiful smile.
                    "I should like to be strong and brave and enduring and capable like Mary. You
                        don't believe it, do you? It's true, though. But I can't. I'm weak and
                        homesick and cold. I ought not to have come. I am not the kind. You said it,
                        too, you know. I am going home just as soon as this court is over. I mean
                        it."
                    There was no mistaking that. Gordon bowed his head. His face was white. It
                        had come sooner than he had thought.
                    All the records of the work of yesterday had been burned. There was nothing
                        to do but begin at the beginning again. It was discouraging, uninteresting.
                        But it had to be done. Dale refused positively to adjourn. The jurymen were
                        all here. So the little  frame church was
                        bargained for. If the fire-bugs had thought to postpone events to gain time
                        by last night's work, they would find themselves very greatly mistaken. The
                        church was long and narrow like a country schoolhouse, and rather roomy
                        considering the size of the town. It had precise windows also like a country
                        schoolhouse, four on the west side, through which the fine snow was
                        drifting, four opposite. The storm kept few at home with the exception of
                        the people from across the river. There were enough staying in the town to
                        fill the room to its utmost limits. Standing room was at a premium. The
                        entry was crowded. Men not able to get in ploughed back through the cutting
                        wind and snow only to return presently to see if the situation had changed
                        any during their brief absence. So all the work of yesterday was gone over
                        again.
                    Mingled with the howl and bluster of the wind, and the swirl and swish of the
                        snow drifting outside during the small hours of last night, sometimes had
                        been distinguishable the solemn sound of heavy steps running likened
                        somewhat to the tramp of troops marching on the double-quick. To some to
                        whom this sound was borne its meaning was clear, but others wondered, until
                        daylight made it clear to all. The sorry day predicted for the cattle had
                        come. The town was full of cattle. They hugged the south side of the
                        buildings standing in stolid patience with drooping  heads. Never a structure in the whole town house or store or
                        barn or saloon but was wind-break for some forlorn bunch huddled together,
                        their faces always turned to the southeast, for the wind went that way. It
                        was an odd sight. It was also a pitiful one. Hundreds had run with the wind
                        from the higher range altitude, seeking the protection of the bluffs. The
                        river only stopped the blind, onward impetus. The flat where the camps had
                        been might have been a close corral, so thickly were the animals crowded
                        together, their faces turned uncompromisingly with the wind.
                    But the most pathetic part of the situation made itself felt later in the day
                        when the crying need of food for this vast herd began to be a serious
                        menace. Starvation stared these hundreds of cattle in the face. Men felt
                        this grimly. But it was out of the question to attempt to drive them back to
                        the grass lands in the teeth of the storm. Nothing could be done that day at
                        least. But during the second night the wind fell away, the snow ceased.
                        Morning dawned clear, still, and stingingly cold, and the sun came up with a
                        goodly following of sun-dogs. Then such a sight greeted the inhabitants of
                        the little town as perhaps they had never seen before and yet they had seen
                        many things having to do with cattle. There was little grass in the town for
                        them, but every little dead spear that had lived and died in the protection
                        of the sidewalk or in out-of-the-way corners had been ravenously nipped.
                        Where snow  had drifted over a likely place,
                        it had been pawed aside. Where there had been some grass, south of town and
                        east, the ground was as naked now as though it had been peeled. Every bit of
                        straw had been eaten from manure piles, so that only pawed-over mounds of
                        pulverized dust remained. Garbage heaps looked as if there had been a
                        general Spring cleaning-up. And there was nothing more now. Every heap of
                        refuse, every grass plot had been ransacked there was nothing left for those
                        hundreds of starving brutes. Many jurors, held in waiting, begged permission
                        to leave, to drive their cattle home. Whenever practicable, these requests
                        were granted. The aggregate loss to the county would be enormous if the
                        cattle were allowed to remain here many more days. Individual loss would go
                        hard with many of the small owners. The cattle stupidly made no move to
                        return to the grass lands of their own volition.
                    Later in the day, the numbers were somewhat thinned, but things were
                        happening in the little church room that made men forget so concentrated was
                        the interest within those four walls. So close was the pack of people that
                        the fire roaring in the big stove in the middle of the room was allowed to
                        sink in smouldering quiet. The heavy air had been unbearable else. The snow
                        that had been brought in on tramping feet lay in little melted pools on the
                        rough flooring. Men forgot to eat peanuts and women forgot to chew their gum
                             except one or two extremely nervous ones
                        whose jaws moved the faster under the stimulus of hysteria. Jesse Black was
                        telling his story.
                    "Along toward the first of last July, I took a hike out into the Indian
                        country to buy a few head o' cattle. I trade considerable with the
                        half-breeds around Crow Creek and Lower Brule. They're always for sellin'
                        and if it comes to a show-down never haggle much about the lucre it all goes
                        for snake-juice anyway. Well, I landed at John Yellow Wolf's shanty along
                        about noon and found there was others ahead o' me. Yellow Wolf always was a
                        popular cuss. There was Charlie Nightbird, Pete Monroe, Jesse Big Cloud, and
                        two or three others whose mugs I did not happen to be onto. After our feed,
                        we all strolled out to the corral. Yellow Wolf said he had bought a likely
                        little bunch from some English feller who was skipping the country starved
                        out and homesick and hadn't put 'em on the range yet. He said J R was the
                        English feller's brand. I didn't suspicion no underhand dealin's. Yellow
                        Wolf's always treated me white before, so I bargained for this here chap and
                        three or four others and then pulled out for home driving the bunch. They
                        fed at home for a spell and then I decided to put 'em on the range. On the
                        way I fell in with Billy Brown here. He was dead set on havin' the lot to
                        fill in the chinks of the two carloads he was shippin', so I up and lets him
                        have 'em. I showed him this here bill-o'-sale from  Yellow Wolf and made him out one from me, and that was all
                        there was to it. He rode on to Velpen, and I turned on my trail."
                    It was a straight story, and apparently damaging for the prosecution. It
                        corroborated the attestations of other witnesses many others. It had a
                        plausible ring to it. Two bills of sale radiated atmospheric legality. If
                        there had been dirty work, it must have originated with that renegade
                        half-breed, Yellow Wolf. And Yellow Wolf was dead. He had died while serving
                        a term in the penitentiary for cattle-rustling. Uncle Sam himself had set
                        the seal upon him and now he was dead. This insinuated charge he could not
                        answer. The finality of it seemed to set its stamp upon the people gathered
                        there upon the twelve good men and true, as well as upon others. Yellow Wolf
                        was dead. George Williston was dead. Their secrets had died with them. An
                        inscrutable fate had lowered the veil. Who could pierce it? One might
                        believe, but who could know? And the law required knowledge.
                    "We will call Charlie Nightbird," said Small, complacently.
                    There was a little waiting silence a breathless, palpitating silence.
                    "Is Charlie Nightbird present?" asked Small, casting rather anxious eyes over
                        the packed, intent faces. Charlie Nightbird was not present. At least he
                        made no sign of coming forward. The face of the young  counsel for the State was immobile during the brief time they
                        waited for Charlie Nightbird whose dark, frozen face was at that moment
                        turned toward the cold, sparkling sky, and who would never come, not if they
                        waited for him till the last dread trump of the last dread day.
                    There was some mistake. Counsel had been misinformed. Nightbird was an
                        important witness. He had been reported present. Never mind. He was probably
                        unavoidably detained by the storm. They would call Jesse Big Cloud and
                        others to corroborate the defendant's statements which they did, and the
                        story was sustained in all its parts, major and minor. Then the defence
                        rested.
                    Richard Gordon arose from his chair. His face was white. His lean jaws were
                        set. His eyes were steel. He was anything but a lover now, this man Gordon.
                        Yet the slim little court reporter with dark circles of homesickness under
                        her eyes had never loved him half so well as at this moment. His voice was
                        clear and deliberate.
                    "Your honor, I ask permission of the Court to call a witness in direct
                        testimony. I assure your honor that the State had used all efforts in its
                        power to obtain the presence of this witness before resting its case, but
                        had failed and believed at the time that he could not be produced. The
                        witness is now here and I consider his testimony of the utmost importance in
                        this case."
                    
                    Counsel for the defendant objected strenuously, but the Court granted the
                        petition. He wanted to hear everything that might throw some light on the
                        dark places in the evidence.
                    "I call Mr. George Williston," said Gordon.
                    Had the strain crazed him? Louise covered her eyes with her hands. Men sat as
                        if dazed. And thus, the cynosure of all eyes stupefied eyes Williston of the
                        ravaged Lazy S, thin and worn but calm, natural and scholarly-looking as of
                        old walked from the little ante-room at the side into the light and
                        knowledge of men once more and raised his hand for the oath. Not until this
                        was taken and he had sat quietly down in the witness chair did the tension
                        snap. Even then men found it difficult to focus their attention on the
                        enormous difference this new witness must make in the case that a few
                        moments before had seemed settled.
                    Mary sat with shining eyes in the front row of wooden chairs. It was no
                        wonder she had laughed and been so gay all the dreary yesterday and all the
                        worse to-day. Louise shot her a look of pure gladness.
                    Small's face was ludicrous in its drop-jawed astonishment. The little
                        lawyer's face was a study. A look of defiance had crept into the defendant's
                        countenance.
                    The preliminary questions were asked and answered.
                    "Mr. Williston, you may state where you were and what you saw on the
                        fourteenth day of July last."
                    Williston, the unfortunate gentleman and scholar,  the vanquished cowman, for a brief while the most important
                        man in the cow country, perhaps, was about to uncover to men's understanding
                        the dark secret hitherto obscured by a cloud of supposition and hearsay. He
                        told the story of his visit to the island, and he told it well. It was
                        enough. Gordon asked no further questions regarding that event.
                    "And now, Mr. Williston, you may tell what happened to you on the night of
                        the thirtieth of last August."
                    Williston began to tell the story of the night attack upon the Lazy S, when
                        the galvanic Small jumped to his feet. The little lawyer touched him with a
                        light hand.
                    "Your honor," he said, smoothly, "I object to that as incompetent,
                        irrelevant, and immaterial, and not binding on the defendant."
                    "Your honor," interrupted Gordon, with great calmness, "we intend to show you
                        before we get through that this testimony is competent, and that it is
                        binding upon the defendant."
                    "Was the defendant there?"
                    "The defendant was there."
                    The objection was overruled.
                    So Williston told briefly but to the point the story of the night attack upon
                        his home, of the defence by himself and his daughter, and of the burning of
                        his house and sheds. Then he proceeded:
                    
                    "Suddenly, some one caught me from behind, my arms were pinioned to my sides,
                        something was clapped over my mouth. I was flung over a horse and strapped
                        to the saddle all in less time than it takes to tell it, and was borne away
                        in company with the man who had overpowered me."
                    He paused a moment in his recital. Faces strained with expectancy devoured
                        him his every look and word and action. Mary was very pale, carried thus
                        back to the dread realities of that night in August, and shuddered,
                        remembering that ghastly galloping. Langford could scarce restrain himself.
                        He wanted to rip out a blood-curdling Sioux war-whoop on the spot.
                    "Who was this man, Mr. Williston?" asked Gordon.
                    "Jesse Black."
                    Small was on his feet again, gesticulating wildly.
                    "I object! This is all a fabrication, put in here to prejudice the minds of
                        the jury against this defendant. It is a pack of lies, and I move that it be
                        stricken from the record."
                    The little lawyer bowed his head to the storm and shrugged up his shoulders.
                        Perhaps he wished that he, or his associates one of the unholy alliance at
                        least was where the wicked cease from troubling, on the far-away islands of
                        the deep seas, possibly, or home on the farm. But his expression told
                        nothing.
                    "Gentlemen! gentlemen!" expostulated Judge Dale.  "Gentlemen! I insist. This is all out of order." Only one gentleman was
                        out of order, but that was the Judge's way. Gordon had remained provokingly
                        cool under the tirade.
                    Again the soft touch. Small fell into his chair. He poured himself a glass of
                        water from the pitcher standing on the attorneys' table and drank a little
                        of it nervously.
                    "I move," said the little lawyer, "that all this touching upon the personal
                        matter of this witness and having to do with his private quarrels be
                        stricken out of the evidence as not bearing on the case in question."
                    All in vain. The Judge ruled that it did bear on the case, and Williston
                        picked up the thread of his story.
                    "We rode and rode hard it must have been hours; daylight was coming before we
                        stopped. Our horses were spent. I had no idea where we were. From the
                        formation of the land, I judged we were not far from the river. We were
                        surrounded by bluffs. I can hardly make you see how cleverly this little
                        retreat had been planned. It was in a valley one of a hundred similar in all
                        essential respects. The gulch at the bottom of the valley was heavily wooded
                        with scrub-oak, cotton-wood, woodbine, and plum-trees, and this tangle of
                        foliage extended for some distance up the sides of the hills. In the midst
                        of this underbrush a most excellent screen was a tiny cabin. In this tiny
                        cabin I have  lived, a closely watched
                        prisoner, from that day until I escaped."
                    The defendant stirred a little uneasily. Was he thinking of Nightbird with
                        the dark, frozen face who had not answered to his call?
                    "Black left me soon after. He did not unbind me, rather bound me the tighter.
                        There was no one then to watch me. He deigned to inform me that he had found
                        it rather inconvenient to kill me after the relief party rode up, as then
                        there was no absolute surety of his making a clean get-away, and being
                        caught in the act would be bound to be unpleasant, very unpleasant just
                        then, so he had altered his plans a little for the present. He gave me no
                        hint either that time, nor either of the two times I saw him subsequently,
                        as to what was to be his ultimate disposal of me. I could only suppose that
                        after this trial was well over in his favor, and fear of indictment for
                        arson and murder had blown over if blow over it did, he would then quietly
                        put an end to me. Dead men tell no tales. The shanty in the gulch did not
                        seem to be much of a rendezvous for secret meetings. I led a lonely
                        existence. My jailers were mostly half-breeds usually Charlie Nightbird. Two
                        or three times Jake Sanderson was my guard."
                    Then from the doorway came a loud, clear, resonant voice, a joyful voice, a
                        voice whose tones fairly oozed rapture.
                    
                    "Hellity damn! The Three Bars's a gettin' busy, Mouse-hair!"
                    Judge Dale started. He glared angrily in that direction.
                    "Remove that man!" he ordered, curtly. He liked Jim, but he could not brook
                        this crying contempt of court. Jim was removed. He went quietly, but shaking
                        his head reproachfully.
                    "I never would 'a' thought it o' the Jedge," he murmured, disconsolately. "I
                        never would 'a' thought it."
                    There was a movement in the back of the room. A man was making his way out,
                        slipping along, catlike, trying to evade attention. Quietly Gordon motioned
                        to the sheriff and slipped a paper into his hand.
                    "Look sharp," he whispered, his steady eyes on the shifty ones of the
                        sheriff. "If you let him get away, just remember the handwriting on the
                        wall. It's our turn now."
                    Presently, there was a slight scuffle by the door and two men quietly left
                        the improvised court-room.
                    "Day before yesterday, in the afternoon," continued Williston, "I managed to
                        knock Nightbird down at the threshold as he was about to enter. I had
                        secretly worked a cross-beam from the low, unfinished ceiling. There was
                        nothing else in the room I might use for a weapon. They were very careful. I
                        think I killed  him, your honor and gentlemen
                        of the jury. I am not sorry. There was no other way. But I would rather it
                        had been the maker, not the tool. By the time I had made my way back to the
                        Lazy S, I was too exhausted to go further; so I crawled over to my
                        neighbors, the Whites, and Mother White made me a shake-down. I lay there,
                        nearly dead, until this morning."
                    He leaned back wearily.
                    Black stood up. He was not lank nor lazy now, nor shuffling. His body was
                        drawn to its full height. In the instant before the spring, Mary, who was
                        sitting close to the attorneys' table, met his glance squarely. She read
                        there what he was about to do. Only a moment their eyes held each other's,
                        but it was time enough for a swift message of understanding, of utter
                        dislike, and of a determined will to defeat the man's purpose, to pass from
                        the accusing brown eyes to the cruel ones of the defendant.
                    Quick as a flash, Black seized the chair upon which he had been sitting,
                        sprang clear of the table and his lawyers, and landed close to Mary's side.
                        With his chair as a weapon, he meant to force his way to the nearest window.
                        Mary's eyes dilated. Unhesitatingly she seized the half-emptied glass on the
                        table and dashed the contents of it full into the prisoner's face. Blinded,
                        he halted a moment in his mad rush. Mary's quick manuvre made Langford's
                        opportunity. He  grappled with Black. The
                        crowd went mad with excitement.
                    The prisoner still retained his chair. When Langford grappled with him, he
                        attempted to bring it down upon the fair head of his antagonist. Mary gasped
                        with dread, but Langford grasped the chair with one muscular hand, wrested
                        it from the desperado's hold, and threw it to the floor. The two men locked
                        in a close embrace. Langford's great strength was more than sufficient to
                        hold the outlaw until the dazed officers could do their duty had he been let
                        alone; but two men, who had been standing near the door when the prisoner
                        made his unexpected leap for liberty, had succeeded in worming their way
                        through the excited crowd, and now suddenly threw themselves upon the
                        ranchman, dragging him back.
                    "Stand aside or I'll shoot!"
                    It was a girl's voice, clear and firm. Mary had been the first to realize
                        that Black's friends, not Langford's, had joined in the struggle. She
                        snatched her revolver from her cowboy belt she had not been without either
                        since the Lazy S was burned and cried out her challenge. Glancing quickly
                        from the gleaming barrel to the determined face of the young girl, the men
                        let go their hold of Langford and fell back precipitately.
                    Instantly, Langford sprang forward, but Black had made good use of his moment
                        of grace. Swinging his  arms to the right and
                        left, he had beaten his way to the window, when Langford again seized him,
                        but he had the advantage this time and he tore himself loose, throwing
                        Langford violently against the window-casing. With his bare, clinched fist,
                        he shivered the glass and leaped out into the arms of Jim Munson.
                    The officers made gallant plunges through the stampeded crowd in their
                        efforts to get clear of the room to follow the fugitive. But certain men
                        managed to keep themselves clumsily, but with marvellous adroitness
                        nevertheless, between the deputies and the doors and windows; so that
                        several moments elapsed before the outside was finally gained.
                    Meanwhile, Jim struggled heroically with the outlaw. Black was far superior
                        to him in weight and strength of limb, but Jim was quick and tough and
                        daring. Expelled from the court-room, he had been watching through the
                        window. He had seen Mary's quick action and his Boss's splendid attack. He
                        had also seen the little "gun play" and his eyes glowed in admiration of
                        "Williston's little girl," though his generous heart ached for love of the
                        woman who was not for him. He saw Black coming. He was ready for him. He
                        grappled with him at once. If the Boss or the officers would only come now!
                        When they did come, they found Jim stretched at length on the frozen ground.
                        He sat up slowly.
                    
                    "You're too late, boys," he said; "the hoss thief was too much for me. He's
                        gone."
                    It was true. The little street stretched before them still deserted. Early
                        twilight was coming on. The biting cold struck them broadside. The deputies
                        scattered in vain pursuit.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    THE MOVING SHADOW
                    "I'D rather not talk about it to-night. I'm not equal to it. It's too too
                        it's devilish, Paul. I don't seem to be able to grasp it. I can't think
                        about it with any coherence. I was so sure so sure."
                    Gordon was staring moodily out of the window, one arm hanging idly over the
                        back of his chair. He had taken up office room in an empty shop building
                        across the street from the hotel.
                    "It's so devilish, it's weird," agreed the ranchman. "But your part was
                        great. You vanquished Jesse Black. That is more than we hoped for a week
                        ago. Is it your fault or mine that those fool deputies acted like flies in
                        tangle-foot and went spraddle-fingered when something was expected of them?
                        We have nothing to do with a little thing like a broken windowpane."
                    There was an ugly cut on his forehead caused by his violent contact with the
                        sharp edge of the window-casing. He was pale, but he had lost none of the
                        old faith in himself or in his power to dominate affairs in the
                        cattle-country. Defeat was intolerable to him.
                    
                    He refused to bow his head to it. To-day's check only made him the more
                        determined, if that were possible, to free the land of its shame.
                    "I'll pull myself together again, never fear," said Gordon. "Just give me
                        to-night. You see that's not all. I've something else to think about, too,
                        now that I have time. It takes a fellow's nerve away to have everything that
                        is worth while drop out at once. But I've rallied before. I know I'm beastly
                        selfish not to talk to you to-night, but "
                    "Dick," interrupted Langford, bluntly, "did she turn you down?"
                    "I never asked her. She is going back home next week."
                    "If you let her."
                    "You don't quite understand, Paul," said Gordon, a little wearily. "She said
                        she could never live in this countrynever. She would die here. Could I ask
                        her after that? Could I ask her anyway, and be a man? I know. She would just
                        pine away."
                    "Girls don't pine only in imagination. They are tougher than you give them
                        credit for."
                    "But somehow, Mary seems different," said Gordon, thoughtfully. He surprised
                        a flush in his friend's cheek. "You deserve her, old man, you'll be very
                        happy. She is the right kind. I congratulate you with all my heart."
                    An odd lump came into Langford's throat. Despite  Gordon's vigorous and healthful manhood, there seemed always a certain
                        pathos of life surrounding him.
                    "I haven't asked, either," confessed Paul. "But you have made it possible for
                        me to do soto-night to-morrow whenever I can find a chance. Take my advice,
                        old man, don't let your girl go. You'll find she is the kind after all. You
                        don't know her yet."
                    Paul left the room, and Gordon paced the narrow confines of his shabby office
                        back and forth many times. Then he threw himself once more into his chair.
                        The hours were long. He had all night to think about things. When morning
                        came, all his weakness would be over. No one should ever again see him so
                        unmanned as Paul had seen him to-night. And when Louise should go his arms
                        fell nervelessly to the table. He remained thus a moment, his eyes fixed and
                        unseeing, and then his head dropped heavily upon his arms.
                    Alone in the night, Louise awoke. She found it impossible to fall asleep
                        again. She was nervous. It must be something in the atmosphere. She tossed
                        and tossed and flounced and flounced. She counted up to thousands. She made
                        her mind a blank so often that she flew to thinking to escape the emptiness
                        of it. Still her eyes were wide and her mind fairly a-quiver with activity.
                        She slipped out of bed. She would tire herself into sleep. She even dressed.
                        She would show herself. If she must be a midnight prowler, she  would wear the garments people affect when
                        they have their thoughts and energies fixed on matters mundane. Drawing the
                        oil stove close to the window fronting the street, she sank into a chair,
                        drew a heavy shawl over her shoulders, put her feet on the tiny fender, and
                        prepared to fatigue herself into oblivion.
                    A light shone from the window across the way. He was still at work, then. He
                        ought not to sit up so late. No wonder he was looking so worn out lately. He
                        ought to have some one to look after him. He never thought of himself. He
                        never had time. She would talk to him about keeping such late hoursif she
                        were not going back to God's country next week. Only next week! It was too
                        good to be true, and yet she sighed. But there was no other way. She ought
                        never to have come. She was not big enough. He, too, had told her she was
                        not the kind. Doubtless, he knew. And she didn't belong to anybody here. She
                        was glad she was going back to where she belonged to somebody. She would
                        never go away again.
                    Was that Gordon passing back and forth in front of the window? Something must
                        be troubling him. Was it because Jesse Black had escaped? But what a
                        glorious vindication of his belief in the man's guilt had that afternoon
                        been given! Nothing lacked there. Why should he be sorry? Sometimes, she had
                        thought he might care, that day crossing the river for instance; but he was
                        so reserved he never said and  it was much,
                        much better that he did not care, now that she was going away and would
                        never come back. There was nothing in all the world that could make her come
                        back to this big, bleak, lonesome land where she belonged to nobody. But she
                        was sorry for him. He looked sad and lonely. He didn't belong to anybody
                        here, either, yet he wasn't going to run away as she was. Well, but he was a
                        man, and men were different.
                    And now she noticed that his head had sunk down onto his arms. How still he
                        sat! The minutes passed away. Still he sat motionless, his face buried.
                    It was dark. The yellow gleam streaming out of the window only served to make
                        the surrounding darkness denser. The lamp on the table cast a pale circle
                        immediately in front of the office. There was no other flicker of light on
                        the street. Into this circle there moved a shadow. It retreated, advanced
                        again, glided back into obscurity. Was it something alive, or did the moving
                        of the lamp cause the shadows to thus skip about? But the lamp had not been
                        moved. It burned steadily in the same position. The relaxed form of the
                        unconscious man was still bent over the table. Nothing had changed within.
                        Probably some dog locked out for the night had trotted within the radius of
                        light. Maybe a cotton-tail had hopped into the light for a second. Louise
                        did not know whether rabbits ever came into the town, but it was likely they
                             did. It might have been one of the
                        strayed cattle wandering about in search of food. That was the most probable
                        supposition of all. Of course it might have been only her imagination. The
                        little pinch of fright engendered of and the eerie hour passed away. Her
                        eyes grew pensive again. How still it was! Had Gordon fallen asleep? He lay
                        so quietly. Had he grieved himself into slumber as a girl would do? No men
                        were not like that.
                    Ah! There was the moving shadow again! She caught her breath quickly. Then
                        her eyes grew wide and fixed with terror. This time the shadow did not slink
                        away again. It came near the window, crouching. Suddenly, it stood up
                        straight. Merciful Father! Why is it that a human being, a creature of
                        reason and judgment, prowling about at unnatural hours, inspires ten-fold
                        more terror to his kind than does a brute in like circumstances of time and
                        place? Louise tried to scream aloud. Her throat was parched. A sudden
                        paralysis held her speechless. It was like a nightmare. She writhed and
                        fought desperately to shake herself free of this dumb horror. The cold damp
                        came out on her forehead. Afterward she remembered that she knew the man and
                        that it was this knowledge that had caused her nightmare of horror to be so
                        unspeakably dreadful. Now she was conscious only of the awfulness of not
                        being able to cry out. If she could only awaken Mary! The man lifted his
                        arm. He had  something in his hand. Its
                        terrible import broke the spell of her speechlessness.
                    "Mary! Mary!"
                    She thought she shrieked. In reality, she gasped out a broken whisper; but it
                        thrilled so with terror and pleading that Mary was awakened on the instant.
                        She sprang out of bed. As her feet touched the floor, a pistol shot rang
                        out, close by. She had been trained to quick action, and superb health left
                        no room for cobwebs to linger in the brain when she was suddenly aroused.
                        She had no need for explanations. The shot was enough. If more was needed,
                        there was the lighted window across the way and here was Louise crouched
                        before their own. Swiftly and silently, she seized her revolver from the
                        bureau, glided to the window, and fired three times in rapid succession, the
                        reports mingling with the sound of shattered glass.
                    "I think I hit him the second time, Louise," she said, with a dull calm. "I
                        can't be sure."
                    She lighted a lamp and began to dress mechanically. Louise stayed not to
                        answer. In the hall, she encountered Paul Langford, just as another shot
                        rang out.
                    "Go back, Miss Dale," he cried, hurriedly but peremptorily. "You mustn't
                        come. I am afraid there has been foul play."
                    She looked at him. It hurt, that look. "He is dead," she whispered, "I am
                        going to him," and glided away from his detaining hand.
                    
                    He hurried after her. Others had been aroused by the nearness of the pistol
                        shots. Doors were thrown open. Voices demanded the meaning of the
                        disturbance. Putting his arm around the trembling girl, Langford hastened
                        across the street with her. At the door of Gordon's office, he paused.
                    "I will go in first, Louise. You stay here."
                    He spoke authoritatively; but she slipped in ahead of him. Her arms fell
                        softly over the bowed shoulders. Her cheek dropped to the dark,
                        gray-streaked hair. There was little change, seemingly. The form was only a
                        little more relaxed, the attitude only a little more helpless. It seemed as
                        if he might have been sleeping. There was a sound, a faint drip, drip, drip,
                        in the room. It was steady, monotonous, like drops falling from rain pipes
                        after the storm is over. Langford opened the door.
                    "Doc! Doc Lockhart! Some one send Doc over here quick! Gordon's office! Be
                        quick about it!" he cried, in a loud, firm voice. Then he closed the door
                        and locked it. In response to his call, footsteps were heard running. The
                        door was tried. Then came loud knocking and voices demanding admittance.
                    "No one can come in but Doc," cried Langford through the keyhole. "Send him
                        quick, somebody, for God's sake! Where's Jim Munson? He'll get him here.
                        Quick, I tell you!"
                    He hastened back to the side of his friend and passed  his hand gently over the right side to find the place whence
                        came that heartbreaking drip. Disappointed in their desire to get in, men
                        crowded before the window. Louise stepped softly forward and drew the blind
                        between him and the mass of curious faces without. She was very pale, but
                        quiet and self-possessed. She had rallied when Langford had whispered to her
                        that Gordon's heart was still beating. The doctor rapped loudly, calling to
                        Langford to open. Paul admitted him and then stepped out in full sight of
                        all, his hand still on the knob. The late moon was just rising. A faint
                        light spread out before him.
                    "Boys," he cried, a great grief in his stern voice, "it's murder. Dick
                        Gordon's murdered. Now get you know what for and be quick about it!"
                    They laid him gently on the floor, took off his coat, and cut away the
                        blood-soaked shirts. Louise assisted with deft, tender hands. Presently, the
                        heavy lids lifted, the gray eyes stared vacantly for a momentthen smiled.
                        Paul bent over him.
                    "What happened, old man?" the wounded man whispered gropingly. It required
                        much effort to say this little, and a shadow of pain fell over his face.
                    "Hush, Dick, dear boy," said Langford, with a catch in his voice. "You're all
                        right now, but you mustn't talk. You're too weak. We are going to move you
                        across to the hotel."
                    "But what happened?" he insisted.
                    
                    "You were shot, you know, Dick. Keep quiet, now! I'm going for a
                        stretcher."
                    "Am I done for?" the weak voice kept on. But there was no fear in it.
                    "You will be if you keep on talking like that." Obeying a sign from the
                        doctor, he slipped away and out. Gordon closed his eyes and was still for a
                        long time. His face was white and drawn with suffering.
                    "Has he fainted?" whispered Louise.
                    The eyes opened quickly. They fell upon Louise, who had not time to draw
                        away. The shadow of the old, sweet smile came and hovered around his
                        lips.
                    "Louise," he whispered.
                    "Yes, it is I," she said, laying her hand lightly on his forehead. "You must
                        be good until Paul gets back."
                    "I'm done for, so the rest of the criminal calendar will have to go over. You
                        can go back to God's country sooner than you thought."
                    "I am not going back to God's country," said Louise, unexpectedly. She had
                        not meant to say it, but she meant it when she said it.
                    "Come here, close to me, Louise," said Gordon, in a low voice. He had
                        forgotten the doctor. "You had better I'll get up if you don't. Closer
                        still. I want you to kiss me before Paul gets back."
                    Louise grew whiter. She glanced hesitatingly at the doctor, timidly at the
                        new lover in the old man. Then  she bent over
                        him where he lay stretched on the floor and kissed him on the lips. A great
                        light came into his eyes before he closed them contentedly and slipped into
                        unconsciousness again.
                    Langford rounded up Jim Munson and sent him across with a stretcher, and then
                        ran up-stairs for an extra blanket off his own bed. It was bitterly cold,
                        and Dick must be well wrapped. On the upper landing, he encountered Mary
                        alone. Something in her desolate attitude stopped him.
                    "What's the matter, Mary," he demanded, seizing her hands.
                    "Nothing," she answered, dully. "How is he?"
                    "All right, I trust and pray, but hurt terribly, wickedly."
                    He did not quite understand. Did she love Gordon? Was that why she looked so
                        heart-broken? Taking her face in his two hands, he compelled her to look at
                        him straight.
                    "Now tell me," he said.
                    "Did I kill him?" she asked.
                    "Kill whom?"
                    "Why, him Jesse Black."
                    Then he understood.
                    "Mary, my girl, was it you? Were those last shots yours?" All the riotous
                        love in him trembled on his tongue.
                    "Did I?" she persisted.
                    
                    "God grant you did," he said, solemnly. "There is blood outside the window,
                        but he is gone."
                    "I don't like to kill people," she said, brokenly.
                    "Why do I always have to do it?"
                    He drew her to him strongly and held her close against his breast.
                    "You are the bravest and best girl on earth," he said. "My girl, you are my
                        girl, you know, hereafter I will do all necessary killing for my wife."
                    He kissed the sweet, quivering lips as he said it.
                    Some one came running up the stairs, and stopped suddenly in front of the two
                        in the passage.
                    "Why, Jim!" cried Langford in surprise. "I thought you had gone with the
                        stretcher."
                    "I did go," said Jim, swallowing hard. He shifted nervously from one spurred
                        foot to the other. "But I came back."
                    He looked at Langford beseechingly.
                    "Boss, I want to see you a minute, ef Mary don't mind."
                    "I will come with you, Jim, now," said Langford with quick apprehension.
                    "Mary,"Jim turned away and stared unseeingly down the staircase, "go back to
                        your room for a little while. I will call for you soon. Keep up your
                        courage."
                    "Wait," said Mary, quietly. There were unsounded depths of despair in her
                        voice, though it was so clear  and low. "There
                        was another shot. I remember now. Jim, tell me!"
                    Jim turned. The rough cowboy's eyes were wet for the first time in many a
                        year.
                    "They hope he won't die, Mary, girl. Your father's shot bad, but he ain't
                        dead. We think Black did it after he run from Gordon's office. We found him
                        on the corner."
                    Langford squared his broad shoulders then put strong, protecting arms around
                        Mary. Now was he her all.
                    "Come, my darling, we will go to him together."
                    She pushed him from her violently.
                    "I will go alone. Why should you come? He is mine. He is all I have there is
                        no one else. Why don't you go? You are big and strong can't you make that
                        man suffer for my father's murder? Jim, take me to him."
                    She seized the cowboy's arm, and they went out together, and on down the
                        stairs.
                    Langford stood still a moment, following them with his eyes. His face was
                        white. He bent his head. Jim, looking back, saw him thus, the dull light
                        from the hall-lamp falling upon the bent head and the yellow hair. When
                        Langford raised his head, his face, though yet white, bore an expression of
                        concentrated determination.
                    He, too, strode quickly down the stairs.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    THE OUTLAW'S LAST STAND
                    IN the morning the sheriff went to the island. He reported the place
                        deserted. He made many other trips. Sometimes he took a deputy with him;
                        more often he rode unaccompanied. Richard Gordon lay helpless in a burning
                        fever, with Paul Langford in constant and untiring attendance upon him.
                        George Williston was a sadly shattered man.
                    "I met Black on the corner west of Gordon's office," he explained, when he
                        could talk. "I had not been able to sleep, and had been walking to tire my
                        nerves into quiet. I was coming back to the hotel when I heard Black's shot
                        and then Mary's. I ran forward and met Black on the corner, running. He
                        stopped, cried out, 'You, too, damn you,' and that's the last I knew until
                        the boys picked me up."
                    These were the most interested Langford, Gordon, Williston. Had they been in
                        the count, things might have been different. It is very probable a posse
                        would have been formed for immediate pursuit. But others must do what had
                        been better done had it not been for those shots in the dark. There was
                        blood outside Gordon's window; yet Black had not crawled home to die.
                    
                    He had not gone home at all, at least, that is what the sheriff said. No one
                        had seen the convicted man after his desperate and spectacular exit from the
                        courtroom no one at least but Louise, Mary, and her father. Mary's shot had
                        not killed him, but it had saved Richard Gordon's life, which was a far
                        better thing. It was impossible to track him out of town, for the cattle had
                        trampled the snow in every direction.
                    The authorities could gather no outside information. The outlying claims and
                        ranches refuted indignantly any hint of their having given aid or shelter to
                        the fugitive, or of having any cognizance whatsoever regarding his possible
                        whereabouts. So the pursuit, at first hot and excited, gradually wearied of
                        following false leads, contented itself with desultory journeys when prodded
                        thereto by the compelling power of public opinion, finally ceased altogether
                        even as a pretence.
                    One of the first things done following the dramatic day in court had been to
                        send the officers out to the little shanty in the valley where the
                        half-breed lay dead across the threshold. A watch was also set upon this
                        place; but no one ever came there.
                    August had come again, and Judge Dale was in Kemah to hear a court case.
                    Langford had ridden in from the ranch on purpose to see Judge Dale. His
                        clothes were spattered with mud. There had been a succession of storms,
                        lasting  for several days; last night a cloud
                        had burst out west somewhere. All the creeks were swollen.
                    "Judge, I believe Jesse Black has been on that island of his all the
                        time."
                    "What makes you think so, Langford?"
                    "Because our sheriff is four-flushing he always was in sympathy with the
                        gang, you know. Besides, where else can Black be?"
                    Dale puckered his lips thoughtfully.
                    "What have you heard?" he asked.
                    "Rumors are getting pretty thick that he has been seen in that neighborhood
                        on several occasions. It is my honest belief he has never left it."
                    "What did you think of doing about it, Langford?"
                    "I want you to give me a bench warrant, Judge. I am confident that I can get
                        him. It is the shame of the county that he is still at large."
                    "You have to deal with one of the worst and most desperate outlaws in the
                        United States. You must know it will be a very hazardous undertaking,
                        granting your surmises to be correct, and fraught with grave peril for some
                        one."
                    "I understand that fully."
                    "This duty is another's, not yours."
                    "But that other is incompetent."
                    "My dear fellow," said the Judge, rising and laying his hand on Langford's
                        big shoulder, "do you really want to undertake this?"
                    
                    "I certainly do."
                    "Then I will give you the warrant, gladly. You are the one man in the State
                        to do it unless I except the gallant little deputy-marshal. You know the
                        danger. I admire your grit, my boy. Get him if you can; but take care of
                        yourself. Your life is worth so much more than his. Who will you take with
                        you?"
                    "Munson, of course. He will go in spite of the devil, and he's the best man I
                        know for anything like this. Then I thought of taking the deputy-sheriff.
                        He's been true blue all along, and has done the very best possible under the
                        conditions."
                    "Very good. Take Johnson, too. He'll be glad to go. He's the pluckiest little
                        fighter in the world, not a cowardly hair in his head."
                    So it was agreed, and the next morning, bright and early, the little posse,
                        reinforced by others who had earnestly solicited the privilege of going
                        along, started out on its journey. The rains were over, but the roads were
                        heavy. In many places, they were forced to walk their mounts. No one but the
                        initiated know what gumbo mud means. Until they took to the hills, the
                        horses could scarcely lift their feet, so great would be the weight of the
                        sticky black earth which clung in immense chunks to their hoofs. When they
                        struck the hills, it was better and they pressed forward rapidly. Once only
                        the sheriff had asserted that he had run across the famous outlaw. Black had
                        resisted savagely 
                        
                            THE LITTLE POSSE STARTED OUT ON
                                    ITS JOURNEY, THE WIRY
                                    MARSHAL FIRST.
                            
                        
                         and had escaped, sending back the bold taunt
                        that he would never be taken alive. Such a message might mean death to some
                        of the plucky posse now making for the old-time haunts of the desperado.
                    The sun struggled from behind rain-exhausted clouds, and a rollicking wind
                        blew up. The clouds skurried away toward the horizon.
                    At White River ford, the men looked at each other in mute inquiry. The stream
                        was a raging torrent. It was swollen until it was half again its ordinary
                        width. The usually placid waters were rushing and twisting into
                        whirlpool-like rapids.
                    "What now?" asked Baker, the deputy-sheriff.
                    "I'm thinkin' this here little pleasure party'll have to be postponed,"
                        vouchsafed one of the volunteers, nodding his head wisely.
                    "We'll sure have to wait for the cloud-bust to run out," agreed another.
                    "Why, we can swim that all right," put in Langford, rallying from his
                        momentary set-back and riding his mount to the very edge of the swirling
                        water.
                    "Hold on a minute there, Boss," cried Jim. "Don't be rash now. What's the
                        census of 'pinion o' this here company? Shall we resk the ford or shall we
                        not?"
                    "Why, Jim," said Paul, a laugh in his blue eyes, "are you afraid? What's come
                        over you?"
                    "Nothin'. I ain't no coward neither, and ef you  wasn't the Boss I'd show you. I was just a thinkin' o'somebody who'd care
                        that's all."
                    Just for a moment a far-away look came into the young ranchman's eyes. Then
                        he straightened himself in his saddle.
                    "I, for one, am going to see this thing through," he said, tersely. "What do
                        you say, Johnson?"
                    "I never for one minute calculated on doing a thing else," replied the
                        deputy-marshal, who had been standing somewhat apart awaiting the end of the
                        controversy, with a good-humored smile in his twinkling blue eyes.
                    "Good for you! Then come on!"
                    Paul urged Sade into the water. He was followed unhesitatingly by Munson,
                        Johnson, and Baker. The others held back, and finally, after a short
                        consultation, wheeled and retraced their steps.
                    "I ain't no coward, neither," muttered one, as he rode away, "but I plumb
                        don't see no sense in bein' drownded. I'd ruther be killed a roundin' up
                        Jesse."
                    The horses which had made the initial plunge were already in water up to
                        their breasts. The current had an ominous rush to it.
                    "I don't care. I didn't mean to hold over and let our quarry get wind of this
                        affair," cried Langford, over his shoulder. "Keep your rifles dry,
                        boys!"
                    Suddenly, without warning, Sade stepped into a hole and lost her balance for
                        a moment. She struggled gallantly and recovered herself, yet it weakened
                        her.
                    
                    It was not long before all the horses were compelled to swim, and the force
                        of the current immediately began driving them down stream. Sade fought
                        bravely against the pressure. She was a plucky little cow pony and loved her
                        master, but it was about all she could do to keep from going under, let
                        alone making much headway against the tremendous pressure of the current.
                        Langford's danger was grave.
                    "Steady, my girl!" he encouraged. He flung his feet free of the stirrups so
                        that, if she went under, he would be ready to try it alone. Poor Sade! He
                        should hate to lose her. If he released her now and struck off by himself,
                        she might make it. He had never known White River to run so sullenly and
                        strongly; it would be almost impossible for a man to breast it. And there
                        was Mary he could never go back to her and claim her for his own until he
                        could bring Black back, too, to suffer for her father's wrongs.
                    At that moment, Sade gave a little convulsive shudder, and the water rolled
                        over her head. Langford slipped from the saddle, but in the instant of
                        contact with the pushing current, his rifle was jerked violently from his
                        hand and sank out of sight. With no time for vain regrets, he struck out for
                        the shore. The struggle was tremendous. He was buffeted and beaten, and
                        borne farther and farther down the stream. More than once in the endeavor to
                        strike too squarely across,  his head went
                        under; but he was a strong swimmer, and soon scrambling up the bank some
                        distance below the ford, he turned and sent a resonant hail to his comrades.
                        They responded lustily. He had been the only one unhorsed. He threw himself
                        face downward to cough up some of the water he had been compelled to
                        swallow, and Munson, running up, began slapping him vigorously upon the
                        back. He desisted only to run swiftly along the bank.
                    "Good for you," Jim cried, approvingly, assisting Langford's spent horse up
                        the bank. Coming up to the party where Langford still lay stretched out full
                        length, Sade rubbed her nose inquiringly over the big shoulders lying so
                        low, and whinnied softly.
                    "Hello there!" cried Paul, springing excitedly to his feet. "Where'd you come
                        from? Thought you had crossed the bar. Now I'll just borrow a gun from one
                        of you fellows and we'll be getting along. Better my rifle than my horse at
                        this stage of the game, anyway."
                    The little party pushed on. The longer half of their journey was still before
                        them. On the whole, perhaps, it was better the crowd had split. There was
                        more unity of purpose among those who were left. The sun was getting hot,
                        and Langford's clothes dried rapidly.
                    Arrived at the entrance of the cross ravine which Williston had once sought
                        out, the four men rode their horses safely through its length. The waters of
                        the June rise had receded, and the outlaw's presumably  deserted holding was once more a peninsula. The wooded section
                        in the near distance lay green, cool, and innocent-looking in the late
                        summer sun. The sands between stretched out hot in the white glare. From the
                        gulch covert, the wiry marshal rode first. His face bore its wonted
                        expression of good-humored alertness, but there was an inscrutable glint in
                        his eyes that might have found place there because of a sure realization of
                        the hazard of the situation and of his accepting it. Langford followed him
                        quickly, and Munson and Baker were not far behind. They trotted breezily
                        across the open in a bunch, without words. Where the indistinct trail to the
                        house slipped into the wooded enclosure, they paused. Was the desperado at
                        last really rounded up so that he must either submit quietly or turn at bay?
                        It was so still. Spots of sunlight had filtered through the foliage and
                        flecked the pathway. Insects flitted about. Bumble bees droned. Butterflies
                        hovered over the snow-on-the-mountain. A turtle dove mourned. A snake glided
                        sinuously through the grass. Peering down the warm, shaded interior, one
                        might almost imagine one was in the heart of an ancient wood. The drowsy
                        suggestions of solitude crept in upon the sensibilities of all the men and
                        filled them with vague doubts. If this was the haunt of a man, a careless,
                        sordid man, would this place which knew him breathe forth so sweet, still,
                        and undisturbed a peace?
                    
                    Langford first shook himself free of the haunting fear of a deserted
                        hearthstone.
                    "I'd stake my all on my belief that he's there," he said, in a low voice.
                        "Now listen, boys. Johnson and I will ride to the house and make the arrest,
                        providing he doesn't give us the slip. Baker, you and Jim will remain here
                        in ambush in case he does. He's bound to come this way to reach the
                        mainland. Ready, Johnson?"
                    Jim interposed. His face was flinty with purpose.
                    "Not ef the court knows herself, and I think she do. Me and Johnson will do
                        that there little arrestin' job and the Boss he'll stay here in the ambush.
                        Ef anybody's a countin' on my totin' the Boss's openwork body back to Mary
                        Williston, it's high time he was a losin' the count, for I ain't goin' to do
                        it."
                    He guided his horse straight into the path.
                    "But, Jim," expostulated Langford, laying a detaining hand on the cowboy's
                        shoulder, "as for danger, there's every bit as much and more here. Do you
                        think Jesse Black will tamely sit down and wait for us to come up and nab
                        him? I think he'll run."
                    "Then why are you a shirkin', ef this is the worst spot o' all? You ain't no
                        coward, Boss, leastways you never was. Why don't you stay by it? That's what
                        I'd like to know."
                    Johnson grinned appreciatively.
                    
                    "Well, there's always the supposition that he may not see us until we ride
                        into his clearing," admitted Langford. "Of course, then it's too late."
                    Jim blocked the way.
                    "I'm an ornery, no-'count cowboy with no one in this hull world to know or
                        care what becomes o' me. There ain't no one to care but me, and I can't say
                        I'm a hurtin' myself any a carin'! You just wait till I screech, will
                        you?"
                    "Jim," said Langford, huskily, "you go back and behave yourself. I'm the Boss
                        not you. You've got to obey orders. You've sassed me long enough. You get
                        back, now!"
                    "Tell Mary, ef I come back a deader," said Jim, "that women are s'perfluous
                        critters, but I forgive her. She can't help bein' a woman."
                    He gave his horse a dig with his knee and the animal bounded briskly
                        forward.
                    "Jim! You fool boy! Come back!" cried Langford, plunging after him.
                    Johnson shrugged his shoulders, and wheeled his horse into clever concealment
                        on one side of the path.
                    "Let the fool kids go," he advised, dryly. "I'm a lookin' for Jess to run,
                        anyway."
                    The two men rode boldly up toward the house. It seemed deserted. Weeds were
                        growing around the door-stoop, and crowding thickly up to the front windows.
                        A spider's silver web gleamed from casing to 
                        panel of the warped and weather-stained door. The windows were blurred with
                        the tricklings of rain through seasons of dust. Everything appeared unkempt,
                        forlorn, desolate.
                    There was a sound from the rear. It carried a stealthy significance. A man
                        leaped from the protection of the cabin and was seen running toward the
                        barn. He was heavily armed.
                    "Stop that, Black!" yelled Langford, authoritatively. "We are going to take
                        you, dead or alive you'd better give yourself up! It will be better for
                        you!"
                    The man answered nothing.
                    "Wing him with your rifle, Jim, before he gets to the barn," said Paul,
                        quickly.
                    The shot went wild. Black wrenched the door open, sprang upon the already
                        bridled horse, and made a bold dash for the farther woods and not in the
                        direction where determined men waited in ambush. What did it mean? As his
                        horse cleared the stable, he turned and shot a vindictive challenge to meet
                        his pursuers.
                    "You won't take me alive and dead, I won't go alone!"
                    He plunged forward in a northerly direction. Dimly he could be seen through
                        the underbrush; but plainly could be heard the crackling of branches and the
                        snapping of twigs as his horse whipped through the low-lying foliage. Was
                        there, then, another way to  the mainlandother
                        than the one over which Johnson and Baker kept guard? How could it be? How
                        Langford longed for his good rifle and its carrying power. But he knew how
                        to use a pistol, too. Both men sent menacing shots after the fugitive.
                        Langford could not account for the strange direction. The only solution was
                        that Black was leading his pursuers a chase through the woods, hoping to
                        decoy them so deeply into the interior that he might, turning suddenly and
                        straightly, gain time for his desperate sprint across the exposed stretch of
                        sand. If this were true, Baker and Johnson would take care of him there.
                    Black returned the fire vengefully. A bullet scraped his horse's flank. His
                        hat was shot from his head. He turned savagely in his saddle with a yell of
                        defiance.
                    "You'll never take me alive!"
                    The fusillade was furious, but the trees and branches proved Black's friends.
                        It was impossible to judge one's aim aright. His horse staggered. Another
                        bullet sang and purred through the foliage, and the horse fell.
                    "My God, Jim!" cried Langford. "My cartridges are out! Give me your gun!"
                    For answer, Jim sent another bullet whistling forward. Black, rising from his
                        fallen horse, fell back.
                    "I got him!" yelled Jim, exultantly. He spurred forward.
                    "Careful, Jim!" warned Langford. "He may be 'playing possum,' you know."
                    
                    "You stay where you are," cried Jim. "You ain't got no gun. Stay back, you
                        fool Boss!"
                    Langford laughed a little.
                    "You're the fool boy, Jim," he said. "I'll go without a gun if you won't give
                        me yours."
                    They rode cautiously up to the prostrate figure. It was lying face downward,
                        one arm outstretched on the body of the dead horse, the other crumpled under
                        the man's breast. Blood oozed from under his shoulder.
                    "He's done for," said Jim, in a low voice. In the presence of death, all
                        hatred had gone from him. The man apparently had paid all he could of his
                        debts on earth. The body lying there so low was the body of a real man.
                        Whatever his crimes, he had been a fine type of physical manhood. He had
                        never cringed. He had died like a man, fighting to the last.
                    Jim slowly and thoughtfully slipped his revolver into its holster and
                        dismounted. Langford, too, sprang lightly from his saddle.
                    Black had been waiting for this. His trained ear had no sooner caught the
                        soft rubbing sound of the pistol slipping into its leathern case than he
                        leaped to his feet and stretched out the crumpled arm with its deadly weapon
                        pointing straight at the heart of Langford of the Three Bars.
                    "Now, damn you, we're quits!" he cried, hoarsely. There was not time for Jim
                        to draw, but, agile as a cat, he threw himself against Black's arm and the
                        bullet  went wild. For a moment the advantage
                        was his, and he wrested the weapon from Black's hand. It fell to the ground.
                        The two men grappled. The struggle was short and fierce. Each strove with
                        all the strength of his concentrated hate to keep the other's hand from his
                        belt.
                    When the feet of the wrestlers left the fallen weapon free, Langford, who had
                        been waiting for this opportunity, sprang forward and seized it with a
                        thrill of satisfaction. Command of the situation was once more his. But the
                        revolver was empty, and he turned to throw himself into the struggle
                        empty-handed. Jim would thus be given a chance to draw.
                    At that moment, Black twisted his arm free and his hand dropped like a flash
                        to his belt, where there was a revolver that was loaded. Jim hugged him
                        closely, but it was of no use now. The bullet tore its cruel way through his
                        side. His arms relaxed their holdhe slipped slowly downdown. Black shook
                        himself free of him impatiently and wheeled to meet his great enemy.
                    "Quits at last!" he said, with an ugly smile.
                    Quits indeed! For Jim, raising himself slightly, was able to draw at last;
                        and even as he spoke, the outlaw fell.
                    "Jim, my boy," said Langford, huskily. He was kneeling, Jim's head in his
                        arms.
                    "Well, Boss," said Jim, trying to smile. His eyes were clear.
                    
                    "It was my affair, Jim, you ought not to have done it," said Langford,
                        brokenly.
                    "It's all right Boss don't you worry I saw youin the hall that night. You are
                        the Boss. Tell Mary so. Tell her I wasglad to go so you could go to her and
                        it would be all right. She loves you Boss you needn't be afraid."
                    "Jim, I cannot bear it; I must go in your stead."
                    "To Mary yes." His voice sank lower and lower. An added paleness stole over
                        his face, but his eyes looked into Langford's serenely, almost happily.
                    "Go to Mary in my stead Boss," he whispered.
                    "Tell her Jim gave his Boss to her when he had to go tell her he was glad to
                        go I used to think it was 'Mouse-hair' I am glad it is Mary tell her
                        good-bye tell her the Three Bars wouldn't be the same to Jim with a woman in
                        it anyway tell her " And with a sigh Jim died.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    THE PARTY AT THE LAZY S
                    MARY stared thoughtfully into the mirror. It was a better one than the sliver
                        into which she had looked more than a year before, when Paul Langford came
                        riding over the plains to the Lazy S. A better house had risen from the
                        ashes of the homestead laid waste by the cattle rustlers. Affairs were well
                        with George Williston now that the hand of no man was against him. He
                        prospered.
                    Louise stepped to the door.
                    "I am in despair, Mary," she said, whimsically.
                    "Mrs. White has ordered me out of the kitchen. What do you think of
                        that?"
                    "Louise! Did you really have the hardihood to presume to encroach on Mother
                        White's preserves you a mere bride of five months' standing? You should be
                        grateful she didn't take the broom to you."
                    "She can cook," said Louise, laughing. "I admit that. I only offered to peel
                        potatoes. When one stops to consider that the whole county is coming to the
                        'house-warming' of the Lazy S, one can't help being worried about potatoes
                        and such minor things."
                    
                    "Do you think the whole county is coming, Louise?" asked Mary.
                    "Of course," said Louise Gordon, positively, slipping away again. She was a
                        welcome guest at the ranch, and her heart was in the success of to-night's
                        party.
                    Mary had dressed early. As hostess, she had laid aside her short skirt,
                        leather leggings, and other boyish "fixings" which she usually assumed for
                        better ease in her life of riding. She was clad simply in a long black skirt
                        and white shirt-waist. Her hair was coiled in thick braids about her
                        well-shaped head, lending her a most becoming stateliness.
                    Would Paul Langford come? He had been bidden. Her father could not know that
                        he would not care to come. Her father did not know that she had sent
                        Langford away that long-ago night in December and that he had not come back
                        at least to her. Naturally, he had been bidden first to George Williston's
                        'house-warming.' The men of the Three Bars and of the Lazy S were tried
                        friends but he would not care to come.
                    Listen! Some one was coming. It was much too soon for guests. The early
                        October twilight was only now creeping softly over the landscape. It was a
                        still evening. She heard distinctly the rhythmical pound of hoof-beats on
                        the hardened trail. Would the rider go on to Kemah, or would he turn in at
                        the Lazy S?
                    
                    "Hello, the house!" hailed the horseman, cheerily, drawing rein at the very
                        door. "Hello, within!"
                    The visitor threw wide the door, and Williston's voice called cordially:
                    "Come in, come in, Langford! I am glad you came early."
                    "Will you send Mary out, Williston? I need your chore boy to help me water
                        Sade here."
                    The voice was merry, but there was a vibrant tone in it that made the
                        listening girl tremble a little. Langford never waited for opportunities. He
                        made them.
                    Mary came to the door with quiet self-composure. She had known from the first
                        the stranger was Langford. How like the scene of a summer's day more than a
                        year past; but how far sweeter the maid how much more it meant to the man
                        now than then!
                    "Father, show Mr. Langford in," she said, smiling a welcome. "I shall be glad
                        to take Sade to the spring."
                    She took hold of the bridle rein trailing to the ground. Langford leaped
                        lightly from his saddle.
                    "I said 'help me,'" he corrected.
                    "The spring is down there," she directed. "I think you know the way." She
                        turned to enter the house.
                    For an instant, Langford hesitated. A shadow fell across his face.
                    "I want you to come, Mary," he said, simply. "It is only hospitable, you
                        know."
                    
                    "Oh, if you put it in that way ," she started gayly down the path.
                    He followed her more slowly. A young moon hung in the western sky. The air
                        was crisp with the coming frost. The path was strewn with dead cottonwood
                        leaves which rustled dryly under their feet.
                    At the spring, shadowed by the biggest cottonwood, she waited for him.
                    "I wish my father would cut down that tree," she said, shivering.
                    "You are cold," he said. His voice was not quite steady. He took off his coat
                        and wrapped it around her, despite her protests. He wanted to hold her then,
                        but he did not, though the touch of her sent the blood bounding riotously
                        through his veins.
                    "You shall wear the coat. I do not want you to go in yet."
                    "But Sade has finished, and people will be coming soon."
                    "I will not keep you long. I want you to Mary, my girl, I tried to kill
                        Black, but Jim " his voice choked a little "if it hadn't been for Jim, Black
                        would have killed me. I thought I could do it. I meant to have you. Jim said
                        it was all the same his doing it in my stead. I came to-night to ask you if
                        it is the same. Is it, Mary?"
                    She did not answer for a little while. How still a night it was! Lights
                        twinkled from the windows of  the new house.
                        Now and then a dry leaf rustled as some one, the man, the girl, or the
                        horse, moved.
                    "It is the same," she said at last, brokenly.
                    Her eyes were heavy with unshed tears. "But I never meant it, Paul. I was
                        wild that night, but I never meant that you or Jim should take life or or
                        give yours. I never meant it!"
                    His heart leaped, but he did not touch her.
                    "Do you love me?" he asked.
                    She turned restlessly toward the house.
                    "My father will be wanting me," she said. "I must go."
                    "You shall not go until you have told me," he said. "You must tell me. You
                        never have, you know. Do you love me?"
                    "You have not told me, either," she resisted. "You are not fair."
                    He laughed under his breath, then bent his sunny head close.
                    "Have you forgotten so soon?" he whispered.
                    Suddenly, he caught her to him, strongly, as was his way.
                    "I will tell you again," he said, softly. "I love you, my girl, do you hear?
                        There is no one but you in all the world."
                    The fair head bent closer and closer, then he kissed her the little
                        man-coated figure in his arms.
                    "I love you," he said.
                    
                    She trembled in his embrace. He kissed her again.
                    "I love you," he repeated.
                    She hid her face on his breast. He lifted it gently.
                    "I tell you I love you," he said.
                    He placed her arms around his neck. She pressed her lips to his, once,
                        softly.
                    "I love you," she whispered.
                    "My girl, my girl!" he said in answer. The confession was far sweeter than he
                        had ever dreamed. He held her cheek pressed close to his for a long
                        moment.
                    "The Three Bars is waiting for its mistress," he said at last, exultantly. "A
                        mistress and a new foreman all at once the boys will have to step
                        lively."
                    "A new foreman?" asked Mary in surprise. "I did not know you had a new
                        foreman."
                    "I shall have one in a month," he said, smilingly. "By that time, George
                        Williston will have sold the Lazy S for good money, invested the proceeds in
                        cattle, turned the whole bunch in to range with the Three Bars herds, and on
                        November first, he will take charge of the worldly affairs of one Paul
                        Langford and his wife, of the Three Bars."
                    "Really, Paul?" The brown eyes shone with pleasure.
                    "Really, Mary."
                    "Has my father consented?"
                    "No, but he will when he finds I cannot do without him and when I marry his
                        daughter."
                    
                    Hoof-beats on the sod! The guests were coming at last. The beats rang nearer
                        and nearer. From Kemah, from the Three Bars trail, from across country, they
                        were coming. All the neighboring ranchmen and homesteaders with their
                        families and all the available cowboys had been bidden to the frolic. The
                        stable-yard was filling. Hearty greetings, loud talking, and laughter
                        floated out on the still air.
                    Laughing like children caught in a prank, the two at the spring clasped hands
                        and ran swiftly to the house. Breathless but radiant, Mary came forward to
                        greet her guests while Langford slipped away to put up Sade.
                    The revel was at its highest. Mary and Louise were distributing good things
                        to eat and drink to the hungry cowmen. The rooms were so crowded, many stood
                        without, looking in at the doors and windows. The fragrance of hot coffee
                        drifted in from the kitchen.
                    Langford stood up. A sudden quiet fell upon the people.
                    "Friends and neighbors," he said, "shall we drink to the prosperity of the
                        Lazy S, the health and happiness of its master and its mistress?"
                    The health was drunk with cheers and noisy congratulations. Conversation
                        began again, but Langford still stood.
                    "Friends and neighbors," he said again. His voice was grave. "Let us drink to
                        one not with us  to-night a brave man " in
                        spite of himself his voice broke "let us drink to the memory of Jim
                        Munson."
                    Silently all rose, and drank. They were rough men and women, most of them,
                        but they were a people who held personal bravery among the virtues. Many
                        stood with dimmed eyes, picturing that final scene on the island in which a
                        brave man's life had closed. Few there would soon forget Jim Munson,
                        cow-puncher of the Three Bars.
                    There was yet another toast Langford was to propose to-night. Now was the
                        opportune time. Jim would have wished it so. It was fitting that this toast
                        follow Jim's it was Jim who had made it possible that it be given. He turned
                        to Mary and touched her lightly on the shoulder.
                    "Will you come, Mary?" he said.
                    She went with him, wonderingly. He led her to the centre of the room. His arm
                        fell gently over her shoulders. Her cheeks flushed with the sudden knowledge
                        of what was coming, but she looked at him with perfect trust and
                        unquestioning love.
                    "Friends and neighbors," his voice rang out so that all might hear, "I ask
                        you to drink to the health and happiness of the future mistress of the Three
                        Bars!"
                    THE END
                
            
        
        
        
            
                RECENT WESTERN FICTION PUBLISHED BY A. C. McCLURG &
                    CO.
                
                
                    RANDALL PARRISH'S FAMOUS STORY OF DAKOTA IN THE '70's BOB
                        HAMPTON OF PLACER
                    The surpassing power of this new novel marks it not only as the best by Mr.
                        Parrish, but as, probably, the strongest in human interest of the season.
                        Seldom has any novel exceeded it in virile strength and the quality that
                        arouses the emotions. Grand Rapids Herald.
                    
                    Randall Parrish's latest novel is by far his best and comes as an
                        invigorating relief from the flood of wild and woolly Western clap-trap that
                        followed the success of Wister's "Virginian." Bob Hampton of Placer and all
                        the men and women who figure in the pages of Mr. Parrish's latest story are
                        creatures of flesh and blood. They are of the West Western, and the
                        presentment of their surroundings is true and leal to this biggest, bravest,
                        breeziest, and best region of America. The incidents of the narrative are
                        stirring without improbability, thrilling without the blood-raw
                        preposterousness of so many "Western tales." The epical event of the book is
                        Custer's last fight, but the scenes, personages, and events surrounding it
                        are naturally and convincingly tributary to the novel. Helena
                            Independent.
                    
                    The story is told with immense interest and is one that no reader will
                        willingly lay down after beginning it. Parrish is well known to the reading
                        public. This novel proves that he has not lost any of his artistic genius or
                        strength of conception and skilful working out of detail. It is a
                        wonderfully attractive story. Salt Lake Tribune.
                    
                    Illustrated in Color by Arthur I. Keller
                    A. C. McCLURG & CO., Publishers
                
                
                
                    EIGHT EDITIONS IN FOUR MONTHS OF BOB HAMPTON OF PLACER
                    American literature owes much to Mr. Parrish, and he is increasing the debt
                        still more and more with every new volume. There is no other among the
                        noteworthy writers of the day just like him, and very few in the notable
                        army who have preceded him.
                    
                        If the long-sought and oft-prophesied American novel were to be
                            selected from the fiction that has already been written on this side of
                            the big water, it would not be strange if the mark of pure gold were to
                            fall upon one of these four remarkable stories that Randall Parrish has
                            placed upon the world's shelves.
                    
                    There will be those in any number who will contend that this last series of
                        Western pictures is his best, and certain it is that he has never done
                        better descriptive work than in his dramatic story of the Little Big Horn,
                        the tragedy which ended the promising career of General Custer and gave a
                        new definition to the word "horror."Detroit Times.
                    
                    "Bob Hampton of Placer" is another thrilling American novel by Randall
                        Parrish. Like its predecessors, it commands attention from the start and
                        holds the interest absorbed by its continuous action. Furthermore it is a
                        notably well-written story, exhibiting the author's rare sense of dramatic
                        values. Praise must be given to the typographical excellence of the novel
                        and its mechanical workmanship in general. Philadelphia
                            Press.
                    
                    Illustrated in Color by Arthur I. Keller
                    A. C. McCLURG & CO., Publishers
                
                
                
                    THIRTY THOUSAND COPIES PRINTED OF BEN BLAIR The Story of a
                        Plainsman
                    By WILL LILLIBRIDGE
                    "Ben Blair" is probably one of the best novels we shall get this year. . . .
                        We prefer "Ben Blair" to "The Virginian" on account of the author's
                        determined persistence in avoiding effeminacy. . . . "Ben Blair" is more
                        than a frontier romance; it is a character novel worked out with all the
                        singleness of purpose necessary to make an impressive story, whatever the
                        environment. Brooklyn Daily Eagle.
                    
                    As truly picturesque and vivid a conception of breezy cowboy Western life as
                        has come to hand in many a day is found between the covers of "Ben Blair." .
                        . . There is more real force and swing to the book as a whole, than
                        experience has led us to expect in half a dozen modern stories. Scotty and
                        Rankin and Ben are three gigantic conceptions who leave an indelible
                        impression of stalwart manhood. New York American.
                    
                    Mr. Lillibridge has the knack of etching a scene on the memory with a few
                        clear-cut lines. He also has caught the atmosphere of the prairies, and
                        conveys something of the elemental force of character that their wide
                        horizons seem to foster. Chicago Record-Herald.
                    
                    There is no denying the strength and fascination of some of the descriptive
                        work. There is a man-hunt of extraordinary terror and vividness, and other
                        striking descriptions of life as it exists on the border. Mr. Lillibridge
                        has a style, he has something to say, and he is in earnest about his work.
                            Chicago Daily Tribune.
                    
                    The story is one of real life and red blood, and the reader who is able to
                        lay it aside for even an hour without regret, before the end is reached,
                        fairly passeth our understanding. Detroit Times.
                    
                    We are inclined to say that "Ben Blair" is superior to "The Virginian." Baltimore Sun.
                    
                    Frontispiece in Color by Maynard Dixon
                    A. C. McCLURG & CO., Publishers
                
                
                
                    A YOUNG LOCHINVAR OF THE WEST BEN BLAIR The Story of a
                        Plainsman
                    By WILL LILLIBRIDGE
                    "Ben Blair" is worthy of consideration among the best productions of the
                        season. Two-thirds of the novel treat of life on the Dakota plains. Here the
                        author seems to be so completely in his element, that he apparently sketches
                        his characters with his eyes shut, and by merely throwing his brush at the
                        canvas produces a vivid picture of the desert and its living, breathing
                        soul. New York Times Saturday Review.
                    
                    In the wilds of Dakota, Ben Blair first sees the light. Raised on a cattle
                        ranch, and surrounded with the strength of the plains and the passions of
                        the men who rode the bronchos, he becomes a Viking in force, in fortitude,
                        and in the elements which make the leader and the conqueror. . . . Mr.
                        Lillibridge draws the pictures of men, powerful in evil and potent for good,
                        in strong colors, that neither the heat of hate nor the rain of tears will
                        alter or change. Seattle Post-Intelligencer.
                    
                    For cold-blooded determination that certainly was brutal and which was almost
                        malignant, commend us to the chase of his benefactor's murderer by Ben. . .
                        . We know of only two other things in modern literature which equal it in
                        power and impressiveness McTeague's mad flight, as told by Frank Norris, and
                        the wonderful description of the chase of the fugitive Indian by the Hudson
                        Bay Company trappers in Stewart Edward White's "The Silent Places."Cleveland Leader.
                    
                    The publishers certainly do not exaggerate when they say the novel has some
                        tremendously strong situations and a splendid Western atmosphere. . . Jack
                        London in full fury cannot make your heart beat faster than this ambitious
                        new writer. New York Globe.
                    
                    If you have not read "Ben Blair," and fate, or the inexorable decree of a
                        restricted purse, has ordered that but one book shall be bought this month,
                        buy "Ben Blair" and let the others go hang. For it is wholesome, virile,
                        refreshing, strengthening. Des Moines Register and Leader.
                    
                    Frontispiece in Color by Maynard Dixon
                    A. C. McCLURG & CO., Publishers
                
                
                
                    SIX EDITIONS MORE THAN 23,000 COPIES IN A YEAR FOR THE SOUL
                        OF RAFAEL
                    By MARAH ELLIS RYAN
                    When a dashing, pleasure-loving Spaniard has a marriage "arranged" for him
                        with a beautiful saint-like young woman he has never seen, it is hardly
                        reasonable to expect any happiness from such a union. A man like Rafael
                        would scarcely be in sympathy with the amount of time his wife spent at the
                        confessional. His friends would scarcely be her friends. And in a case like
                        this there is always some one to catch the wandering eye of the indifferent
                        husband.
                    It is not possible in a word to convey any adequate idea of the glowing,
                        picturesque quality of this romance of Old California, in which the
                        characters are of the fine aristocratic Spanish type. There is some tragedy
                        in the book, of course, but as a story it is wonderfully moving, and of
                        absorbing interest from the very beginning.
                    "No one can read the story," remarks the Milwaukee
                            Sentinel, "without a better conception of the character of the
                        Mexicans who clustered about the mission churches in California. The
                        contrasts have been handled by the author with telling strength. The
                        characters are real and living. The pathos is like the twilight before the
                        moon comes up to bathe all in its beauty. The golden hope flooded Raquel's
                        life with a beauty none knew but herself. She stood upon a plane above them
                        all, drawing her sustenance from a hidden source. She had found happiness,
                        and through bitter sorrow had at last reached the highest sphere of
                        blessedness, where she awaited calmly the reward she knew would be hers, at
                        last, when all the mists had cleared away."
                    
                        There rarely has been issued a romance upon which so much
                            attention and care have been expended to make it a consistent and
                            beautiful book. From every standpoint from the symmetrically printed
                            page, with its symbolic borders in tint, and the end leaf patterns and
                            emblematical chapter initials, to the nineteen full-page illustrations
                            in sepia from a series of remarkable photographs (made expressly for it)
                            the book is presented in an artistic and satisfying make-up.
                    
                    A. C. McCLURG & CO., Publishers
                
                
                
                    IN PRAISE OF FOR THE SOUL OF RAFAEL
                    By MARAH ELLIS RYAN
                    The whole story is told with extreme delicacy, and the love-episodes between
                        Rafael and Keith are marked by exquisite refinement of expression. Boston Herald.
                    
                    With many illustrations made from photographs taken especially for it, and
                        with decorated pages, with a beautiful soft paper and a striking cover, this
                        book makes an immediate impression upon the reader. Buffalo
                            Express.
                    
                    The story is another proof of the romantic glamour of the life of the
                        Missions and the forces of Western history. Mrs. Ryan has entered the
                        classic path with imaginative insight. The Denver
                            News-Times.
                    
                    One wonders at the color which Mrs. Ryan has put into her romance. Mere words
                        produce seldom so vivid an impression of a great painting in which the
                        figures move and speak and love and flirt and dance, and sometimes die. The New York World.
                    
                    "Rafael" is as full of prismatic life and color as one of the jewels that
                        figure so dramatically in the drama's conclusion. Chicago
                            Record-Herald.
                    
                    With the regal splendor of typography and art, "Rafael" makes an instant
                        appeal to the admiration of those who love the beautiful. Philadelphia Record.
                    
                    The style of the tale is as rich and glowing as the brilliant skies and
                        flower-covered soil. Cleveland Plain Dealer.
                    
                    For those who know and love California, the charm of the book centres in the
                        graphic touches of local color. Providence Journal.
                    
                    This is one of three books that, like "Ramona," reproduce the beauty of the
                        land and the spirit of the old missions. Detroit Free
                            Press.
                    
                    A graceful and picturesque romance of early California days. New
                            York Sun.
                    
                    A. C. McCLURG & CO., Publishers
                
                
                
                    A CAPITAL ROMANCE of the WEST and the BUILDING of the CENTRAL
                        PACIFIC THE IRON WAY
                    By SARAH PRATT CARR
                    The "Iron Way" is the Central Pacific Railroad. The completion of this great
                        enterprise in 1867 provides the material for a story full of action and the
                        power of big events. The author has made skilful use of some of the giant
                        promoters of that day Leland Stanford, Collis P. Huntington, Mark Hopkins,
                        and Charles Crocker, upon whose initiative the railroad was planned and
                        built. But the railroad sets the scene for a tale of thrilling interest.
                        Alfred Vincent, son of a cultured Eastern family, throws in his lot with the
                        new road as confidential agent, standing guard over its interests against
                        the wire-cutters, wreckers, and men of the most desperate character. Stella
                        Anthony is the charming woman for whom two men risk all, and the bestowal of
                        whose love upon one of them crowns a most fascinating romance. The secondary
                        characters are admirably drawn, particularly Uncle Billy, who smothers love
                        in life-long friendship, and Sally B., a dominant and true-hearted woman
                        these two establish themselves firmly with the reader from the very
                        start.
                    With 4 Illustrations and Cover Design by J. W. Norton
                    A. C. McCLURG & CO., Publishers
                
            
        
    
