
     ----CITATION---- 
        House, Benjamin Davenport, 1844-1887. Poems of Ben. D. House: With Biographical Sketch: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3907
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    PHOTOGRAVURE BY WM B. BURFORD, INDIANAPOLIS
                    BEN. D. HOUSE
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    POEMS OF BEN. D. HOUSE
                    WITH BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
                
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    CARLON & HOLLENBECK
                    1892
                
            
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                     A Christmas Prayer 27
                    Alter Ego 16
                    A Summer Day 56
                    At the Station 23
                    A Vision of the Styx--A Dream 47
                    Baby Helen 42
                    Biographical Sketch1
                    Coventry Bridge 33
                    Dedication of the Soldiers' Orphans' Home 53
                    For Seven Years 64
                    From the South 22
                    God's Gift 37
                    Grant 17
                    Home Life 36
                    Hope 64
                    I Am 20
                    It Will Be Well 32
                    Judge Not 68
                    Lake Lyon 66
                    Leander to Hero 13
                    Love's Triumph 25
                    "Maquam" 24
                    Morton 52
                    Myopia 63
                    No Change 19
                    "Present Arms!" 10
                    Revealment 59
                    Sugaring 45
                    The Blank Bulletin-Board 65
                    The Hidden Hand 31
                    The Homeward Road 60
                    The Master Painter 69
                    The Wine of Summer 39
                    Trust 68
                    Were It But True 15
                    Winter Etchings 28
                
            
            
            
                BEN. D. HOUSE.
                BORN AT SEA, NOVEMBER 18, 1844. DIED AT INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 4,
                    1887.
                After five years one may be surer of a judgment than on the day it is formed. In
                    that time there is opportunity for a change of attitude and for frequent
                    revision of opinion. In the case of an estimate of a man, it is possible to
                    speak more dispassionately and with greater fairness. When Ben. D. House died,
                    July 4, 1887, there were those of his friends who believed he left behind him
                    literary work that would live. After half a decade those friends still believed
                    in the vitality of his verse, and they wish, by this volume, to put in permanent
                    form certain of his poems which have seemed to be worthy of a more stable
                    setting than scrap-books. The verse contained in this volume is selected from a
                    mass of manuscript and from the poems printed by Mr. House and given the
                    sanction of his own signature.  In coming to this
                    work, the editors have been guided by a sense of what their friend, were he
                    living, would approve.
                The life of Ben. D. House was a strange one. The restless waters of the ocean on
                    which he was born were the prophetic symbol of his life; through it all there
                    floated " the murmurs and scents of the infinite sea." Details
                    of biography are lacking. We know that Mr. House's father was a
                    Congregational clergyman, a man of cultivation, who took great interest in the
                    sciences. The family resided at St. Johnsbury, Vt., and at other points in New
                    England. The boy Benjamin (it was characteristic that he should always abridge
                    his name) did not take kindly to the schools. He fought discipline as a boy, and
                    throughout his life he maintained a personal independence that frequently
                    involved him in difficulties. But if his education was largely self-acquired, it
                    was wide in its range, and it was drawn from many sources. His memory was
                    phenomenal, and what he read or learned by observation was never lost.
                
                The last of several fruitless efforts to bring the boy under the influence of
                    teaching was being made at Boston when the civil war began. He promptly enlisted
                    in a Massachusetts regiment and served throughout the conflict. He was utterly
                    without the sense of fear; his spirit was that of the old chivalry that dared to
                    do for the sake of doing, without question. He was wounded several times. At
                    Fair Oaks he received an injury in the throat while riding a charge, and this,
                    after a score of years, caused his death. The war impressed itself strongly upon
                    the boy, and its influence upon his unformed character was not the best. It is
                    easy now to look back and see how much higher and broader his career would have
                    been had he not been plunged into the varying life of the soldier. The war was a
                    school that taught no elementary branches; it was, to him, a university that
                    unfolded far too rapidly the tremendous passions of life. The end of hostilities
                    found the young man out of a congenial employment, and poorly equipped for the
                    battles of peace. When a discharge was given him  he
                    was at Indianapolis engaged in some clerical work connected with the dissolution
                    of the army. By so slight a chance as this he became a resident of the city, and
                    lived there the remainder of his life, with only one protracted absence. He was
                    employed on various Indianapolis newspapers at different times and in different
                    capacities; chiefly in the line of executive work. He was not adapted by
                    temperament or by education to the writing of serious prose; he had no taste for
                    editorial writing.
                In 1872 he went to St. Louis with several Indianapolis gentlemen who had
                    purchased the Democrat. Here he made some reputation by the writing of condensed
                    paragraphs for the editorial page. It was at this time, perhaps, that he did his
                    best work as a journalist. This employment did not last long, however, and on
                    returning to Indianapolis, Mr. House resumed his work for newspapers. On January
                    27, 1873, Mr. House was married to Miss Mary Arnold Sharpe, daughter of John S.
                    Sharpe, at Indianapolis. For some years he was employed in the United States
                    pension agency. He served six terms (from 1881 to 1887) as adjutant-general of
                    the  G. A. R. of Indiana. That organization was dear
                    to him; its democracy and good fellowship appealed to him strongly, and he was
                    always proud of his identification with it.
                Mr. House's poems are an interesting study. He wrote easily; indeed, so
                    little effort was required that he was prone to accept as final defective work
                    which he might have made perfect by the exercise of a little more care. The
                    peaceful Whittier he loved better than any other poet; from the serene Quaker he
                    derived many ideas of form. Whittier was a model, but not to the sacrifice of
                    his own individuality. He was too strong a character, by far, to follow
                    servilely in the path of another. Yet, in his poems of nature, it is possible to
                    see the influence of the master upon his pupil. Mr. House's war poems,
                    and his poems to and of the veterans, are among his best. They are vigorous in
                    execution and bold in their originality.
                His "Present Arms!" is a stirring song of the nation's
                    birthday. Mr. House was in demand as a reader of original poems at reunions of
                    veterans and on like occasions. At the dedication of the Knights-  town Home for Soldiers' Orphans he recited to
                    the children a poem of singular beauty. He wrote nothing better than this
                    quatrain from that poem:
                
                    No dole of charity ye eat
                    But bread from grain that shall not fail
                    Out beaten when war's sounding flail
                    Threshed out men's souls like grains of wheat.
                
                His poetry of patriotism certainly deserves a place in our Indiana literature,
                    and in the literature that has grown out of the civil war. Its vigor, its
                    sincerity, its imagination, are notable.
                The love poems which Mr. House wrote from time to time are unequal, but a number
                    of them are exquisite in their tenderness. "Alter Ego" and
                    "Leander to Hero" are contributions to the world of amatory
                    verse.
                It is not maintained that Mr. House was a genius, nor that he was a profound
                    scholar. He was neither the one nor the other. But his gifts of composition were
                    far above the ordinary. He knew, by a kind of intuition, the value of any
                    certain poetic idea that came to him; he put the proper ap-  praisement on his material and employed it to the best
                    advantage. It will be observed that there was no great variety of measure and no
                    distinguishing versatility in the verse forms which he employed. He wrote blank
                    verse occasionally, and often effectively. In the poems presented in this volume
                    no changes have been made except in the correction of obvious errors. It was a
                    fault of Mr. House's literary workmanship that he sometimes repeated phrases,
                    consciously or unconsciously, but his offenses were few.
                Mr. House was something of an Oriental in his tastes. He was fond of perfumes,
                    and of them, as of jewels, he knew a great deal. He was familiar with art and
                    knew well the points of paintings, sculpture and architecture.
                There are those of us to whom Thyrsis was particularly dear. He was a charming
                    companion, and conversed on a great diversity of topics. He had a fund of rare
                    good humor. His point of view was frequently cynical, but he was not always to
                    be taken at his own word. There was no via media in  . his friendships; he was a good laver and a good hater.
                    His fiends will recall often the man, 'in his habit as he
                    lived.' He was a picturesque and striking figure on the street of the
                    city. For those who knew him it will be possible always to bring him back -- the
                    large, strong frame; the cloak, the broad hat, the swinging gait. lie was quite
                    nearsighted and at his desk bent close to his book or paper. Recalling so slight
                    a thing as this attitude sends a pain to the heart and makes us see again the
                    high forehead, the sad gray eyes.
                Bits of Songs that he loved are borne in on this tide of memory. The early haze
                    of autumn hangs along the horizon as these words are penned, and the sympathetic
                    voice of our Thyrsis- "we still had Thyrsis then!' -repeats
                    the words he loved so well":
                
                    Tears, idle tears I know not what they mean;
                    Tears from the depth of some divine despair
                    Rise in the heart and gather to the eyes
                    In lookinig on the happy autumn fields
                    And thinking of fthe days that are no more.
                
                
                Here, in these few pages, is outined the life of a man. And here is the sheaf pf
                    songs that he gathered in various fields, in shadow and in sunlight.
            
        
        
            
            
                Poems of Ben. D. House: With Biographical Sketch
                
                    "PRESENT ARMS!" [AN INDEPENDENCE
                        ECHO.]
                    
                        Oh, fathers who fired war's torch at Concord!
                        Oh, heroes who fought at Bunker Hill!
                        Ye are not dead in your place of resting
                        But in your deeds ye are living still.
                    
                    
                        As light of the nation's natal morning
                        Bars eastern skies with its opal hue,
                        Break your bonds of sleep, oh nation's fathers,
                        And form in line for a grand review.
                    
                    
                        Come forth, oh, sons, from your grounds of camping;
                        Ye are sleeping deep, but living still,
                        Beneath your tents on the field of Shiloh,
                        Or in bivouac at Malvern Hill.
                    
                    
                        Take arms again, oh, ye tired sleepers;
                        Form lines in your warlike gear arrayed;
                        March down through the years to later comers,
                        To pass in review in a peace parade.
                    
                    
                    
                        From out the shade of thy hiding scabbard
                        Leap forth, oh, sword, with a bloodless blade;
                        Let thy flashing point go shining skyward,
                        And fall in saluting accolade.
                    
                    
                        Thrill your every thread, oh, star-flecked banner,
                        From outer fringe to your eagled staff;
                        Pour forth from your iron lips, oh cannon,
                        The rose-red breath of a mighty laugh.
                    
                    
                        Oh, brazen throats of loud-braying bugles,
                        Send forth your notes of the gladdest key,
                        Till the golden air is thrilled with music,
                        And stirred to life by your peace-born glee.
                    
                    
                        Cleave the air, oh, fifes, with shriller shrieking
                        Than warlike wail at the nation's birth,
                        Beat drums to the time of joyful marches,
                        That ha! ha! ha! with a mellow mirth.
                    
                    
                        Oh, bells that swing in lofty steeples,
                        By the sun-kissed sign of peace high crowned,
                        Spill out, as ye sway, your molten music,
                        Till ye belt the land with a zone of sound
                    
                    
                    
                        Fall, flags! for to-day the white peace angel,
                        Full plumed, stands waiting your drooping signs;
                        Beat, hearts, with the roll of high saluting,
                        Flash, arms, presented along the lines!
                    
                    
                        Reach out your hands, oh, men and brothers,
                        Let your clasping fingers intertwine,
                        Till your lives are linked in bonds of union,
                        From wave-washed gulf to the northern line.
                    
                    
                        Roar guns again with a peace evangel!
                        Blend gray of smoke with blue of sky,
                        As the blue and gray were wrought and blended,
                        When war's red horror had passed us by.
                    
                    
                        Peal forth again your notes, oh, bugles!
                        With sounds of peace like rythmic rune,
                        Salute with your songs the nation's morning
                        That never shall know an afternoon.
                    
                
                
                
                    LEANDER TO HERO.
                    
                        O Hero mine, hold out your arms to me!
                        But let your white hand gleam from out the tower.
                        And though black clouds o'er all the sky should
                            lower,
                        And wildly foam the rudely wind-lashed sea,
                        And Hellespont were hell, I would cross o'er to thee!
                    
                    
                        I see thee through the dark of every night,
                        Across all space that separates us twain,
                        And at the leash of fate I strongly strain
                        To win my way into the golden light
                        Of loving eyes, than any signal lamp more bright.
                    
                    
                        Ah! whiter than the winter-mocking shower.
                        Of foam from storm-scourged waves, I see the gleam
                        Of thy white robes across the night-dark stream
                        Of fate, that bars me with its hateful power
                        From where thy signal gleams from out our dear watch-tower.
                    
                    
                    
                        And all uncinctured they about thee fall
                        Like nuptial night-robes donned by some fair bride,
                        Beneath whose folds a wildly pulsing tide
                        Of love tells how she gladly gives her all
                        Of life and self to him who holds her heart in thrall.
                    
                    
                        Ah! rosier than the gleam of love-lit lamp,
                        And snowier than thy garment's purest white,
                        Thy beauty is to my enraptured sight;
                        And though between us loud the waves may ramp
                        I win my way toward thee, through the dark and damp.
                    
                    
                        In love's sun-smitten archipelago
                        Our verdure-shaded tower stands islanded;
                        And though through rudest waves my way is led,
                        Despite all lashing winds that rise and blow,
                        My weary limbs the stairway's landing yet shall know.
                    
                    
                    
                        Ah! from the black night's storm that wildly raves,
                        At last my life in love's own haven lies,
                        Where rudest winds are never more than sighs,
                        Where passion's pulsings but the warm shore laves,
                        And foam-whiite, billowing bosoms are the rudest waves.
                    
                
                
                    WERE IT BUT TRUE.
                    
                        Ah, were the legend of Pygmralion true,
                        I think my hand would clench the chisel so
                        That all my soul would to my fingers flow,
                        Till they would bring my inmost thoughts to view,
                        As I should from the shapeless marble hew
                        A form that, like your own, would surely grow,
                        So true, that 'neath my carving hand would show
                        My soul's ideal-the counterpart of you.
                    
                    
                        And not as stone would there unbreathing lie
                        A soulless shape wrought by the sculptor's
                            knife;
                        For I should voice my soul with such a cry
                        That it must hear and rise, my breathing wife,
                        Breaking its sleep with love's awaking sigh,
                        When I had loved it into pulsing life.
                    
                
                
                
                    ALTER EGO.
                    
                        If my freed soul were of its sins forgiven,
                        And Azrael, at its side, escorting flew,
                        To guide it straightway to the realm of heaven,
                        I should compel his flight with it to you.
                    
                    
                        And pausing there, refuse his further leading,
                        And he from thence alone his flight should wend,
                        For I would prove to him, through love's strong pleading,
                        That I had reached my journey's utmost end.
                    
                    
                        And ling'ring there, perhaps without your knowing,
                        Until your eyes should close in life's eclipse,
                        My kiss, when yours to find my soul was going,
                        Should meet it at the portal of your lips.
                    
                
                
                
                    GRANT.
                    "LET US HAVE PEACE."
                    
                        Oh, mighty captain! Thou whose name will go
                        Adown the ages while the years shall run,
                        And blazoned be the deeds that thou hast done
                        While fronting iron-nerved thy country's foe,
                        Sun-bright with ever-growing golden glow,-
                        O savior! who from war's red furnace won,
                        Unscorched, the flag bequeathed by Washington,
                        Thou hast a nation's love that passeth show.
                    
                    
                        O, folded hands, that held war's bridle reins!
                        O, tired heart! thou hast at last release
                        From all earth's fret and sense-enslaving pains.
                        Let every sound of mournful wailing cease
                        For thy white tent is pitched on restful plains,
                        Where thou hast found at length the longed for peace.
                    
                    
                    APPOMATOX.
                    
                        To peace-white ashes sunk war's lurid flame,
                        The drums had ceased to growl, and died away
                        The bark of guns, where fronting armies lay,
                        And for the day the dogs of war were tame
                        And resting on the field of blood-bought fame,
                        For conquered peace o'er horrid war held sway
                        On her won field, a score of years to-day,
                        Where to her champion forth a white flag came.
                    
                    
                        O, nation's chief! thine eyes have seen again
                        A whiter flag come forth to summon thee
                        Than that pale scarf which gleamed above war's stain,
                        To parley o'er the end of its red reign-
                        The truce of God that sets from battle free
                        Thy dauntless soul, and thy worn life from pain.
                    
                
                
                
                    NO CHANGE.
                    
                        The morning-glory's purple has not paled,
                        O'er matching all the tints of Tyrian dyes;
                        As fair the days as when with hope I hailed
                        The light of morning skies.
                    
                    
                        There is no change since first my heart was stirred
                        By sight of field, or stream, or flower, or vine;
                        As sweetly carols now the singing bird-
                        The change is only mine.
                    
                    
                        What seems to blend into a blighting rust
                        Where once mine eyes saw only colors bright,
                        Is but the blinding of life's highway dust
                        That soon will close them quite.
                    
                    
                        And, knowing this, with strengthened hand I crush
                        Back to their tombs the ghosts that upward start,
                        Robed with regret, and sweeping, cleanly brush
                        All cobwebs from my heart.
                    
                    
                    
                        Uncurtain all my soul from clouding shade,
                        Till I again all living joys can reap
                        With harvest grasp as wide as when I prayed
                        " I lay me down to sleep."
                    
                
                
                    I AM.
                    
                        O soughing pines, your somber power is gone;
                        Your olden sighs, as though the world must weep,
                        Sound to me now as but the herald yawn
                        Of fast departing sleep.
                    
                    
                        For dreaming long, awake I hold the key
                        That frees my soul from all life's chafing
                            curbs,
                        And I can sweetness win, as does the bee
                        Honey from bitter herbs.
                    
                    
                        I care not that I am a slave to toil,
                        That I must sweat the barest crust to win;
                        I find life's wine and hope's anointing oil
                        Where I have entered in.
                    
                    
                    
                        For I at last have won the bitter strife,
                        Till I can loose the gyves of toil at will,
                        And on hope's altar, of the wine of life
                        A rich libation spill.
                    
                    
                        I do not know the source from which I start,
                        I do not know the mission of my soul;
                        But this I know, I am a needful part
                        Of a perfected whole.
                    
                    
                        On the one fact, I am, I base my trust,
                        And being, I am neither poor nor mean-
                        An atom lost within a world of dust-
                        Else I had never been.
                    
                    
                        I hold this thought most grand and honey sweet:
                        No power that is, nor e'en earth's hiding
                            grave,
                        Of having been, and being, one can cheat,
                        Though he be toil's dull slave.
                    
                
                
                
                    FROM THE SOUTH.
                    
                        O wind, that bloweth with such sharp insistence
                        From summer's birth-place in the sun-steeped
                            South,
                        Are roses blooming in the mist of distance,
                        Or have you kissed her mouth?
                    
                    
                        You must have stirred her clinging robes in passing,
                        Or breathed warm kisses on her bronzen hair,
                        And though black clouds before your breath are massing
                        The night for me is fair.
                    
                    
                        Pant on in sighing, gushing, languorous fashion
                        From where the blue of distance hides her, blown,
                        And kiss my lips and south-set face with passion
                        As fierce as is my own.
                    
                    
                        For sweeter far than Cashmere's vales of blooming
                        Is your wild breath which billowing storm-clouds stir-
                        Nor can they shade my sky with hue of glooming
                        Because you come from her.
                    
                
                
                
                    AT THE STATION.
                    
                        He stood alone amid a surging throng,
                        Yet glanced with eager gaze at every one
                        Wrought in the thread of life that past him spun,
                        As for a time his pulse beat full and strong;
                        At length he flinched as though beneath the thong
                        Of cruel doubt, and, like a clouded sun,
                        His eyes lost light, and ashy paleness won
                        Upon the face health-flushed when hope was strong.
                    
                    
                        Yet, while his heart to whispered throbs was hushed,
                        He saw her come, just as he turned to go,
                        And life's red tide through every channel rushed;
                        While from his eyes shone out a joyous glow,
                        And the sick pallor of his cheek was flushed,
                        As when red sunset lights the winter's snow.
                    
                
                
                
                    "MAQUAM."
                    
                        Like some lost barque, deep water-logged at sea,
                        A crow drifts down before the slanting rain;
                        The lake's pulse, beating slow, but ceaselessly,
                        Throbs on the shore, like some tired heart in pain.
                    
                    
                        Two ride within the shade of dark-plumed pines
                        That stand like knights at solemn obsequies
                        When some still heart goes slowly down the lines
                        That lead to quays which border unknown seas.
                    
                    
                        Oh, throb of waves, and caw of struggling crow!
                        Oh, autumn colors varnished by the rain!
                        What thoughts were theirs but one can surely know
                        Who reads the heart's barometer of pain.
                    
                
                
                
                    LOVE'S TRIUMPH.
                    
                        Apart, their lives had been a savage trial;
                        They met, and faded all the clouds of tears;
                        The shadow backward moved upon life's dial
                        And closed the gap of many bitter years.
                    
                    
                        From out night's loom the sable shadows lengthened,
                        And gloomed the gold where late the sunlight fell;
                        Though love's sweet consolation soothed and strengthened,
                        Heart clasped to heart they said again, farewell.
                    
                    
                        He crossed alone the threshold where they parted
                        And in the dark held wide his arms apart,
                        And called aloud so yearningly that started
                        Full into life the pictures in his heart.
                    
                    
                        And fragrant, fruity odors floated round him,
                        Like some magician's picture-weaving mist,
                        And with the subtle chains of fancy bound him-
                        Her leading shackles on his willing wrist.
                    
                    
                    
                        He felt the clasp of arms and plaited fingers,
                        The collar of love's knighthood, on his neck,
                        And bowed his head as one who, willing, lingers,
                        His going steps held by love's chain in check.
                    
                    
                        He heard the hushed half-sibilance of kisses
                        Stir all the air as with a breeze of sighs,
                        As though the past eternity's abysses
                        Echoed from out their depths love's dear
                            replies.
                    
                    
                        The low-hushed whisper of the surf of passion,
                        From whiter throbbing billows than the waves,
                        Foam-plumed, he heard in cadenced pulsings dash on
                        Love's shore and die to silence in its caves.
                    
                    
                        No note in all love's gentle gamut missing,
                        A sweep of garments stirred the perfumed air,
                        He heard the sound of feet and carpet kissing
                        And felt love's benediction on his hair.
                    
                    
                        He looked in eyes whose depths he could not measure,
                        Blue-gray as morning over ocean ways,
                        He walked, love-shod,where but to live was pleasure,
                        Ere lost within life's labyrinthine maze.
                    
                    
                    
                        A city clock jarred harshly on his hearing,
                        The waking dreamer from his dreams awoke,
                        And saw again the dreaded shadows nearing
                        That might his life with utter blackness cloak.
                    
                    
                        His clenched hand clove the dark in fierce defiance,
                        " Oh, master fate! come you with shade or shine,
                        While I on memory's power can place reliance
                        This day, despite your utmost hate, is mine."
                    
                
                
                    A CHRISTMAS PRAYER.
                    
                        Oh, Thou, who on the heights of Calvary,
                        Breathed out Thy life, in that one anguished cry:
                        "Eli, Eli, lama sabacthani!!"
                        I ask Thee with my hands upheld on high
                        And holding them in pleading up to Thee:
                        Hast Thou forgotten and forsaken me?
                        My arms are like the bar that made Thy cross,
                        I know my gain can be but through Thy loss,
                        But in the blood that ran from Thy pierced hands
                        I see the sunrise gleam in garden lands;
                        And so my pleading arms are held to Thee-
                        My God! my God! has Thou forsaken me?
                    
                
                
                
                    WINTER ETCHINGS.
                    
                        Loud sounds the song that Boreas sings,
                        No need is there to listen,
                        Though voiced within the Arctic rings
                        Where icebergs gleam and glisten.
                    
                    
                        Sinking and soaring falls the snow,
                        Of his cold breath begotten,
                        And whites the air as when winds blow
                        O'er fields of ripened cotton.
                    
                    
                        When Phoebus, panoplied in sheen,
                        Night's curtain black has rended,
                        His golden chariot is seen
                        By sky-born dogs attended.
                    
                    
                        Within the barn door chanticleer,
                        With one foot raised, is waiting,
                        With side-wise head and wondering peer,
                        To go or stay debating.
                    
                    
                    
                        The cattle from frost-frescoed sheds,
                        Loosed from the stanchion's tether,
                        File slowly out with shaking heads,
                        A protest 'gainst the weather.
                    
                    
                        The horses toiling at the dray,
                        With breath from nostrils steaming,
                        The frost new color gives, till they
                        With whitened coats are gleaming.
                    
                    
                        The teamster down from off his seat
                        Beside his team is striding,
                        And with emphatic stamp of foot
                        Stirs blood to quickened gliding.
                    
                    
                        The vandal sparrows hop about,
                        With plumage raised and ruffled,-
                        As though to keep the keen cold out
                        With feathers they were muffled.
                    
                    
                        See where the frost, with silver sheen,
                        Upon the window traces
                        Patterns more rare than e'er was seen
                        In priceless filmy laces!
                    
                    
                    
                        The fences fringed in autumn's glow
                        By golden rod and aster,
                        In blackened lines now check the snow,
                        Where winter reigns as master.
                    
                    
                        The summer whispering of the trees
                        Is changed to rudest wailing;
                        They answer to the winter's breeze
                        With voice of wildest wailing.
                    
                    
                        The smoke from noisy traffic's shops,
                        And where home fires are blazing,
                        Is seen above the chimney tops
                        Like giant plumes upraising.
                    
                    
                        But why need I these bleak winds dread
                        While thoughts are on me crowding,
                        Which tell that summer is not dead
                        Despite the winter's shrouding?
                    
                
                
                
                    THE HIDDEN HAND.
                    
                        The day was dark, and all the world was black,
                        The summer flowers a rotting, hateful sight,
                        Night blotted out the winter's blighting track-
                        The morning broke and all the world was white.
                    
                    
                        His hopes were low, and life's horizon small
                        He could not see beyond, and cursed aloud;
                        But, looking up, he saw a whiteness fall
                        And robe his life, transmitted from its cloud.
                    
                
                
                
                    IT WILL BE WELL.
                    
                        No more can I control the way I go
                        Than any thistle-seed borne by the wind,
                        But I at last a resting place shall find,
                        As sure as that winged germ, that to and fro
                        Drifts on, whichever way the winds may blow,-
                        Whose final fate the power of death may bind:
                        Or yet, through work of occult law more kind,
                        Into a life renewed may start and grow.
                    
                    
                        If falling like that seed, I, tempest-tost,
                        Should fail and die, or from the husk of me
                        Should burst another life, beyond all frost
                        And blighting heat, from which this is not free-
                        If I a new life gain, or this be lost,
                        It will be well whate'er the law decree.
                    
                
                
                
                    COVENTRY BRIDGE.
                    
                        Lake breezes cooled the fervid heat,
                        And all the air was summer sweet,
                        As striding up the village street
                        He went the way love winged his feet,
                        Towards the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                        The meadow grass, like ocean's swell,
                        In emerald billows rose and fell;
                        And all the song birds sang to tell
                        His happy heart, that all was well
                        About the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                        By balmy air his brow was met,
                        And all life's darkness paid its debt
                        Where rushes into silver fret
                        The water, as his feet were set
                        Upon the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                    
                        The watch-tower's walls of snowy white
                        Gleamed through the trees upon his sight,
                        And his glad heart with hope was light-
                        His life with golden sheen bedight
                        Upon the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                        On summer air as warm as wine,
                        Above the tree tops' hiding line
                        He saw a white scarf gleam and shine
                        As love shook out her welcome sign
                        Towards the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                        Where mirror-like the sky was glassed,
                        With certain flight and arrow-fast
                        The dragon flies their shadows cast
                        Upon the limpid stream, that passed
                        Beneath the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                        He heard the ripple of the stream,
                        And saw the sunlit waters gleam,
                        Threading the meadows like a seam,
                        Flowing as softly as a dream
                        Beneath the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                    
                        The fleur de lis with mocking hue
                        Gave back the sky its turquois blue;
                        Sun-freckled tiger-lilies grew
                        Where arching elms their shadows threw
                        Upon the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                        The land with summer's gold was drest
                        And redder than the sun-dyed west
                        He saw the oriole's golden vest
                        Gleam from its high o'erhanging nest
                        Above the Bridge of Coventry.
                    
                    
                        Ah, memory! in your hidden store
                        May lilies bloom forevermore;
                        And rushes fringe the happy shore
                        Where sunlit limpid waters pour
                        Beneath the Bridge of Coventry!
                    
                
                
                
                     HOME LIFE.
                    
                        The soul that knows the bliss of true home-life,
                        Where his tired heart finds perfect peace and rest
                        About a hearth by some earth-angel blest,-
                        Whose wings are but the arms of his true wife,
                        Their holding barring out all hateful strife,
                        Knows in such life of earthly joys the best;
                        For he within their circling cincture prest
                        Feels his full pulse with joyous rapture rife.
                    
                    
                        He drinks the wine of life unto its lees;
                        And though cold winds the black bare boughs may fret
                        With icy breath, that all the flowers shall freeze,
                        When her loved face against the pane is set
                        To watch his coming, at the window sees
                        A passion flower, heart's-ease and mignonette.
                    
                
                
                
                    GOD'S GIFT.
                    
                        From off my life are all the shadows lifted,
                        And o'er its sky the spanning bow is bent,
                        While erst the clouds in billowing masses drifted
                        And gloomed the way I went.
                    
                    
                        My purblind eyes saw not the golden glory
                        That from the sky on summer landscapes fell;
                        And blooming flowers told to my heart no story
                        Save rue and asphodel.
                    
                    
                        No gladness for the life that I was living
                        Found voice in words formed by my frosty lips;
                        I saw no good of the All Giver's giving
                        Save only, death's eclipse.
                    
                    
                        Yet, while' I groped where doubt and darkness lingers,
                        I saw a gleaming hand stretched through the night,
                        And felt the welcome warmth of clasping fingers
                        That led me into light.
                    
                    
                    
                        And my new life this guiding hand is leading
                        Where fronded palms the summer breezes fret;
                        And my worn feet, once tired, bruised, and bleeding,
                        In garden aisles are set.
                    
                    
                        I am not worthy, O All-Guiding Father-
                        Who was so blind of sight and trust in Thee,
                        That round about my erring life should gather
                        The joys Thou givest me.
                    
                    
                        But Thy kind hand hath lifted every sadness
                        That held me in a circling cincture bound;
                        And through thy gift I wear a golden gladness
                        By which my life is crowned.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE WINE OF SUMMER.
                    
                        The sun toward the south has rolled,
                        The shades of autumn follow,
                        The butternut, like burnished gold,
                        Shines in the shaded hollow.
                    
                    
                        The stately pines, the forest's pride,
                        Stand sentry-like in manner;
                        The maple on the mountain side
                        Hangs out its scarlet banner.
                    
                    
                        Upon the walls the ivy shows
                        A net of crimson tangles,
                        Along the road the fireweed glows
                        Within the fence's angles.
                    
                    
                        The sumach with its flaming leaves
                        A blazing bush is burning,
                        The plowman, where late stood the sheaves,
                        The mellow mold is turning.
                    
                    
                    
                        The hawk, that in the early spring
                        Swooped from the sky's blue chamber,
                        Now hangs aloft on pulseless wing,
                        A speck within the amber.
                    
                    
                        With lazy wing his way on high
                        A cawing crow is flapping,-
                        A silhouette against the sky
                        In somber color mapping.
                    
                    
                        The quail's sweet call is faintly heard
                        From out the browning stubble,
                        A breeze the thistledown has stirred-
                        The snowflake's ghostly double.
                    
                    
                        The rabbits, in their hodden-gray,
                        Life to the landscape lending,
                        Like moving shadows seem to play,
                        With sward of autumn blending.
                    
                    
                        Where gleams the ambient autumn light
                        Athwart the opening reaches,
                        The purple pigeon's flashing flight
                        Is seen among the beeches.
                    
                    
                    
                        Within the deeper shade is heard
                        The beechnuts' rain-like patter,
                        The song of some belated bird,
                        The squirrel's laughing chatter.
                    
                    
                        Between the leaves the lambent light
                        Its way to earth is threading,
                        Where forest shadows hint of night,
                        A golden patchwork spreading.
                    
                    
                        I see through shim'ring autumn haze
                        O'er all a mellow gleaming,
                        And find in Indian-summer days
                        A time for daylight dreaming.
                    
                    
                        Too indolent to even think-
                        All thoughts unwelcome comers,
                        As in a waking dream I drink
                        The wine of ripened summers.
                    
                
                
                
                    BABY HELEN.
                    
                        Hast thou still, O throbless heart,
                        In this life of mine a part?
                        Canst thou backward look o'er ways
                        Thou hast gone, unto the days
                        When I told my love to you
                        And thou saidst " Me know you do?"
                        Ah, my heart is sad and sore
                        Where is graven "never more!"
                        When the light and darkness meet,
                        Then the patter of thy feet
                        Often in the growing gloom
                        Echoes through the lonely room,
                        And mine eyes are dim and wet
                        With the dew of love's regret;
                        Yet again I see thine eyes,
                        Blue as skies of paradise,
                        And with evening breezes bland
                        Comes the touch of thy soft hand
                        
                        And I hear thy dear lips speak-
                        See thee for bright blossoms seek;
                        Clover bloom or lilac spray,
                        Every flower was thy " bouquet."
                        When thou brought'st such childish prize,
                        Then I saw them with thine eyes;
                        Aught that thy dear hand might glean
                        Seemed to me or poor or mean,
                        And thy childish fancy mine,
                        Saw but "lamps" in firefly's shine;
                        When the rain the earth would seek,
                        Saw with thee the heavens "leak."
                        Thou the past brought back to me;
                        I, a child again through thee.
                    
                    
                        Ah, my love has all these years,
                        Through the telescope of tears,
                        Sought thee ever in its flight
                        Through the spaces infinite;
                        Past the sunset's cloudy bars,
                        Climbing up the stair of stars;
                        Groping through doubt's clouded land
                        For the guidance of thy hand.
                        
                        But thy finding I have missed
                        In the ether's amethyst.
                        Though unseen to mortal eye,
                        Love asserts that thou art nigh.
                        Ah, thou cold philosophy!
                        Vain thy logic is to me;
                        She I love is with me there
                        Though I reach and clasp but air,
                        And through loving infinite
                        I shall yet be granted sight;
                        Its sad search will not be vain;
                        Love will have its own again;
                        Death can not its purpose balk
                        Though a darkened path I walk,
                        For some occult process yet
                        Side by side our feet shall set,
                        And thy childish hand's caress
                        With love's benediction bless.
                        I, again, shall hold thee fast,
                        Blotting out the bitter past,
                        Tell again my love to you,
                        Thou reply, " Me know you do."
                    
                
                
                
                    SUGARING.
                    
                        The spring light fell upon the land
                        With rays of topaz tinting,
                        And every sun-kissed willow land
                        Gave back a golden glinting.
                    
                    
                        A bluebird flew with flashing wing,
                        The first sweet minstrel comer,
                        With breast that mocked the sky of spring
                        Tinted with flush of summer.
                    
                    
                        A merry group, to whom seemed bright
                        All life, with naught of shadows,
                        Walked happy through the limpid light
                        Across the low-lying meadows.
                    
                    
                        But one knew there a new life's birth,
                        As feel the trees uprising
                        The soul of growth from out the earth,
                        Beneath the sun's baptizing.
                    
                    
                    
                        And while he went with youth's light feet
                        To test the maple's savor,
                        He knew his heart a hive of sweet
                        Beyond Hymettus' flavor.
                    
                    
                        Ah, yet to-day, how memory tells,
                        When spring-time days are sunny,
                        Of sweets within the maple's cells,
                        Surpassing Hybla's honey
                    
                    
                        To him who now with silvered hair
                        Sees naught of mythic fable
                        In supping of the gods of air
                        About a golden table.
                    
                    
                        For on his life a new light streamed,
                        And stirred love's occult leaven
                        Until a sunlit farm-house gleamed
                        Like jasper walls of heaven.
                    
                    
                        And never at Olympian fete
                        Was served a banquet rarer,
                        For he the god's ambrosia ate
                        Where Hebe was cup-bearer.
                    
                
                
                
                    A VISION OF THE STYX-A DREAM.
                    
                        From filaments of undirected thought,
                        That cobweb all the halls of sleep with dreams,
                        I swept these threads into the glare of day:
                    
                    
                        Beside a figure robed in ashen gray,
                        And cowled so that his face I could not see,
                        I walked adown a rock-strewn, rugged path.
                        His hand held mine in firm but gentle clasp,
                        And, though his mien was that of majesty,
                        I felt no fear, but only such regret
                        As comes to us at parting of life's ways
                        When we have turned our backs on those we love.
                        I held not back, though well I seemed to know
                        I walked a way my feet should ne'er retrace.
                    
                    
                         We came unto a river's bank and paused,
                        Where lying moored I saw a splendid barge,
                        Such as no doge, who went to cast his ring
                        Into the Adriatic's depths, e'er used
                        
                        In consummation of the wedding rite
                        That capped him Venice's reigning head and lord.
                        Nor could that barge in which the lily maid
                        Of Astolat took passage, that her face
                        Might thence for aye be held in Lancelot's heart,
                        Compare with this I saw moored at the bank.
                        Upon its white and shining deck was spread
                        A couch whose draperies overflowed its sides
                        In rippling folds and to the water fell
                        And trailed like wake of phosphorescent glow.
                        With courteous gesture of command my guide
                        Waved me to mount the barge's polished deck.
                        No obolus or other ferry fee
                        He asked, but quick unmoored and stepped aboard.
                        Then, as impeding garments off are cast
                        By those who have a work of strength to do,
                        His cowl and frock of ashen gray fell off,
                        And Charon stood revealed the barge's lord.
                        But with this knowledge came no thought of dread.
                        His not the stony face of some black sphynx,
                        To fright the soul with eyes of gorgon glare
                        
                        But every line showed kind and settled calm,
                        And all about the mouth were prophecies
                        That yet might ripen into sofest smiles.
                        Too kingly he to crouch at laboring oars,
                        He took from off the deck a grander staff
                        Than proudest pontiff of the earth e'er bore,
                        Full trapped for ceremonies of the church,
                        And with grand strength propelled the barge from land.
                        The ripples parted 'round the gliding prow,
                        And lying couched I looked upon the stream,
                        Nor saw a murky, dank and sluggish flow,
                        Scum-coated from the ooze of swampy fens,
                        But limpid waters, smitten with the light
                        Of almost level beams of setting sun.
                    
                    
                        Then came a thought of something like regret
                        That I might never see reversed the course
                        The barge now held from off the fading shore.
                        And on this thread of thought was strung the wish
                        That to the friends I late had parted from
                        I might a message bear, or send, to tell
                        
                        How naught but slander had made foul this stream,
                        And carved a black and stony face on him,
                        The kindest-visaged vassal of the Lord
                        That ever pitied souls in search of rest.
                    
                    
                         As further still we drew off from the land,
                        About us seemed to flit familiar forms
                        That I had known as friends in other days.
                        Far inland from the mystic river's marge
                        On which I sailed, I knew not to what port,
                        They hovered, incorporeal as the film
                        We see arise in heated summer days
                        From out the meadows and from pasture hills,
                        Yet so distinct that every form I knew,
                        And saw the shining welcome of their eyes.
                        And lilac odors blent with violet
                        Came stealing o'er the river's shining calm,-
                        As though the springs that I had known to live
                        And into tanned and lusty summers grow
                        Were waking one by one, and wafting me
                        The welcome of their flower-laden breath,
                        To some fair land where all the springs are born,
                        And those who die on earth again find life.
                        
                        I heard low music, like the songs of birds,
                        And childhood's happy voices sweetly blent;
                        But through this melody there ran a thread
                        Of song, liked to a mother's lullaby-
                        Elusive as the sounds we hear in dreams,
                        And are not sure we ever heard before,-
                        Like the reverberation of some chord
                        That long has lain untouched within our hearts.
                         * * * And so I lay, lapped in a trustful calm,
                        My half-closed eyes fixed on a nearing shore;
                        But as I thought the barge's bottom shoaled
                        The city's roar and rumble filled my ears.
                    
                
                
                
                    MORTON. [The Monument, Circle Park,
                            Indianapolis.]
                    
                        O statue standing in thy bronzen rest,
                        A sentinel, with southward-looking face;
                        As solid as thy granite standing place
                        Stood thou in life when traitors round thee pressed,
                        And to their beating back thy might addressed
                        With force more sure than that of sweeping mace
                        Swung on the battle-field by knightly race:
                        Look south for aye, O hero of the West!
                    
                    
                        Would not thy trumpet tones of old be heard
                        Should war's red fire of fierce consuming heat
                        But flush thy lips with light, and they be stirred
                        To speaking life as when thy bold heart beat,
                        And as a bugle-peal thine every word
                        And Memnon's miracle thy mouth repeat?
                    
                
                
                
                    DEDICATION OF THE SOLDIERS' ORPHANS'
                        HOME.
                    
                        O heirs of men of kingly souls
                        Who faced war's hell of crimson flame,
                        And if from out it scathed they came,
                        Came crowned with battle aureoles,-
                    
                    
                        Who sprang to arms and freely went
                        In answer to their country's call,
                        Lest freedom's ruined temple fall
                        In chaos of dismemberment-
                    
                    
                        Ah, nobler is the blood of thine
                        Which charged your veins from patriot springs
                        Than ever fed the lives of kings,
                        Who ruled by lie of "right divine"!
                    
                    
                    
                        A richer light before me glints
                        From off long lines of burnished steel,
                        Where serried columns march and wheel,
                        Than any from the coin of mints!
                    
                    
                         I hear again the war-drums play-
                        The sobs of grief which end in prayer-
                        The sharp command through bugles' blare-
                        When your dead fathers marched away.
                    
                    
                        O orphaned ones, ye need not shun
                        The purse-proud look with wealth elate,
                        Your fathers' valor saved the state,
                        And ye are heirs of what they won.
                    
                    
                         Ye sit beside no alms-house fires.
                        Like the Promethean-stolen flame
                        The lightning spark unto you came
                        From battle, brought by your dead sires.
                    
                    
                         And when your childhood's days are spent,
                        And ye in after years beside
                        This building stand, look up with pride,-
                        It is your father's monument!
                    
                    
                    
                        No dole of charity ye eat,
                        But bread from grain that shall not fail
                        Out-beaten when war's sounding flail
                        Threshed out men's souls like grains of wheat,-
                    
                    
                        When clouds surcharged with leaden rain
                        Enshrouded all the land in gloom,
                        And war's fire-breathing, fierce simoom
                        Winnowed the chaff from out the grain.
                    
                
                
                
                    A SUMMER DAY.
                    
                        With head on fingers interwrought
                        I lie with all the world at peace;
                        Each sun-gilt cloud a golden fleece
                        As rich as that which Jason sought.
                    
                    
                        Beneath the elm tree where I lie,
                        I see within the brook a trout
                        From 'neath a sunken log look out,
                        And scan the pool with wary eye.
                    
                    
                         With gleams of iridescent light,
                        The dragon-fly on gauzy wing
                        Above the stream hangs hovering,
                        Then, like an arrow, out of sight.
                    
                    
                        I catch a flash of flitting flame,
                        And, from her hammock hanging near,
                        A mother oriole can hear
                        As soft she sings her sweetheart's name.
                    
                    
                    
                        The soul of hearing tense and bare,
                        I hear a drowsy drone, and see
                        From bloom to bloom the bumble-bee
                        Lounge through the amber, wine-warm air.
                    
                    
                         The every note of bird-born sound
                        That clown of all the feathered tribe,
                        The cat-bird, mocks with merry jibe,
                        An echo of full-voiced rebound.
                    
                    
                         Beneath the sun's alchemic test,
                        Dull, dust like motes to life arise,
                        And golden-winged the butterflies
                        Float on the topaz air at rest.
                    
                    
                        Unto their work the mowers lean;
                        I hear the swish of swinging scythes,
                        Before whose sweep the tall grass writhes
                        And falls behind in waves of green;
                    
                    
                        And, giving voice to joyous verse,
                        Pitched to the whetstone's treble ring,
                        To me are borne the airs they sing
                        As though forgot the primal curse.
                    
                    
                    
                        The patient oxen bow and strain
                        To storm-browned barns from meadow fields,
                        With harvest which the summer yields
                        High piled upon the creaking wain.
                    
                    
                         Loosed from the school-house near the town,
                        A group of children laugh and jest,
                        The buttercup's chin-shadow test,
                        And blow the dandelion's down.
                    
                    
                        Adown the west the sun sinks low;
                        As grows the twilight comes a hush,
                        Save where with vesper-chant the thrush
                        Sings in the sunset's after-glow.
                    
                
                
                
                    REVEALMENT.
                    
                        One day when winter all the landscape drest,
                        Within a barn's half-twilight gloom I heard
                        A chirp of summer sound, as though some bird,
                        More than a mere fair-weather-staying guest,
                        Had dared the north wind's cold anear the nest
                        Where late its heart to happy song was stirred,
                        And past my gaze a frightened robin whirred,
                        The tint of summer sunsets on its breast.
                    
                    
                         And all the mows were wind-waved grass again,
                        The humming, honey-hunting bees were fed
                        Where bobolinks sing o'er their mad refrain
                        In fields where clover's sweet perfume is shed;
                        And glowed again the ripened, golden grain,
                        Through that one little spot of summer's red.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE HOMEWARD ROAD.
                    
                        Who thinks that he and those who think with him
                        Have entered on the highway of the Lord,
                        And every other soul is wide astray,
                        Has read his route upon an ancient scroll.
                        He understands at heart no more than one
                        So mildewed, torn and rotten with the years
                        That he must patch, e'er read, the gaping holes
                        Gnawed by the tooth of time from out the text,
                        With shreds of thought from his own shallow brain.
                    
                    
                        The soul that thinks of God's eternal rest
                        As some grand city walled against regret,
                        So it but enter into burgher's rights
                        From which a fellow-mortal shall be barred,
                        Not simply seeks a loving father's house,
                        But fain would find a pompous, kingly court,
                        Where lip-born praise shall win the courtier's ends;
                        To be in place above their fellows set,
                        Like those who loll through lives of languid ease,
                        
                        And for their earthly elevation pay
                        The fiefage of a sycophantic knee,
                        Nor care that all the path up which they crawled
                        Was paved with suffering, crushed and broken hearts.
                    
                    
                        Who thinks of ever-rising smoke of hell
                        As insense in the nostrils of the Lord
                        Has but a common scullion's mind and taste,
                        Whose thoughts are on a level with his life,
                        Deeming the odors from his foul domain
                        More rare and sweet than all the rich perfumes
                        Exhaled from flowers in salon vases set.
                    
                    
                        No ladder runged with moonbeam rays of light,
                        Too frail in earthward plant and skyward rest
                        To bear aught save a dream-born angel's tread,
                        Shall scale the rugged steeps the soul must win
                        That looks with upward gaze toward its rest;
                        Nor by the winding paths of Babel towers
                        Shall man rise o'er the wrongs and sins of earth
                        And their most sure, just punishment evade;
                        But by the carven stairway of his deeds, 
                        
                        Wrought on the rock-ribbed walls of circumstance,
                        To help his fellows climb to heights he seeks,
                        Whose peaks above the clouds of earthly wrong
                        O'erlook an ever-peaceful land of rest,
                        Therefrom approached, not by an edge-sharp bridge
                        Hung o'er a yawning hell like Al Sirat,
                        But by a roadway, plain and buttressed strong,
                        Built by a power which his imperfect deeds
                        Has wrought to perfect cubes, and piled in piers
                        That will not quiver to his toilsome tread
                        When he shall pass with his full pilgrim pack
                        And all his earthly burdens loaded down.
                    
                
                
                
                    MYOPIA.
                    
                        My eyes seek for the sunlight,
                        But seldom pierce beyond
                        The fog of doubt that rises
                        From Slough of dark Despond.
                    
                    
                        Yet o'er the veiling curtain
                        Sometimes the glimpses tell:
                        Beyond the present wallow
                        Rise Hills Delectable.
                    
                    
                         And through their sunlit gorges
                        I see the golden sheen
                        Of a city thatched with splendor-
                        But a river rolls between.
                    
                    
                         And then Apollyon questions,
                        With sneers, "Why have ye soared?
                        Ye stumble in the valleys,
                        And do not know the ford."
                    
                
                
                
                    HOPE.
                    
                         O day of gloom, we turn us to the Morrow,
                        Heir of thy line, and look for it to pay
                        In coin of joy thy borrowed debt of sorrow,
                        When it shall bear thy title of To-day.
                    
                
                
                    FOR SEVEN YEARS.[Rev. Myron W.
                            Reed's Ministry.]
                    
                        With pulse uncurbed by tourniquet of creeds
                        He wrought; not clothed in sacerdotal dress,
                        Against whose folds the throng dare never press,
                        But with a heart that felt for human needs,
                        And eyes that saw among the meanest weeds
                        Plants that, through cultivation, yet might bless
                        The world with flower and fruit of usefulness;
                        And all he spake accorded with his deeds.
                    
                    
                        More than a priest-a large-souled manly man-
                        His brother's lapse slow ever to condemn;
                        He taught no vengeful Father's wrathful plan,
                        But held the brimming cup of hope to them,
                        And seemed to take, when thence his pathway ran,
                        The " seamless robe," with healing in its
                            hem.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BLANK BULLETIN-BOARD.[Garfield.]
                    
                        Though the air was torn at midnight
                        By the bells' sad wailing grief
                        Which told a sorrowing nation
                        Of the dying of its chief,
                    
                    
                        And the morning showed our banners
                        Hanging droopingly and low,
                        And the golden air was saddened
                        By the somber weeds of woe,
                    
                    
                        Yet 'mongst all the mourning emblems,
                        None so high can ever rank
                        As the "boards" watched by the people,
                        Showing solemn, black and blank;
                    
                    
                        For we saw the word "Immortal"
                        Writ upon each vacant place,
                        As we see the word "Eternal"
                        On the blank expanse of space.
                    
                
                
                
                    LAKE LYON.
                    
                        Once more I stand upon the shore;
                        Your silver waves advance
                        And break in music at my feet
                        With old-time resonance.
                    
                    
                        The wand-like osier welcome nods,
                        The alders whisper low,- 
                        AEolian chords in unison
                        With waters rippling flow.
                    
                    
                        I feel the influence of the Spring
                        In quickening of the blood,
                        The power that brings to blossoming
                        The promise of the bud.
                    
                    
                        Since last I looked upon this scene
                        Three thousand suns have shone;
                        Ten times the lily leaves turned green-
                        Ten times the lilies blown.
                    
                    
                    
                        Ten times the orchard trees turned white,
                        And perfume sweet distilled,
                        The Spring-time promise of the fruit
                        That Autumn-time fulfilled.
                    
                    
                        O alder-bordered sylvan lake,
                        Where still the starlight gleams
                        As when, ere yet to life awake,
                        I dreamed youth's golden dreams,
                    
                    
                        Your lily-perfumed breath will float
                        O'er meadow-margined shore
                        Through all the years to come-but I
                        Shall dream those dreams no more.
                    
                
                
                
                    JUDGE NOT.
                    
                        Judge not too harshly him who with burglarious hand
                        Would pick the lock upon the gate 'twixt
                            "Here" and "There,"
                        Thou canst not know from what hot weary ways of sand
                        He found beneath its arch the shadows of despair,
                    
                    
                        Nor lightly call him coward, who all doubt has braved,
                        Facing the fears which no philosophy can quell-
                        To lie on shaded shores by Lethe's waters laved,
                        Or breathe the simoom blasts of a forgetless hell.
                    
                
                
                    TRUST.
                    
                        Oh sky! throughout thy farthest space
                        I reach my arms to Thee,
                        And feel Thy clasping love embrace,
                        The thing I know as me.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE MASTER PAINTER.
                    
                        O master painter, Nature, whom
                        No pupil e'er can match,
                        All fail who strive, in sun or gloom,
                        Thy lights and shades to catch!
                    
                    
                        Thou e'er must take the first award,
                        Whoe'er with thee may vie,
                        Because thy canvas is the sward,
                        Thy palette is the sky.
                    
                    
                        However changeful be thy moods,
                        Thy work is perfect when
                        Thou paintest where dead silence broods
                        Or in the haunts of men.
                    
                    
                        We seek thy touch when on the flowers
                        The summer's sunlight glints,
                        And own as well thy master powers
                        In autumn's neutral tints.
                    
                    
                    
                        Erstwhile we saw, when leaves were sere,
                        Such royal wealth of dye
                        As thou hadst scraped thy palette clear,
                        From off a sunset sky.
                    
                    
                        O matchless master, who dost choose
                        Not always colors warm,
                        But on thy palette mixest hues
                        To paint the winter's storm,
                    
                    
                        We see, when bright the hearth-fire burns,
                        The patterns on the pane
                        Which thou wilt paint in emerald ferns
                        When summer comes again.
                    
                    
                        And when has died the northwind's plaint,
                        With rapid stroke and bold
                        We know thy cunning hand will paint
                        A field of cloth of gold;
                    
                    
                        That tulip-tinted morns will beam
                        Upon the spring's first dawn,
                        The willow's golden maul-stick's gleam
                        To rest thy hand upon.
                    
                    
                    
                        And we who look, again shall feast
                        Our eyes on pictures drest
                        In royal purple from the east,
                        And scarlet from the west!
                    
                
            
        
    
