
     ----CITATION---- 
        Cooke, Marjorie Benton, 1876-1920. The Redemption of Anthony: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3887
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                THE REDEMPTION OF ANTHONY
            
            
            
                
                    THE REDEMPTION OF ANTHONY
                
                By MARJORIE BENTON COOKE
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    THE BOBBS-MERRILL CO. PUBLISHERS 
            
            
            
                Copyright 1911
                THE BOBBS- MERRILL CO.
            
            
            
                THE REDEMPTION OF ANTHONY
            
        
        
            
            
                THE REDEMPTION OF ANTHONY
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    "I FEEL that this night has witnessed Venus
                        presiding over the feast of Lucullus, while at her right hand sparkled the
                        wit of Æschylus--he was a wit, wasn't he?" Mr.
                        Peter Schuyler bent low over Mrs. Kaley Martin's hand.
                    "Good gracious, Peter, you're getting awfully
                        complicated!"
                    "Well, in words of one syllable, what I wish to say is that you look
                        your loveliest, Tony was great, and I've had a splendid
                        time."
                    "For all of which I am exceedingly grateful. You off, too,
                        Nan?"
                    "I am. Peter, move on, so I can say my 'day-day.' I've had a very nice time, Louise,
                        and lost my heart to The Parson."
                    "Good! Isn't he a dear? But I warn you, Nan, that
                        you're to let him alone. He's much too nice for you to
                        play with."
                    "My dear, he's actually clever! Think of anything in the
                        church being clever! And he never said one word about my sins!"
                    "He knew there was no time-at a dinner."
                    "Au contraire, he thinks I'm a sort of
                        worldly angel. See if he doesn't-here he comes." Mrs.
                        Crompton nodded gaily at the handsome man approaching his hostess, and went
                        on.
                    "I have to thank you, my dear Mrs. Martin, for a very pleasant
                        evening," The Parson said. "Such a delightful woman-Mrs.
                        Crompton-real spiritual quality."
                    "Spiritual, did you say, Parson?" Mrs. Martin laughed.
                        "I should never have thought of that adjective for Mrs.
                        Crompton."
                    
                    "No? She seemed so to me. When does the little girl arrive, Mrs.
                        Martin?"
                    "Priscilla? She comes to-morrow at five."
                    "Good! I shall come soon to see her, if I may. Good
                        night."
                    "Good night."
                    He passed on toward the dressing-room, and a voice behind her said:
                        "Well?" She turned, to face Mrs. Crompton's
                        laughing eyes.
                    "He thinks you have 'spiritual quality'-
                        them's his words," she gibed.
                    "Dear old soul!" Mrs. Crompton said. "I remembered
                        that hundred and fifty I won last week at bridge, and promised him an
                        altar-cloth. Spiritual quality-that's great!"
                    She disappeared, laughing, and one by one te guests departed, until the door
                        finally closed upon the last, and Mrs. Martin "turned, with a sigh
                        of relief, to the man who stood waiting.
                    "Shall I go?" he asked.
                    "Oh, no-smoke here."
                    
                    He rolled an armchair toward the fire, and when she was comfortably ensconced
                        he turned off the electric lights and came and stood before her in the
                        firelight, looking down at her.
                    "Well?" said she, looking up at him.
                    "Well," he replied, lighting a cigar.
                    "Aren't you going to say anything pleasant,
                        Tony?"
                    "It was a great success."
                    "Oh, the dinner-yes; but-"
                    "But what?"
                    "Tony, you're so unsatisfactory! Why can't you say
                        that I never looked better in my life; that I made an exceptionally
                        difficult dinner go by sheer force of will; that you think I'm the
                        eighth wonder of the world, and a few comfy things like that?"
                    He blew smoke leisurely before he answered. "What's the
                        use? I think it, and you know it, so what's the use of babbling
                        about it?"
                    "How like a man! It's the babbling that counts; not the
                        truth."
                    
                    "What nonsense!"
                    "It's not nonsense. If you think agreeable things,
                        it's your Christian duty to say them. It helps more than anything
                        in the world."
                    "Well, everybody else has done his Christian duty to-night, so
                        can't you let me off?"
                    "No-for you're the only one who counts."
                    "I don't know, you know. I always put my foot in it when I
                        try."
                    Mrs. Martin sighed and smiled. "No matter-it's really too
                        hard work to extract it. You were great at the table. I should never have
                        swung it without you."
                    "Ground out a few ancient tales-that's all I did. You were
                        the whole thing."
                    "I had a splendid time. I felt as if it were my last
                        fling."
                    "Your last fling?"
                    "Yes. To-morrow, you know-"
                    "To-morrow? Well, what happens tomorrow?"
                    "Priscilla comes home."
                    
                    "Priscilla? Oh, yes, the girl. Well, what's the
                        difference?"
                    "Mrs. Kaley Martin, the mother of a débutante, is not the
                        same person as this Mrs. Kaley Martin."
                    "What difference can she make in your life?"
                    "I don't know-she may make none; and yet I have a feeling,
                        a foreboding, that she is going to make a great deal."
                    "What sort of a girl is this daughter of yours,
                        anyhow?"
                    "I don't know-really, I don't. I've never
                        gotten at her much. You see, she's been away to school for so long,
                        and before that there were governesses-" She leaned toward him
                        impulsively. "Tony, do you think it's a horrible thing for
                        me not to want this strange young woman to come here and interfere with my
                        whole scheme of life?"
                    "She'll probably marry."
                    "I don't know-perhaps. She's rather pretty, I
                        think; but she is not clever."
                    
                    "That won't hurt her chances any. Most men prefer the other
                        kind-at home."
                    Mrs. Martin looked at him fixedly a moment. "I wonder what
                        she'll think of you, Tony?"
                    He flicked his ashes into the grate. "I assure you it's a
                        matter of total indifference to me. I don't like
                        girls."
                    "I suppose she'll think it's shocking for an old
                        lady like me to have a beau."
                    "Am I a beau?"
                    "Aren't you?"
                    "No; I'm your creature-a thing you made with your own
                        hands."
                    "Don't. I only helped you use what the gods gave
                        you."
                    "You only saved what I was determined to destroy. Don't
                        think I don't know what you've done, Louise."
                    "Tony, if you should thank me, I'd hate you!" she
                        flung out at him.
                    "Even I couldn't be so altogether banal as
                        that."
                    The silence grew heavy.
                    
                    "Perhaps the girl is going to bring you a new
                        interest."
                    "Perhaps"-indifferently.
                    "She may prove a great comfort to you. You must be lonely
                        sometimes-"
                    "Tony, you talk like an old woman. Go home-do!"
                    "You deny that you're lonely?"
                    "I never think of it. I haven't thought of myself for three
                        years."
                    "What have you been thinking of?"
                    "Your success."
                    "My success! Well, I suppose most peo- ple would say that it had
                        come."
                    She looked at him quizzically. "Most people! What was the sale of
                        the last book? Three editions in-how long was it?"
                    "Editions? You don't measure success by editions. Do you
                        think I've succeeded?"
                    "Splendidly."
                    "You're sure?"
                    "Quite sure. To me you succeeded from that day you came to me and
                        said: 'From this day I'll never touch a drop to
                        drink.' "
                    
                    "Lord, what a drunken sot I was! What on earth ever gave you the
                        hint that there was a spark in me worth saving, Louise?"
                    "You haven't forgotten that night we met at the
                        Carltons'? How delightfully you talked about your work and your
                        ideals-"
                    Drake broke in crisply. "And then drank too much champagne and
                        blubbered my failures. I remember only too well, unfortunately. The question
                        is, why did you send for me later?"
                    "Because I thought it might prove worth
                    He laughed. "I remember I tossed up to see whether or not
                        I'd come in answer to your note."
                    "You were a perfect bear at first; determined not to be patronized,
                        nor made friends with."
                    "What a brute I must have been, dear!"
                    She winced, and smiled up at him. "You were an uncouth creature
                        those days, Tony. I feel quite proud of you now when I think back to
                        them."
                    
                    "How you lugged me up, didn't you?-step by step! Why, I
                        don't think I ever knew a lady until I knew you."
                    "Nonsense !"
                    "Don't belittle any of it. You shamed me into being a
                        decent creature, and what I amI owe to you. I've worked like a
                        slave these three years just to prove to you that you weren't
                        mistaken-that there was something to save, perhaps--and now, as far as the
                        world goes, I'm a successful man."
                    "Why do you say, 'as far as the world goes'?
                        Don't you consider yourself successful?"
                    "No, there's no such thing I write books and they sell, and
                        so some little men who call themselves critics say I'm the hope of
                        the future, and such rot. Does that make me a big man? Does it make me a
                        happy man? Does it make my life rounded, complete?"
                    He walked to and fro, out of the light into the shadow and back again, Mrs.
                        Martin watching him.
                    
                    "What you need is change. Why not go away for awhile? Why not go
                        abroad?"
                    "I can't. I must work."
                    "Take your work along."
                    "Will you go, too?"
                    "I? I can not. There's Priscilla-"
                    "Then I can't go. I can't work without
                        you"-impatiently.
                    "You haven't tried."
                    "There's no use trying. I know. Your judgment, your taste-I
                        must have them until I'm bigger, surer of myself."
                    "And then?"
                    He stopped as if she had interrupted a train of thought.
                        "What?"
                    "Nothing-nothing."
                    "Do you think it's been worth your while?"
                    "Eminently."
                    "And what have you gotten out of it-except a little vicarious
                        joy?"
                    "I'm essential to you in your work-you've just
                        said it-that is my reward."
                    He drew a chair up beside her and took  her
                        hand. "And now, what next?" he said.
                    She rose and walked away from him, breathing heavily. "I'm
                        too tired to-night to talk of-that."
                    "What a selfish brute I am not to remember that! I'll
                        go."
                    "Yes, please do."
                    She came to him and gave him both her hands, and he held them closely a
                        minute, looking at her. Suddenly and for the first time he took her in his
                        arms and kissed her lips; then without a word he went out, and Mrs. Martin
                        hid her face in her hands for joy, and-wept.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    "EVERYTHING in order, Mary?" asked Mrs.
                        Martin, entering the room intended for Priscilla and looking about
                        casually.
                    "Yes, madame; I think so."
                    "Have some flowers on the dressingtable."
                    "Very well, Mrs. Martin. Are you driving to the station to meet Miss
                        Priscilla?" she continued, with the privilege of an old
                        servant.
                    "No, oh, no! I've sent James for her. We'll have
                        tea in my dressing-room when she comes, Mary."
                    "Very well."
                    Mrs. Martin wandered about aimlessly, rearranging things absent-mindedly, and
                        finally went back to her own part of the house. She was restless; the absurd
                        real- ization began to dawn upon her that she
                        dreaded her daughter's home-coming, dreaded the first half-hour and
                        the.first weeks of adjustment. She even blamed herself a bit that she knew
                        so little of the girl's real self. Her physical needs and habits
                        she had always considered religiously, but farther than that she had never
                        gone.
                    Mr. Kaley Martin's death, ten years before, had been a distinct
                        relief, and she had wilfully set aside all reminders of him-and Priscilla
                        came under that head.
                    Mrs. Martin threw herself into a comfortable chair, and gave herself up to a
                        consideration of the evidence at hand in regard to Priscilla. She recalled
                        the rather prim little miss of fifteen who had spent the summer vacation at
                        home two years before (that was the last real visit, for the girl had been
                        abroad all the time since); she recalled the stiff letters, sometimes so
                        childish in their outlook upon life as to be pathetic. She realized that she
                        had no idea of the  girl's tastes or
                        thoughts, and she got up petulantly.
                    "I suppose good mothers are born, not made; it's evidently
                        not my forte. The truth remains, Priscilla is a
                        trial."
                    The door behind her opened swiftly, and she turned. The girl stood there a
                        moment, motionless, while mother and daughter measured each other. Mrs.
                        Martin's first impression was half pleasure, half dismay-the girl
                        was a beauty, there was no doubt of that.
                    "Mother!" she said, in a little, half-choked voice.
                        "Mother!"
                    She put her arms about her mother's neck and clung tightly, so
                        tightly that Mrs. Martin could feel the beating of her heart. She almost
                        resented the passion of the embrace.
                    "How do you do, Priscilla?" she said, releasing her gently.
                        "My dear, how you've grown! Let's have a look at
                        you." She held her off and took an inventory of gold hair, hazel
                        eyes wet with tears, mouth quiv-ering with
                        emotion, slight, straight young figure.
                    "Mother, are you glad? Oh, I suppose I am to be home !"
                    "You wanted to come, then?" Mrs. Martin inquired.
                    "Wanted to? It's been my dream for years-to belong at home.
                        This last year I've marked off each day and night that brought me
                        nearer."
                    Mrs. Martin turned and rang for tea. "Take off your things,
                        Priscilla. Didn't you like it at school?"
                    "Oh, yes, I suppose I did," she answered, putting her
                        things aside. "It was all very well, but, of course, it
                        wasn't home."
                    "No, I suppose not. Put the things here, please, Mary."
                    Priscilla flew at the maid. "Oh, Mary, I'm so glad to see
                        you! How are you? And how's the cook, and Hannah, and all
                        "of them?"
                    "They're well, thank ye, Miss Prissy, and  we're all delighted to have ye home
                        fur good."
                    "Thanks-it's just heavenly to be here."
                    Mrs. Martin watched Mary's pleased exit and the girl's
                        flush of pleasure. "I thought you were going to kiss her,
                        Priscilla," she said, in amused sarcasm.
                    The girl flushed. "Was I too enthusias- tic? You see, I just love
                        Mary; she means home to me-she and Hannah and the cook. They were so good to
                        me that last time I was. here-I was hardly ever lonesome."
                    "Indeed?" said Mrs. Martin, with a flash of anger at
                        something the unconsidered speech implied. "How do you take your
                        tea?"
                    "Lemon and two lumps, please."
                    Priscilla drew her chair opposite her mother's and fixed her eyes on
                        her steadily. "Isn't this sweet for us to be sitting here
                        having tea together, mother?"
                    "Yes, isn't it nice? Now tell me about your two years of
                        Europe."
                    "Oh, don't let's! Some other day for  Europe-now let's talk about things
                        that count-about you and me. Mother, have you wanted me ever?"
                    Mrs. Martin moved uneasily. "Don't let us be emotional,
                        Priscilla; it is too great a strain. Let us just stick to the facts.
                        We've lived our lives practically apart, and now we're
                        going to try to live together in peace and happiness, but we
                        mustn't demand too much of each other all at once."
                    "So-you haven't," Priscilla concluded simply, and
                        her eyes never wandered from her mother's face. "Of course
                        I don't see why you should, but I hoped- I think I don't
                        care for any more tea." She got up and wandered to the window.
                    Mrs. Martin felt uncomfortable, futile. She was not handling the situation in
                        her usual brilliant way. "I hope you are going to be very happy
                        here. We'll have parties and dinners and balls, and amuse ourselves
                        splendidly. I've planned a cotillion for you in a couple of weeks,
                        and you're to lead it with Peter Schuyler, the most popular  youth in town. Oh, we'll amuse you,
                        my dear!"
                    "Thank you, mother," the girl said, turning to her.
                    Mrs. Martin continued to fight for time. "Then we'll induce
                        Tony to have a house-party for you down in the country. You'll
                        enjoy Tony-Mr. Anthony Drake, you know."
                    "Drake? The Drake who wrote The Soul of
                            Ignace?"
                    "Yes; you know about him, then?"
                    "He's wonderful, isn't he?"
                    "You haven't read The Soul of
                            Ignace?" demanded Mrs. Martin, in astonishment.
                    "Oh, yes; several times."
                    "Good gracious! didn't they choose your books for
                        you?"
                    "I've read all his things."
                    "He's an interesting man-he's here a great
                        deal."
                    "Here-in this house? Then, I shall meet him!"
                    "Doubtless"-smiling.
                    
                    A knock at the door interrupted them, and the man brought in a card.
                    "He's here now. Run down and talk to him until I get into
                        another gown."
                    Priscilla actually turned white. "I? Go and talk to him? Oh, I couldn't!"
                    "Nonsense! Run along."
                    "Mother, I'd be frightened to death. I
                        couldn't!"
                    "Don't be silly, Priscilla; he's nothing but a
                        man. I'll be down in a minute."
                    She disappeared into her bedroom, and Priscilla watched her go with
                        frightened eyes.
                    "She wants me to go," she whispered, and
                        turned and walked down-stairs.
                    Mr. Anthony Drake was pacing to and fro in the drawing-room, his thoughts
                        upon the coming half-hour. The developments of the night before seemed to
                        him to demand immediate readjustment of his relations to Mrs. Martin. He had
                        spent the night going over the past and interrogating the future, and had
                        arrived at the obvious con- clusion that they
                        could not go on for ever in the halcyon camaraderie of the last three years,
                        especially now that the daughter was arriving to complicate the situation.
                        He turned at the step on the stair, and faced Priscilla, who stood between
                        the curtains, transfixed with fear in the presence of the great man. He
                        stared silently.
                    "I am Priscilla," she said, in a faint voice. "I
                        am Priscilla Martin-"
                    She advanced and held out her hand, and Drake recalled himself with
                        difficulty.
                    "Oh, yes, to be sure!" he said. "How do you
                        do?"
                    She eyed him gravely, noting his evident irritation. "I
                        shouldn't have come at all-I shouldn't have dreamed of
                        coming down-but my mother wished me to talk to you for ten minutes until she
                        is dressed. Will you sit down?"
                    "Thanks. I-I suppose you're glad to get home?" he
                        said uncomfortably, looking "across at her.
                    "Oh, yes, very."
                    
                    "We've heard a good deal about you lately."
                    She leaned toward him impulsively. "Have you? Has my mother talked
                        of me?"
                    "Yes. She's been wondering what she's going to do
                        with you."
                    "Oh!"
                    So long a pause ensued that Priscilla finally hurled herself into the breach.
                        "You're the first great person I've ever met, so
                        I don't know what to say to you."
                    "I? I'm not a great person. If I were, I'd know
                        what to say to you. I don't get on with girls-they frighten
                        me."
                    "Are you frightened now? If you're half as frightened as I
                        am, don't you think I might go tell mother that we
                        couldn't talk?"
                    He looked at her, and laughed. "I'd hate to confess to your
                        mother that I was afraid of anything."
                    "Oh, you're that way, too, are you?"
                    "Your mother isn't afraid of anything."
                    
                    "No, I suppose not."
                    "She'd laugh at us."
                    "Yes, she always laughs at things."
                    Again he glanced at her. "I suppose you liked it at
                        school?"
                    "No."
                    "Oh, is that so? Why didn't you?"
                    "It would take four years really to tell you."
                    He laughed. "We'd better postpone it, then, for
                        it's rather near dinner-time."
                    "Besides, I couldn't tell you, anyhow-you wouldn't
                        understand."
                    "You don't think much of my intellect, then?"
                    "Oh, I think you're very great, but I don't think
                        you could understand just a plain girl-like me."
                    Mrs. Martin came in, and he went to meet her, half-way across the room.
                    "Why, what's the matter?" he asked of her.
                    "Mother, may I be excused? I'm a little
                        tired-I-"
                    
                    "By all means, Priscilla. Dinner at seven-thirty."
                    "Yes, mother. Good afternoon, Mr. Drake."
                    He bowed silently, then turned to Mrs. Kaley Martin.
                    "What's the matter with you?" he asked again.
                    "Don't ask me. I've been through the hardest
                        half-hour of my life."
                    "You mean?"
                    "Did you ever hear of people being transformed in an hour?
                        That's what's happened to me. What did you think of her?
                        Is she a beauty?"
                    "I don't know-I didn't notice. But never mind
                        her-let us talk of you. What is this change you talk about? What did she do
                        to you?"
                    "She swamped me in a sea of emotions; she tugged me hither and
                        thither, where I didn't want to go; she put her hands ruthlessly on
                        old wounds and opened them up  again; she.
                        arraigned me before the past, and, worst of all, she loves me."
                    "What a strange woman you are, Louise! Didn't you want her
                        to love you?"
                    "I wanted her to be fond of me; but love-there are such terrible
                        obligations in being loved!"
                    "I've come to talk to you about love, myself."
                    "Don't-I can't bear anything more tonight. You are
                        to stay to dinner, Tony, and protect me. You must keep that child's
                        unblinking eyes off me, you must be the safety-valve, or I shall do
                        something insane."
                    "Very well," he said quietly, "my case can wait,
                        and to-night we'll attend to the case of Priscilla-that's
                        her name, isn't it?"
                    "Yes, that's her name-Priscilla. And to think that we
                        counted on the chance that her coming would make no
                        difference!"
                    "Possibly you exaggerate your problem just now."
                    
                    "Tony, it takes the most finished diplomat years to prepare himself
                        to face a situation of half the vitalness of this one of mine; and
                        I've thrown away all my years of preparation!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    "WELL, Priscilla, how have you put in the
                        morning?" asked Mrs. Martin, kissing her daughter's cheek
                        as she sat down to the luncheon-table.
                    "Pretty well-but it's been rather long," the girl
                        admitted. "I've arranged all the flowers, and settled my
                        things in my room, but it didn't take quite all the time.
                        Couldn't I have some regular morning things to do, mother, so
                        I'd feel more settled here?"
                    "My dear, your regular morning thing to do will be to sleep, as soon
                        as you get started socially. We must look over your clothes and get Madame
                        Sonci started on some new gowns, and that will take time. We'll
                        keep you busy enough, never fear."
                    "Thanks. You see, I'm used to being busy. At school we had
                        things to do every hour of the day, so it's pretty hard to
                        drift."
                    
                    "Yes, I suppose you'll miss it-the routine life, and your
                        friends, and all. We might ask some of the girls to visit you-would you like
                        that? Who was your best friend?"
                    Priscilla hesitated. "Well, I don't know that I really had
                        one. I didn't go about with the other girls very much; I always had
                        my--I always spent my time with-"
                    "Well, with whom?"
                    "I'd rather not tell you, if you don't
                        mind."
                    "You'd rather not tell? Why, what do you mean, Priscilla?
                        Who was this mysterious companion?"
                    "Please don't laugh, mother--it was just somebody I
                        pretended."
                    "Your best friend was somebody you pretended?" repeated
                        Mrs. Martin curiously.
                    Priscilla nodded.
                    "What a strange child you are! Didn't you like the
                        girls?"
                    "Oh, yes-some of them. But if you just pretend your best friend,
                        she's always with  you, and she never
                        says mean, spiteful things, nor hurts your feelings, nor laughs at
                        you-"
                    Mrs. Martin smiled-but it was a winning smile, instead of her habitual
                        satiric one. "It has obvious advantages-you could shut her out when
                        she bored you."
                    "Oh, but she never bored me!"
                    "Really? She must have been pretended. I shall ask
                        Mr. Drake to take you in hand-we may make a great novelist of
                        you."
                    "I liked him. I wasn't a bit afraid, after the
                        first."
                    "I told you he was harmless. Did he talk to you?"
                    "At first he was annoyed at my being there, but I told him I only
                        came because I was sent, so then he talked to me, just to be
                        polite."
                    "He doesn't usually take the trouble."
                    "I wished he wouldn't. I liked him better when he was
                        quiet. It wasn't stupid quiet; it was just quiet
                        quiet."
                    
                    "My conscience, Priscilla! I'm almost afraid
                        you're clever!" said Mrs. Martin, rising.
                    "Oh, no, I'm not. I'm sorry if I've
                        talked too much."
                    "Nonse"se! You've quite amused me, and
                        I've been bored to death all morning."
                    "Oh, I'm glad!"
                    "Now, what do you want to do this afternoon? I'm going to
                        drive to town to do some errands, and I've asked a few people in to
                        tea at five to meet you. Now, will you come with me, or do you want to amuse
                        yourself until five?"
                    "If you don't mind, I'll take Mary and go to the
                        park and skate."
                    "Skate? Mercy! Isn't it too cold?"
                    "It's just right. You don't mind,
                        then?"
                    "Of course not-only, be back at five."
                    "All right, Madame Mother," she called, as she flew
                        up-stairs.
                    
                    Five o'clock found Peter, Mrs. Crompton and The Parson gathered at
                        the tea-table.
                    
                    "Peter," said Mrs. Martin, looking at him sternly,
                        "I relied on your tact and judgment, and they have played me
                        false."
                    "Say not so, fair lady; what shall the owner do to redeem
                        them?"
                    Mrs. Martin shook her head. "I knew it would come, and I hoped it
                        wouldn't. I am relegated to the position of the mother of my
                        daughter. The Parson, here, comes to my tea-party, and even while he
                        inquires for my health, his eye wanders and he says: 'Where is
                        she?' Nan, here, blows in upon us and ignores us all, demanding:
                        'Where's your girl?' And now you-my erstwhile
                        slave of the lamp-bfind me inadequate!"
                    "Stuff, Louise!" broke in Mrs. Crompton. "You
                        asked us here for a private exhibition of your latest, and we want to see
                        whether it is a signed proof or a copy."
                    "We hope it is a copy," said The Parson gallantly.
                    "Well, my exhibit has gone skating, under strict orders to return at
                        five, and, my dears, it is an original, not a copy."
                    
                    "Humph! I don't care much for girls myself. Boys are more
                        my style," quoth Mrs. Crompton.
                    "Thanks," said Peter, offering her tea.
                    "Oh, you! Peter, you're a perennial youth, like Cupid.
                        You've been the boy wonder of society for ten years."
                    "Spare me!" cried the victim, on his knees at once, hands
                        raised.
                    "Pick on some one your own age, Nan," interposed Mrs.
                        Martin.
                    "I can't-they're all dead."
                    "In the person of old age, I offer myself as victim, Mrs.
                        Crompton," said The Parson, sitting down beside her.
                    Peter returned to Mrs. Martin and the tea-table. "Where's
                        Tony?" he asked.
                    "I don't know-he'll probably turn up later, but I
                        never depend on him."
                    "Idiosyncrasies of genius, I suppose."
                    "No, just a Tonyism. It is one of the things that make him
                        interesting."
                    "Ah, do you mind if I jot that down? Be unreliable and you will be
                        interesting. If  any man could be all that the
                        world thinks Tony to be, he'd be the only living world-wonder in
                        captivity."
                    "You're jealous, Peter."
                    "I am. I think the whole world runs mad on celebrities. When every
                        third man is a celebrity, why isn't it a distinction to be a
                        commonplace man, like me?"
                    "You're not commonplace enough;
                        you're-Peter."
                    The door opened at this juncture, and Priscilla entered. "Oh,
                        mother, I'm so sorry to be late!" she began impulsively,
                        and then stopped.
                    "Great Jupiter!" said Peter, and they all sat and looked at
                        her.
                    She certainly was a charming vision, this red-cheeked, bright-eyed Priscilla,
                        in her close-fitting blue velvet skating-suit, setting off her slimness, and
                        Mrs. Martin admitted, with unexpected pride, that this was Priscilla at her
                        best.
                    "Come in, wicked one," she said, holding out her hand to
                        the girl, suddenly very shy.  "This is
                        Priscilla, everybody. This is Mrs. Crompton, this is The Parson, and this
                        is-Peter."
                    "Last but not least-Peter," reiterated that gentleman,
                        bowing.
                    "How do you do?" said Priscilla gravely.
                    "Mercy, Louise! why didn't you tell us she was a beauty?
                        You've no right to spring it on us like this."
                    Mrs. Martin smiled down at the girl. "Priscilla, Mrs. Crompton
                        thinks you're a beauty," she said, in experiment.
                    "I'm afraid she's making fun of us,
                        mother," the girl answered simply, and turned away.
                    "Pour yourself some tea, dear, and talk to Peter. But be
                        careful-Peter's very young."
                    Priscilla obediently took her seat at the table and poured her tea.
                    "I hope you won't think me too young to be noticed, Miss
                        Martin," said Peter, watching her.
                    "Are you so very young?" she asked,  looking at him directly. "You don't look
                        it."
                    He laughed. "Thanks-I'm not, really. But I live under that
                        constant curse of eternal youth, due to pink cheeks and curly
                        hair."
                    "Oh, I see."
                    "But in spite of it I'm a very nice sort of a chap, and I
                        hope you'll like me."
                    "I hope so."
                    "Your mother and Mrs. Crompton will recommend me, I'm
                        sure."
                    "What's that, Peter? I heard my name. What scandal are you
                        telling that child about me?"
                    "Miss Martin, I appeal to you-was it a scandal?"
                    "It may be-he says you recommend him."
                    This shot was greeted with much laughter, and Mrs. Martin inspected her
                        daughter with surprise. What a combination of naïveté and ease!
                    "Don't let him mislead you, my dear,"  Mrs. Crompton said; "he's a
                        whited sepulcher, and there are people who think he uses
                        rouge."
                    "I think poor Schuyler has been punished enough this
                        afternoon," said The Parson, coming over to Priscilla.
                    "Poor Peterkin! Come over here and sit on my lap," said
                        Mrs. Martin.
                    Peter and The Parson exchanged places.
                    "We're very glad to welcome you home, Miss
                        Priscilla," said The Parson, in his genial way.
                    "Thank you, I'm glad to be home," she
                        answered.
                    "I suppose it is quite a marked change from the schoolroom to such
                        an atmosphere as this."
                    "Yes, it is, and I don't know what they're talking
                        about at all; do you?"
                    He looked at her smilingly. "Not always. You see, their idea is to
                        talk in such a manner as to hide what they really think, and you and I
                        regard conversation as a means of expressing our thoughts."
                    
                    "I suppose that's it. I hope I'll get used to it,
                        but it makes me afraid just now."
                    "You needn't be. If the thoughts are worth revealing, I
                        think our way is the best. What shall you do with yourself?"
                    "Mother is going to introduce me soon."
                    "Dear, dear! What a pity! Now, that's the old-fashioned
                        part of me, and the new-fashioned part says: 'What a fine time
                        you'll have.' But I always regret that that mother of
                        yours wastes her brain on social frippery; but there-she's made
                        Drake, and that will stand as her epitaph."
                    "Made him? How?"
                    The Parson hemmed a little uncertainly. "Well, the story goes that
                        your mother discovered Drake's genius, saved him from himself, and
                        made him what he is."
                    "How splendid!" cried Priscilla, her eyes shining.
                    "What's splendid?" broke in Mrs. Crompton, looking
                        at them.
                    "Don't tell her," said Priscilla impulsively.
                    
                    "Why, Priscilla!" Mrs. Martin said.
                    "Faith, and why shouldn't he tell me?" inquired
                        Mrs. Crompton.
                    "Because you'll laugh, and I don't want you
                        to."
                    Priscilla appealed to her mother, flushed and miserable. "I beg your
                        pardon," she said then.
                    "Priscilla has not yet acquired social tact," Mrs. Martin
                        explained.
                    "Priscilla still dares to speak the truth," The Parson
                        substituted. "Let her alone; she'll soon learn
                        better."
                    "I never heard you preach before," laughed Mrs.
                        Crompton.
                    "Some day I shall take for my text 'Laughers and
                        Scoffers,' and then, Mrs. Crompton, beware!" he added
                        lightly.
                    Drake was announced.
                    "Come in-do. We're about to have a sermon from The Parson.
                        'Parlor Talks by a Prominent Parson!" cried Mrs.
                        Crompton.
                    
                    "How do you do?" said Drake to Mrs. Martin, who stood
                        smilingly by, watching the encounter. He bowed to the rest, and his eye
                        hovered a moment about Priscilla, who blushed furiously.
                    "No doubt the sermon is needed," he replied to Mrs.
                        Crompton's fling. "What's the text?"
                    "Laugh not-that ye be not laughed at!" said Peter.
                    The Parson took him up. "That does very well-there is obvious need
                        of a protest. We laugh at eveything-political juggling, moral intriguing,
                        business dishonesty, they all amuse us-as part of a game. It is the crying
                        evil of our day-to shrug the shoulders and to laugh."
                    "That's the text of my next book, Parson," Drake
                        said. "Mrs. Martin really sug- gested it in something she said
                        once, about how we moderns shift responsibilities-from personal to national
                        ones-"
                    "Louise ought to make a good agitator-she's had hers away at school," Mrs. Crompton put
                        in.
                    "I say, that's a mean shot!" cried Peter.
                    "It's always unwise to sail too close to a personality,
                        don't you think, Mrs. Crompton?" said Drake. "It
                        always stimulates curiosity about one's own
                        practises."
                    "Well, I haven't any principles, and my practises are
                        scandalous, so I've a perfect right to cast the first
                        stone."
                    "You're behaving very badly, Nan," Mrs. Martin
                        said. "There's no vestige left of the spiritual
                        quality."
                    "It's useless to encourage illusions about yourself in
                        other people's breasts, don't you think so,
                        Parson?" she demanded.
                    "Illusions are so often safeguards, Mrs. Crompton. Even the best of
                        us like a little haze between the observer and our inner-most
                        selves."
                    "If you weigh nearly two hundred, as I do, there is quite a thick
                        haze between the observer and your innermost self," murmured Peter
                        softly.
                    
                    "Oh!" said Priscilla in protest.
                    The Parson smiled, turning to her. "My dear, they're all
                        sick of this disease save you and me. We must be very careful or
                        we'll catch it."
                    He offered his hand to Mrs. Martin. "I must run along," he
                        said. "I'm delighted to have met the daughter, and I
                        think"-here he took Priscilla's hand-"I think we
                        are going to be great friends."
                    "Thank you," said the girl gratefully.
                    "Parson, if you can put up with me for ten minutes longer,
                        I'll drop you at the parsonage," Mrs. Crompton said.
                    "Charmed."
                    "I want to try to reinstate the illusions," she explained.
                        "Hope you aren't determined not to like me," she
                        said to Priscilla. "Bring her around for tea, Louise. Adieu, Tony.
                        Ta-ta, Peter."
                    Upon their exit, Peter once more joined Priscilla. "We've
                        made a bad impression on you, haven't we?" he said.
                    "No, only I'm stupid, and I don't know  how to talk to you," she answered
                        frankly, as he sat down beside her.
                    "Why so abstracted?" said Mrs. Martin to Drake.
                    "I'm not. I came to ask you to marry me."
                    "Tony! What do you mean?"
                    "Just that. I've tried to do it twice before and been
                        interrupted, and I want to get it settled."
                    "Oh, but not here and now!"
                    "Why not?"
                    "With Peter and Priscilla here, and all."
                    "Well, they can't hear us; they seem quite
                        absorbed."
                    "But, Tony, it's like proposing in a
                        street-car-it's so unromantic!"
                    "Oh, well, if you come to that, I am un-romantic,
                        and no one knows it better than you."
                    "No, no one does."
                    "Why not settle it right here, then, and be done with it?
                        I've been thinking over your idea of going abroad, and it seems a
                        good  one. We can go somewhere in Italy for
                        June-"
                    "Are you asking me because you love me, Tony, or because you need
                        me?"
                    "Why, both."
                    "Oh, you only mentioned one, you know."
                    "I thought you understood me well enough to know that I
                        can't do this sort of thing like a matinée hero; but I do
                        want and need you more than anything else in the world,
                        Louise."
                    "I suppose it is thoroughly like a woman to want you to say:
                        'I love you better than anything on earth.' " She
                        rose. "I want to think it over, Tony; you'll have to give
                        me time."
                    He rose, too, a trifle annoyed and quite surprised. "Of course,
                        but-"
                    "You're in a hurry to make your plans? I understand. Peter,
                        you must go now, un less you'll stay on to dinner. We have to
                        dress."
                    "Mark how she speeds the parting guest! Are you dismissed, too,
                        Tony?"
                    
                    "I think I am," Drake replied ruefully.
                    "Say a good word for me to Miss Priscilla," Peter said in
                        parting., "She thinks I'm unregenerate."
                    "I don't know what that means," said Priscilla
                        gravely.
                    "Well, don't learn," Drake said, and bowed his
                        farewell.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    OUTSIDE, the carriage doors closed with an unremitting
                        bang-bang-bang, and the crowd of guests hurried on past the idle crowd of
                        onlookers, up the stairs to the dressing-rooms, whence later it merged
                        itself into the stream flowing into the ballroom.
                    It seemed to Priscilla as if the whole world was marching up to her, shaking
                        her by the hand, greeting her monotonously, and passing on again. She stood
                        beside her mother, very straight, her head up, her face flushed, determined
                        not to disgrace this glorious mother of hers, no matter what the cost. But
                        it seemed strange to her that any one could think this clatter and crowding
                        pleasant.
                    Her thoughts flew back to the little school dances which constituted her idea
                             of social events, when the girls with
                        handkerchiefs tied about their arms were the only men; then she looked about
                        her at the beautiful ballroom-a dazzle of lights-the brilliant throng that
                        moved about it, and men-there were apparently thousands. She glanced up at
                        her mother, who was fairly radiant to-night, and recalled Mrs.
                        Crompton's remarks in passing: "You may call it your
                        swan-song, if you like, Louise, but it's the best song I ever heard
                        you sing!" Whatever it meant, her mother had laughed gaily.
                    "I don't often go to balls, Miss Priscilla," said
                        a familiar voice, "but I couldn't resist the temptation of
                        coming to yours."
                    "Oh, goody!" she cried impulsively as she came out of her
                        dream to find The Parson shaking her hand.
                    The Parson and Mrs. Martin laughed.
                    "Priscilla's flattery is direct," said Mrs.
                        Martin. "Suppose you take her along and get her a cup of coffee,
                        Parson; the poor child's tired to death already. I think every  one is here. The cotillion is at ten, you
                        know."
                    "Won't you go in my place, mother?"
                    "Mercy, no, child, I'm used to it! You run
                        along."
                    "Come along, and make me the proudest man here," said The
                        Parson, offering his arm.
                    "I wish to tell you once again that never in your life have you
                        looked so 'gorjoose,'" murmured Peter to Mrs.
                        Martin, as he joined her.
                    "It helps greatly, Peter, thank you," she answered.
                        "Priscilla is in the dining-room with The Parson, so when you want
                        to start things go and get her."
                    "The Parson? Why didn't you let me take her to the
                        dining-room?"
                    "You have privileges enough. The Parson can't dance the
                        cotillion with her, you know."
                    "Drat the Parson!" said Peter, hurrying on.
                    Some other people held Mrs. Martin's at-tention for a time, and when they passed on Drake was beside her.
                    "So you decided to come?"
                    "Yes, I didn't want to hurt the little girl's
                        feelings."
                    "Oh, I thought perhaps you came to see me."
                    "I did."
                    "Well, you're just in time to lead me away to the other end
                        of the ballroom. It is time for Peter to get people seated. Isn't
                        it a nice party, Tony?"
                    "Yes, great," he answered, as if he had just noticed that
                        it was a party. "Where is your little
                        girl?"
                    "Gone to get some coffee with The Parson. How do I look,
                        Tony?"
                    "You look fine," he answered promptly-much too
                        promptly.
                    "Tony, Tony, what am I going to do with you?" she objected
                        despairingly.
                    "Marry me, I hope," he replied.
                    "Mrs. Martin overlooked this entirely. "Wait until you see
                        Priscilla, and then you'll  think I
                        look like old Aunt Sadie from the country."
                    He laughed and looked at her, in the full bloom of her womanhood, brilliant,
                        beautiful, perfectly poised, and began to voice his protest at her gibe,
                        when suddenly he stopped and looked straight ahead, as if at a vision. The
                        stream of people following stopped, too, and looked. At the far end of the
                        room, two steps above the level of the ballroom floor, there was a door
                        leading into the dining-room, which had been twined with vines and roses,
                        and there, poised a minute before she descended, stood Priscilla, in her
                        white tulle gown, her eyes shining, and the light on her yellow hair making
                        an aureole about her head-Priscilla, like an artist's ideal of
                        youth.
                    "Elaine, the Lily-maid," Drake murmured, half to himself.
                        Then the moment passed, Peter led Priscilla into the room, the music began,
                        and Mrs. Martin pulled herself together sharply.
                    "She's very lovely to-night, isn't
                        she?"
                    
                    "Yes," said Drake.
                    "She had twenty-two bouquets, and she chose to carry yours. It was
                        sweet of you to send lilies of the valley, Tony, and so significant-the
                        violets for me!"
                    "She is carrying my flowers," Drake repeated.
                    "We both are," she answered, pointing to
                        her own corsage.
                    "I am very proud," he said.
                    "Mother, Mr. Schuyler thinks we'd better begin. Oh, how do
                        you do, Mr. Drake? I'm so glad you
                        came."
                    "Thank you," he said, looking at her intently.
                    "I'm frightened to death, mother. If it wasn't for
                        Mr. Peter, I couldn't possibly do a thing."
                    "Priscilla, you're getting on," said her mother.
                        "Go ahead, Peter. I'm dancing with Colonel Bracken-ah,
                        here he is now. Sorry you don't dance, Tony. Go make yourself
                        agreeable to some other old lady!"
                    The dance began, and Drake betook him-self to a
                        vantage-point and watched the throng. Quite unconsciously, his attention
                        concerned itself with the two figures, mother and daughter, that dominated
                        the scene. Priscilla blew about the room like a bit of thistledown, a white
                        butterfly, as he put it to himself, while Mrs. Martin, regal, imperious,
                        directed and managed it all, as ever, the power and motive force. As the
                        evening wore on he wandered about, smoked, talked, and came back to his
                        comparisons. As he stood watching, after an elaborate figure, he saw Mrs.
                        Martin go to Priscilla and say a word, and then Priscilla, after an apparent
                        moment of hesitation, came to him.
                    "Mr. Drake, mother is going to lead this figure, and I'm to
                        rest. Will you take me away for a bit? I won't have to talk to
                        you," she added, as she took his arm and led him to a seat in the
                        music-room.
                    "Are you having a good time?" he asked, looking down at
                        her.
                    "Oh, splendid!" she answered. "I'd no  idea coming out was like this. It's
                        such fun, and everybody is so nice, and Peter-I mean Mr. Schuyler-dances
                        grandly"
                    "You don't tell me! I have never had my attention called to
                        Peter's grandeur before."
                    "I think he's fine, don't you?"
                    "Yes-but let's talk about you instead of
                        Peter."
                    "Oh, that's the trouble with me-there's never
                        anything to say about me. Doesn't mother look lovely?" she
                        added, catching sight of her as she passed the door.
                    "Yes, she does. She always does."
                    "Yes, but not always like to-night. I think people have heights of
                        looks, like heights of happiness, don't you?"
                    "Do they? I'm afraid I don't notice those things
                        much."
                    "No, I don't think you do-it shows in your
                        books."
                    "Oh, does it?"
                    "Yes, you never make any one want to 
                        see your heroines, because you never care anything about seeing them
                        yourself."
                    He laughed. "What do you know about my heroines?"
                    "I know all about them. I've read all your
                        books."
                    "Poor child. I feel for you."
                    "Now, don't you do it, too."
                    "Do what?"
                    "Laugh at me."
                    "Forgive me--I won't ever again. How did you happen to read
                        my things?"
                    "Well, I found The Soul of Ignace in Paris, and I
                        liked that pretty well, so I got the others. The Soul of
                            Ignace is the best thing you've done."
                    "I agree with you. It was written when I had the most to
                        say."
                    "Were you Ignace?"
                    A dark flush mounted Drake's face, and burnt itself out in his hair.
                        It might have been anger or embarrassment or shame. "
                        'Yes," he answered finally.
                    
                    "I thought so."
                    "No one ever dared to ask me that before," he added.
                    "Perhaps no one ever guessed," she said.
                    "Your mother knows," Drake confessed.
                    "Oh, mother-she knows everything. Isn't she
                        wonderful?"
                    "She's the most wonderful woman I know."
                    "I'm so glad you think so, too. You see I've never
                        had any one to talk to before about mother-any one who would understand, I
                        mean."
                    He nodded.
                    "I don't know why I chatter along this way to
                        you."
                    "I like it," he said simply. "Your mother has
                        played the most important part in my life of any one who has ever come into
                        it."
                    "Has she? How?"
                    "I can't tell you-but she came and hauled me up out of the
                        mire and made a man of me."
                    
                    "I'm so glad mother did that. You see, I used to feel badly
                        sometimes because she never let me stay with her, but all those years she
                        was helping you, and that was better worth while than just helping
                        me."
                    "I'm not so sure of that. Perhaps you could have given her
                        more in return than I ever can."
                    "Oh, well, I should always love her just the same, no matter what
                        she did-she's so wonderful. I don't see how I ever
                        happened to belong to her."
                    Mrs. Martin appeared at the door. "Come along, Lady-bird;
                        it's my time to rest now. Oh, Tony-you're here, are you?
                        Take her along back and then come and talk to me."
                    "Shall I send you in some coffee, mother?"
                    "No, thanks."
                    Mrs. Martin leaned back and closed her eyes. She was glad of the quiet.
                        Priscilla's ball was a great success, but it had been a strain, and
                        she was tired. She al-most envied Priscilla her
                        thrills; but there-she wanted her girl to drink the pleasure of it to the
                        full. How she was stealing into her heart and interest, with her honest eyes
                        and her unrepressed adoration!
                    "Oh, no, he won't-at least, I hope he won't. It
                        would ruin his chances of greatness if he married Louise," came
                        Mrs. Crompton's clear voice from the other side of the divan.
                        "He ought to marry the daughter-he needs just such a spontaneous
                        young thing to stir him up. He's twisted Louise's mind dry
                        of all ideas; and, then, she's too old for him. He doesn't
                        care for society, of course"-the voice dwindled off as the couple
                        disappeared again.
                    Mrs. Martin sat there as if carved in stone. "He ought to marry the
                        daughter-he's twisted Louise's mind dry of all
                        ideas-she's too old for him"-she went over it and over it.
                        How often she had said that Nan Crompton's tongue went to the heart
                        of things, like a surgeon's knife to the seat of a disease. Was she
                        right now? Had she  played her part in
                        Tony's life, and must she march on now and give her place to-
                    "Here I am-why, what's the matter, Louise?" he
                        asked in quick alarm.
                    "Nothing. Why?"
                    "You look as if you'd seen a ghost."
                    "I have."
                    He took her hand with rare tenderness. "You're overdoing
                        lately. Why don't you let me take you away?"
                    "I can't. You remember what we were saying the other day
                        about shifting responsibility, and how Nan Crompton hit the nail on the head
                        by saying that I kept my responsibility in school while I
                        preached?"
                    "Odious woman!"
                    "But it was the truth, Tony, and now I want to make it up to
                        Priscilla-a little. I'm finding out that the shirked
                        responsibilities are coming back to me doubled."
                    "She's been talking to me about you to-night. She seems to
                        adore you."
                    "I know, and I think I'm going to love her better than I
                        have ever loved anything  in my life. I think,
                        perhaps, I am going to give her the thing I hold most dear."
                    "Oh, I don't think you're called on to do
                        that," he said lightly.
                    "Do you think her very sweet, Tony?"
                    "Yes, and interesting, too-strangely interesting."
                    "I want you to like her tremendously."
                    "Of course I'd do that, because she's
                        yours."
                    "No, I want you to because she's herself."
                    "When are you going to answer that question I asked you the other
                        night?"
                    "I don't know. If I answered it to-night, I should say that
                        it can never be."
                    "Then I won't speak of it again until you wish me
                        to."
                    "Thanks. I shall not be long, but it takes some time to face the
                        truth fairly and squarely, and give it welcome."
                    Later, when the house was dark and quiet, Mrs. Martin went to
                        Priscilla's door. The girl sat before the fire, toasting her toes,
                             and at sight of her mother she sprang up
                        joyfully.
                    "Why, mother, how nice of you to come! Sit down here"-she
                        pushed a big chair up-"and we can talk."
                    Mrs. Martin let herself be pushed into the chair, and a pillow placed behind
                        her head, then Priscilla sat down cross-legged on the hearth, facing
                        her.
                    "Wasn't it too lovely, all of it? I'm just trying
                        to begin at the beginning, and remember everything everybody said to me, and
                        how many times I was favored."
                    Mrs. Martin smiled. "I'm glad you had such a good time. You
                        were a great suc- cess, Priscilla. I prophesy that you will be a
                        belle."
                    "Me a belle? Oh, mother, how could I be?"
                    "Modesty is a sort of a disease with you, dear."
                    "I might be just because I'm your daughter, but not because
                        I'm me," she said, leaning her cheek against her
                        mother's hand.  She looked very slight
                        and childish in her white gown, her hair about her face.
                    Mrs. Martin touched a chain she wore about her neck.
                        "What's this?" she said, examining the locket
                        which fell into her hand.
                    Priscilla flushed. "You wouldn't care to know,"
                        she said.
                    "But I do care. May I look?" Mrs. Martin persisted,
                        suspecting some childish love-affair.
                    "If you like," Priscilla whispered. "It is the
                        picture of my pretended best friend."
                    She put her head down, and waited cen- turies while her mother looked, and
                        then she heard a sob-deep, rending, like the breaking up of ice long
                        hardened. She was drawn into her mother's arms, and on her face she
                        felt the rain of tears.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    "THIS day is good enough to put away in sweet
                        lavender and keep for always," said Mrs. Martin, lazily swinging in
                        the hammock, her hands locked under her head. "Tony, how did you
                        ever think of having us all down here? It is too lovely!"
                    "Well, it certainly is time for me to precipitate myself into the
                        social whirl," he answered, smiling; "and you people are
                        witnessing my first feeble strokes."
                    "This is no feeble stroke," interrupted Peter;
                        "this is a headlong dive. The Associated Press ere now, no doubt,
                        has telegraphed the news of this house-party from one end of the civilized
                        globe to the other."
                    At this point Mrs. Crompton appeared, parasol in hand, followed by The
                        Parson.
                    "Where are you going?" Drake inquired.
                    Mrs. Crompton pulled a long face, the  corners
                        of her mouth turned down, her wicked eyes turned up. "We are going
                        out into the wilderness," she said, in a muffled voice;
                        "and there the saintly Parson is to read aloud to me from Thomas
                        à Kempis-or is it Thomas à Becket? I never can get them
                        straight. Also he is to read the Prayers for the
                            Damned."
                    "How cheerful!" murmured Peter.
                    They all laughed, including The Parson.
                    "What are you going to do with the hammock?" demanded Mrs.
                        Martin.
                    "Sit in it," replied the lady promptly.
                    "Both of you?" asked Drake.
                    "Certainly. It can be done with care, you know."
                    "That," said The Parson, "is our concession to
                        things worldly."
                    "You've no idea how nice he looks lying at the other end of
                        the hammock, preaching to me. Oh, even conversion may be made interesting if
                        you just know how to go about "it."
                    "Who's converting whom?" asked Tony.
                    
                    Mrs. Crompton gave him a dazzling smile. "We're converting
                        each other," she replied. "En avant,
                        spiritual pastor and master!"
                    The Parson held the door open for her, and surveyed their smiling faces,
                        smiling himself. "The only question is, which one wins out first in
                        the conversion," he said.
                    Mrs. Crompton's laugh floated back to them as they tramped off
                        woodward.
                    "It really isn't a bad idea-this flirtation of Nan and The
                        Parson," said Mrs. Martin. 
                            
                                "It's all very well for Mary Ann,
                                But a little tough on Abraham,"
                            
                         quoted Peter. "He's too good a sort for her to make a
                        fool of."
                    "I'm not so sure she'll succeed there,"
                        said Drake. "I think she's met her match."
                    "Where's Miss Priscilla?" demanded Peter.
                    "I don't know, I'm sure. She's playing
                        around somewhere," her mother replied.
                        "Priscilla's having a splendid time."
                    "I'm so glad," Drake said sincerely.
                    
                    "I'm not," said Peter. "She treats me
                        like a dog." He slammed the screen door after him, and marched off
                        in search of her.
                    "Do you think Peter is in love with Priscilla?" Mrs. Martin
                        asked idly.
                    A slow red crept into Drake's face, and a look of utter surprise and
                        consternation engraved itself there. "I don't know-I
                        hadn't thought of it-of course, he must be."
                    Mrs. Martin turned and looked at him. "It would be only natural, of
                        course. She's such a dear."
                    "I suppose he's just the sort she would like-jolly and
                        good-looking, and all that."
                    "I don't know. It's hard to tell just what is
                        going on in that queer little head of hers I'm constantly surprised
                        at her good sense."
                    "You're modest."
                    "Oh, no! I came by mine through hard knocks, but hers is
                        instinctive; and such a power of love as she has packed in her heart-it is
                        alarming!"
                    "We'll hope Peter is worthy of it."
                    "I suppose every woman has it-this 
                        power of love," she went on; "and the failure or success
                        of her life depends on her getting the right outlet for it."
                    "The right outlet?"
                    "I mean the right object. It's a question which is the
                        greater tragedy-to squander your whole treasure of love upon a man who is
                        not worthy, or not to find the man at all, and find this power growing and
                        growing, with no outlet, until it fairly chokes out life, or-"
                    "Or?"
                    "To keep it for a man who does not want it."
                    "Yes, that must be the worst of all. But all that belongs to the
                        romantic age. You and I have gone beyond that. You said once about
                        Priscilla-'the obligations of being greatly loved'-they so
                        disturb life."
                    "What do you know about it?" she flung out at him.
                        "You've never loved in all your bloodless
                        life."
                    "Louise!"
                    "I mean just that. You've no right to an  opinion. You've gone along your way,
                        watching, dissecting emotions, and putting the results in books. Well, what
                        of it? What does that amount to-to you, Anthony Drake, the man?
                        You've never leaped to heights undreamed of, and been flung to
                        depths unthinkable, at the merest look of some one you love."
                    "Why, Louise, what's come to you? The cold-hearted advocate
                        of things Platonic!"
                    "Ridiculous, isn't it? I'm making out a case for
                        the other side, you see."
                    "We're too-too settled, you and I, to consider that side
                        now. Fifteen years ago, perhaps-well, we'll do very well without
                        the demands; we'll go abroad and work together, and come out here
                        sometimes in the summer and loaf. Haven't you nearly decided,
                        Louise?"
                    "Yes, I have nearly decided that if there is no bread a stone must
                        do."
                    "Which means?"
                    "Perhaps some day you'll know, Tony, but I hope
                        not."
                    
                    Peter, meanwhile, strolled until he was out of sight, and then he started off
                        on what might be called a purposeful quickstep. He searched among the
                        willows, and she wasn't there; he tried the hilltop, and she
                        wasn't there; then, hot and irate, he made for the edge of the
                        river, and nearly stepped on her, lying flat on her stomach in the grass,
                        looking into the depths of the water.
                    "Well," Peter fairly snorted, "so here you
                        are!"
                    No reply.
                    "I've been all over the country looking for you, and
                        I'm nearly dead with heat and anxiety."
                    "I'm sorry."
                    "Sorry? You don't know what it means. You wouldn't
                        care a rap if I dropped dead at your feet with sunstroke!"
                    "Yes, I would. How would I ever get you home?"
                    He flung himself down dejectedly and watched her. "Why did you give
                        me the slip?"
                    
                    "I didn't. I just came away to be by myself."
                    "Oh, if that's the case, perhaps you'd like me to
                        go?"
                    She considered a moment. "No, I'd just as soon
                        you'd stay-if you won't chatter."
                    "Humph!"
                    He relapsed into enforced silence, and she resumed her scrutiny of the
                        water's depths. Shortly she began to speak softly, as if to
                        herself:
                    "And after awhile the King, who lived in the Palace of Shells, far
                        under the water, grew old and didn't care about anything in the
                        kingdom, so the people threatened to kill him and get a new king. The King
                        went to the Wise Old Woman of the Sea and asked her what to do, and she said
                        that if he could find the Water-Lily Maiden and induce her to give him one
                        drink from her golden goblet, he would grow young again, and all would be
                        well.
                    "Whereupon the King sent out his courtiers to the end of the kingdom
                        to find her.  He sent water-bugs and fish and
                        snakes, and they all searched in vain. At length the King set forth himself
                        on a prancing dolphin, and he rode to all the countries under the sea, but
                        he found her not; he went to the surface of the water and rode clear round
                        the world, but he found her not; and all the time he was growing older and
                        older, and finally he said to the dolphin: 'Take me home to
                        die.'
                    "So the dolphin took him homeward, and just as he was about to
                        descend beneath the water, where the Palace of Shells grew, the King spied a
                        clump of water-lilies, and he cried out to them:
                    "'Know ye where the Water-Lily Maiden dwells who holds the
                        golden goblet?'
                    "And they answered: 'Yes, she lives here in this
                        village.'
                    "So the King entered the village of Water-Lilies, and there on a
                        lily pad, sway- ing with the water's ripple, sat the Water- Lily
                        Maid; and when she saw the King she smiled.
                    
                    "'I've been around the whole world twice, once
                        under sea and once atop,' grumbled the King.
                    "'And I've lived beside your door all the
                        time,' she said to him.
                    " 'Give me to drink of the golden goblet,' he
                        commanded.
                    "''Tis only for the wise to drink,' said
                        she. 'One drop gives supreme happiness, two drops satiety, and
                        three drops death.'
                    "'Give it me!' cried the King.
                    "So she lifted the goblet to his lips, and he drank one
                        drop."
                    "''Tis sweet!' cried the King.
                    "'Beware!' said the Water-Lily Maiden.
                    "She raised it again to his lips, and he drank two
                        drops."
                    "''Tis bitter,' moaned the King.
                    " 'Beware!' cried the Water-Lily Maiden.
                    "Eagerly he seized the cup and drank. three drops, and then the King
                        fell dead of too much joy, even at his own threshold."
                    "What was in the cup?" demanded Peter.
                    "I don't know," she said.
                    
                    "Well, I'll tell you," said Peter, with sudden
                        passion. "It was love-love-love! Oh, Priscilla, unless you come to
                        the rescue, I shall drink three drops and die!"
                    Priscilla sat up and inspected him. "What are you driving
                        at?" she said impatiently.
                    She looked very young, and Peter felt a thousand years old.
                    "Priscilla, did you ever hear of love?"
                    "Of course."
                    "Do you know what it means?"
                    She nodded.
                    "Well, I've got it-I've got it terribly.
                        I'm dying of it."
                    Her face showed swift concern. "Dear me! I'm so sorry,
                        Peter."
                    "Of course I know I'm not good enough for
                        her."
                    Priscilla leaped to a swift conclusion. "No, you're
                        not."
                    " No fellow could be. She's the sweetest thing on
                        earth."
                    "Isn't she?"-warmly.
                    
                    "But I love her so-"
                    "Everybody does," said Priscilla promptly.
                    "Y-e-s, I know," he acknowledged in some surprise.
                    "Well, then, why on earth should she care most for you?
                        You're too young for her, Peter, and you talk too much, and you act
                        so silly sometimes; and, besides, you just simply couldn't be my
                        father!"
                    Peter sprang to his feet. "Your father?" he cried.
                        "Your father? Who wants to be your father?"
                    Priscilla rose, too, and faced him. "I mean that I don't
                        think mother is in love with you."
                    "Well, what of it? You're the only one I care
                        about."
                    "Me?"
                    "Yes, of course."
                    She blushed furiously. "Oh, Peter!" she gasped.
                        "You don't mean--me? I thought-oh,
                        Peter!"
                    She ran away into the woods as fast as  she
                        could go, and Peter gave chase. At the first turn in the woods she plunged
                        into Drake's arms. He stood quietly and held her until Peter was
                        almost upon them.
                    "What is it?" he asked softly, but she only burrowed her
                        head into his coat.
                    "Take me away-take me away from Peter."
                    "Priscilla, I insist upon being treated seriously," said
                        Peter firmly, approaching her, and paying no attention at all to Drake.
                    She raised her head and glared at him. "Go away-go away! I never
                        want to see you again!" she cried.
                    With one groan Peter flung away and disappeared among the trees.
                    "Now, what's it all about?" said Drake.
                    "He's been saying such things to me!" she
                        confessed. "I thought all along he meant mother, and I said such
                        awful things back, and then he meant--me!"
                    "Dear me! I suppose he's in love with you-is
                        he?"
                    
                    "Don't say it! I hate him-it makes me feel so terrible-and
                        grown up."
                    The last tragic words came out with a burst of tears, and poor Drake stood in
                        helpless amazement, wondering what to do. Finally he put his arm about her
                        shoulders and drew her to him, and the yellow head went down on his breast,
                        and then, all at once, a new and utterly unexplainable thrill of happiness
                        went through him and left him trembling.
                    "You're very good," Priscilla sobbed. "I
                        don't feel at all grown up with you."
                    "Thanks-I don't with you, either. You're all right
                        now. Come along and play, and forget about Peter."
                    He led her down to the water's edge again, and found her a seat.
                    "Want some water-lilies?"
                    She nodded. He sat down, took off his shoes and stockings, and waded in.
                    "It's great," he said, grinning back at her.
                        "Come on in."
                    "Lovely! I'll do it!" cried Priscilla, and  jerked off her shoes and stockings, tucked up
                        her skirt, and marched in, with many a squeal of delight.
                    They made fairy boats of the lilies, and sailed large fleets off to the
                        Islands of the Blest. They laughed and called out to each other like
                        veritable children; and in the midst of things Mrs. Martin appeared on the
                        bank and beheld the spectacle.
                    "Why, Priscilla Martin," she gasped.
                        "Tony!"
                    He turned a boyish face to her. "We've just sent off a
                        splendid cargo of poppy seeds and forgetfulness flowers, bound for the
                        Island of Childhood!"
                    "Oh, mother," cried Priscilla, "it's such
                        fun! Come in-do."
                    "No, dear, it is not for old ladies to invite the rheumatism.
                        I've sent my ship from another port-I wonder will our fleets come
                        home again?" she added softly.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    "PRISCILLA MARTIN, what on earth have you done to
                        Peter?" asked Mrs. Crompton abruptly, at the lunch-table two days
                        later. "He acts like Death at the feast."
                    Priscilla cast a sympathetic glance at Peter's solemn fare.
                        "I think Peter doesn't feel very well-do you?
                        It's so hot-"
                    "Hot? Nonsense! It isn't a heat rash that Peter has;
                        it's another disease; isn't it, Peter?"
                    "You ought to recognize the symptoms," he retorted.
                    "It isn't right to tantalize," interposed Drake.
                        "Anybody feel up to an automobile ride after lunch?"
                    "Mercy! Tony, in this heat?" Mrs. Martin protested.
                    "Coolest place you can find," he said.
                    
                    "I'd like to go," volunteered Priscilla.
                    "How about you, Peter?"
                    "No, thank you."
                    "Are you going to use The Parson, Mrs. Crompton? If not,
                        I'll take him."
                    "Take him, and welcome," said she, pushing back her chair;
                        "but don't lead him into mischief."
                    "That's your prerogative, I suppose," said
                        Peter.
                    "Exactly. I'll exercise it on you in his absence, Peter,
                        Peter, Pumpkin-eater."
                    "I think 'I'll wrap the drapery of me couch about
                        me,' and lie down to pleasant dreams," said Mrs. Martin.
                        "It's a fine day to sleep."
                    So The Parson, Priscilla, and Tony set forth in the machine, Priscilla on the
                        front seat with Tony, and The Parson stretched out in perfect comfort on the
                        roomy back seat.
                    "Where shall we go?" Tony asked the girl.
                    "Over there to the sky-line," she an- swered, pointing to where sky and woodland met.
                    He smiled and started. They rode swiftly by the rich valley farms which
                        flanked the road on either side, stretching away to the sky, that shut down
                        over the earth like a lid to a huge pot. The air was hot and vibrant with
                        midsummer noises.
                    "Things feel sort of at their height," Priscilla said.
                    "So they are," Drake answered. "In another day or
                        so we're over the edge and down toward fall."
                    "Too bad things can't ever stay at the
                        height."
                    "You won't think so ten years from now."
                    They were silent for awhile, and when Priscilla looked around, The Parson was
                        asleep.
                    "We're in the Seven League Boots," she said.
                        "We're running away from the Devil to save The
                        Parson."
                    "Poor Mrs. Crompton! Is she the Devil?"
                        Drake laughed.
                    
                    "Oh, no; I quite like Mrs. Crompton, don't you ? She
                        isn't as bad as she acts."
                    "None of us are-that's the saving grace."
                    "Let's go faster; I hear the Devil's
                        foot-steps."
                    "It's dangerous," he warned, letting out the
                        machine a little.
                    "Faster!" she laughed. "I feel his breath on my
                        neck."
                    He laughed and changed the speed recklessly to please her. He wanted to feel
                        her close beside him, and to hear the childish laugh of delight.
                    "Faster! I hear his voice in my ear!"
                    The machine leaped at his hand like a living thing, and then the inevitable
                        happened. Out into the road a baby toddled from a farmyard. Drake threw on
                        the brake, called out, and tried to turn out. It was so sudden an onslaught
                        that the machine did not respond, and the next thing he knew he lay beside a
                        fence, a cold stream trickling down his face. Something near him groaned,
                        and he sat up quickly and crawled  to the heap
                        of clothes lying against the fence. It was Priscilla, and she lay white and
                        still, like a broken flower.
                    "God!" said Drake, and touched her face weakly.
                    "Drake! Drake!" called The Parson from somewhere. He turned
                        and beheld the reverend gentleman struggling from under the upturned car,
                        his head appearing unexpectedly among the cushions.
                    "Drake, if you could get me out I'd be
                        obliged."
                    Drake tried to drag himself to his feet. "In a moment," he
                        said. "Are you hurt?"
                    "I don't know--I think not. Where's Priscilla
                        ?"
                    "There!" Drake almost sobbed.
                    "Is she hurt?" demanded The Parson, renewing his
                        struggle.
                    "I'm afraid so."
                    "We haven't killed her, Drake?"
                    "God forbid!"
                    He finally dragged himself to the side of  the
                        machine and extricated The Parson, who was only shaken up. They went and
                        bent over the girl, who had not moved. The Parson knelt down and listened
                        for her heart-beats. To Drake it was an eon of agony before he nodded.
                    "It beats faintly," he said. "We must get help.
                        You stay here while I go for the farm people."
                    He limped off, and Drake sat down, lifted Priscilla's head into his
                        lap, and sat looking down at her. He didn't touch her, nor speak to
                        her, nor did he mind the steady drip, drip, of blood from his cut head; he
                        just sat and looked at the white face in his lap, and knew what it was to
                        watch joy go; knew what Orpheus felt as Eurydice faded; knew what every man
                        knows who faces the loss of his heart's desire. All the years of
                        his life marched before him-empty-handed because they had not known
                        Priscilla; the years to come approached with bowed heads, for they were not
                        to know Priscilla; and the lit-tle
                        present-in-between, where she had blossomed suddenly, like a morning-glory,
                        grew all radiant with her.
                    Presently The Parson returned with the farmer and his wife, and very gently
                        they lifted her and took her in, Drake following dully. The woman began to
                        work over her, rubbing her hands and dashing water in her face.
                    "I telephoned Mrs. Crompton that we'd had a slight accident
                        and would be home in an hour. She will have the doctor there."
                    Drake assented absently. All he cared about was the flutter of those eyelids,
                        so long quiet.
                    "Let me tie up your head, Drake-it's a bad cut,"
                        said The Parson.
                    Drake pushed him aside and stood by the bed. Slowly, as if creeping back from
                        the dead, Priscilla came to. Her eyes opened at last, and she sighed.
                    "Thank God!" said Drake; and it was a prayer to which The
                        Parson said, "Amen."
                    "Mother!" breathed the girl.
                    
                    "We'll see her presently," said The Parson.
                    "Where am I?"
                    "I na farmhouse. The automobile went into a ditch-"
                    "Oh, yes! The baby?"
                    "It's all right. We didn't touch it."
                    "You're hurt!"
                    "It's nothing. Are you better?"
                    "Yes, yes," she said, and tried to lift her hand to his
                        head, but it hung limp, and she cried out with the pain.
                    Drake groaned as if it were his own.
                    "Tie his-head-up," she ordered.
                    Drake protested.
                    "Please-Tony," she whispered; and he sat still while The
                        Parson and the farm woman washed and bandaged his wound.
                    "Don't tell mother-it will frighten her,"
                        Priscilla said.
                    "She knows we've had a slight accident," The
                        Parson explained. "We're going to try to get you home in a
                        wagon, if you think you can be moved."
                    
                    "Yes, let's go home."
                    They put a mattress into a farm wagon and made her as comfortable as
                        possible, the Parson sitting at her feet, to keep the rough bed steady, and
                        Drake at her head. The farmer drove slowly and carefully. Every once in a
                        while Drake swayed with heat and dizziness, but he pulled himself together,
                        and once or twice, when Priscilla groaned, he came back from some other
                        world, it seemed.
                    "Lie down beside her, Drake. I don't think you can hold
                        out."
                    "I'll hold out," said Drake.
                    It seemed hours before the low bungalow came into view; and when they drove
                        up, Drake saw Mrs. Crompton and the doctor in a mist. The doctor and The
                        Parson lifted Priscilla's bed out and took her indoors. At the
                        threshold of the living-room stood Mrs. Martin, pale and frightened. Drake
                        went in and stood before her.
                    "See what I've done to her," he said.
                    Mrs. Martin glanced at Priscilla's white  face, and then up at the man's hollow eyes and bloody head.
                    "Tony!" she cried. "Tony-you're
                        hurt!"
                    She touched his head with her hand, but he threw it off.
                    "Never mind me," he said roughly. "Look at
                        her."
                    They carried Priscilla up-stairs and put her on her bed, leaving Mrs. Martin
                        and the doctor there. Drake stumbled down-stairs and into his den, where he
                        could be alone. Once there, he put his head in his hands and groaned:
                        "God! she can not die, do you hear me? She can not die!"
                        Over and over he cried out his defiance to the powers of life and death,
                        until it became mechanical.
                    The door flew open and Peter burst in, white-eyed and haggard. "Damn
                        you, Drake!" he cried. "Damn you! You've killed
                        her-you've killed her!"
                    He threw himself down beside the table and burst into tears, but Drake said
                        not a word.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    IT was a week later that Mrs. Martin came into the library,
                        where Mrs. Crompton, Drake, Peter, and The Parson were playing bridge.
                    "How is the patient to-day, Louise?" asked Mrs.
                        Crompton.
                    "Good news! She's so much better that she's to be
                        brought down-stairs for a couple of hours."
                    "Really?" said Drake, rising.
                    "Really?" said Peter, at the same moment on his feet.
                    Mrs. Crompton laughed as they hastily sat down. "I'm
                        thinking some of jumping off the bridge, in order to work up a little
                        interest in my own case," she said.
                    "You don't ever let interest in your own case
                        flag," said The Parson.
                    "Doesn't he do well? I'm going to start a
                        training-school for parsons."
                    
                    "We'll give you a hand when she's ready to be
                        moved," said Drake.
                    "Who's ahead this morning?" asked Mrs. Martin.
                    "The Parson and I are the only ones in our right minds, so it stands
                        to reason we're ahead. Play, Peter."
                    "Oh, is it my play? Well, what is-" he began absently.
                    "For pity's sake, Louise, take Peter's hand and
                        let him moon in peace!" snorted Mrs. Crompton, in high dudgeon.
                    Peter rose, mumbling something about "nagging women"; Mrs.
                        Martin took his place, and the game went on in silence for an hour.
                    Peter fled, and horrified the gardener by cutting all the lilies ruthlessly
                        and carrying them off to the dining-room, where he assembled all the vases
                        in the house and made the rooms bewilderingly sweet.
                    "Poor old Peter!" said Mrs. Martin, watching him.
                    "Hardest attack Peter's had in years. Is  she going to take him?" asked Mrs.
                        Crompton.
                    "Do pay attention," ordered The Parson.
                    Drake threw down his cards. "We none of us are in the humor. Why
                        bore ourselves this way?"
                    "'None of us' meaning Anthony Drake,"
                        snapped Mrs. Crompton. "Peter, those lilies make me
                        sick."
                    Peter grinned. "That's what I put 'em there
                        for!"
                    Mrs. Crompton rose peevishly, then laughed. "Do you remember the
                        little boy who was spanked for being so poor in arithmetic, and how he went
                        to the drug store and asked for a nickel's worth of
                        'rithmetic pills? I wish somebody would give me a bottle of temper
                        tonic."
                    "Come and try a dose of ozone," said The
                        Parson."
                    "All right; come along."
                    They went out, and Mrs. Martin went upstairs, leaving Peter and Drake alone
                        together.
                    
                    "Cigarette?" Drake asked, offering him the box.
                    "'Bliged," answered Peter, lighting up.
                        "Tony, are you in love with Priscilla?"
                    Drake turned angrily. "What right have you to ask me such a question
                        as that?" he demanded.
                    "Maybe I haven't the right-but I want to
                        know."
                    "What difference does it make to you?"
                    "A good deal. I'm in love with her myself, and I
                        don't suppose I'd have much chance against
                        you."
                    "Do you think she loves you?"
                    "I don't know-somtimes I think she does."
                    Drake squared his shoulders and walked to the door. "You
                        needn't worry about me," he said. "I
                        won't interfere with your chances."
                    Peter walked to and fro excitedly after Drake's departure. The field
                        was clear, then; Drake was interested in her only as Mrs. Martin's
                        daughter.
                    
                    "Tony! Oh, Tony!" came a voice from above.
                    Peter went to the foot of the stairs.
                    "Drake's gone out. Anything I can do?"
                    "We're ready to come down now. Do you think you could get
                        Priscilla down alone?"
                    He cleared the steps three at a time.
                    "Try me," he said, and stopped at the apparition of a
                        little figure in a soft white peignoir.
                    "Hello, Peter!" she said, holding out her hand.
                    Peter dropped on his knees and kissed her hand. "I'm so
                        glad, I'm so glad!" was all he could manage to say.
                    "Now, you must get her up very carefully, Peter," said Mrs.
                        Martin. "She mustn't be jiggled at all; and if you should
                        fall down-stairs with her, Peter, I would have you shot."
                    "Go 'way, lady," murmured Peter. He lifted
                        Priscilla as if she were made of fragile china, and if his progress down the
                        stairs  and into the living-room was a trifle
                        slow, one couldn't blame him, for Priscilla's head was on
                        his breast and her arm about his neck. He put her down gingerly on the
                        couch, and looked at her anxiously. "Are you all there?"
                        he asked.
                    "That was splendid, Peter!" she smiled back. "Just
                        as good as flying."
                    "I'll take you up and back again, if you like it,"
                        he said boyishly.
                    "Oh, how sweet it is! Aren't the lilies lovely?"
                        she exclaimed.
                    "Peter did that," said Mrs. Martin, putting another pillow
                        behind her.
                    "How good you are, Peter! Oh, everybody's been so good,
                        it's almost worth getting hurt!"
                    "Don't say such a thing, Baby," said Mrs. Martin,
                        kissing her forehead.
                    "And mother-well, mother has been-has been-mother!"
                        Priscilla added, her eyes shining.
                    "Isn't she pretty? Doesn't she look
                        fine?" Peter said.
                    
                    Mrs. Martin smiled. "Peter, I'll leave you on guard for a
                        bit. I've a note to write and-"
                    "God bless you!" said Peter fervently, and hurried her out.
                        He drew up a chair beside the girl's couch. "Do you know
                        what torture this last week has been to me?" he said.
                    "I suppose it has been hard for all of you," she replied
                        evasively.
                    "But, you see, your mother and I love you the most, so we have
                        suffered the most."
                    "Yes, mother couldn't let me go-this time," she
                        mused.
                    "Priscilla, have you any idea how I love you?"
                    "Oh, Peter, I don't want you to love me! Won't you
                        please not?"
                    "You don't care at all?"
                    "I care a great deal, Peter dear, but-"
                    "Don't say the 'but,' please. Do you
                        think you ever could care? I know I'm not "much, but if
                        you cared about me, Priscilla, I've been thinking what a lot I
                        could do with  myself to make more of a man for
                        you. I'd go to work, and-and-"
                    "Oh, Peter, don't; please don't!"
                        Priscilla put her head down on her arm.
                    "I'm a brute to worry you now with it, Priscilla. Never
                        mind about it, dear. Are you crying?"
                    Mrs. Martin, entering, stopped at the door. "Why, Baby!
                        Peter-what's the matter with you children?"
                    Peter turned away and left them, and Mrs. Martin took Priscilla in her
                        arms.
                    "The idea of his getting you all excited like this! I could spank
                        him! What's he been saying to you, Lady-bird?"
                    "He wants me to love him, and I can't; and I don't
                        want him to love me, and he does," sobbed Priscilla.
                    "Dear me! What a tragedy!" said Mrs. Martin, kissing her
                        hair. "Peter will recover."
                    Priscilla regarded her gravely. "You don't think
                        it's my duty to marry him, do you, mother ? He said that if I did
                        it would  make a new man of him, and
                        he'd go to work-"
                    "My dear, if it was your duty to marry all the men who need your
                        saving touch, this would be a shocking world. Peter's heart will
                        get itself together again, so if you don't want him, send him about
                        his affairs."
                    "Oh!" sighed Priscilla. "I'm so glad
                        it's not my duty."
                    "Hello, there!" cried Mrs. Crompton, swooping down upon
                        them. "How is our heroine?" She kissed Priscilla warmly.
                        "It's fine to have you down, and to note the decorative
                        touch to the room once more."
                    "Where's The Parson?" asked Priscilla,
                        smiling.
                    "I had to leave him in the garden to recover his wounded
                        dignity."
                    "What have you done to him, Nan?" Mrs. Martin inquired.
                    "My dears, would you believe it?-he tried to kiss me out in the
                        garden!"
                    "Oh, dear!" cried Priscilla in horror. Mrs. Martin
                        laughed.
                    
                    "Now, it's one thing to be kissed by a beau in the
                        moonlight," Mrs. Crompton continued; "but by a parson in
                        broad daylight, out in the garden-why, it's a
                        scandal!"
                    "Are you going to spoil everything for my Parson, Mrs.
                        Nan?" demanded the girl.
                    "I can't say-it looks a little like it," Mrs.
                        Crompton answered. "But don't you worry about him,
                        Pussy-cat," she added. "Any man, be he parson or prodigal,
                        can take care of himself in affairs of the heart."
                    She picked up a magazine, nodded to them, and went out on the porch. Mrs.
                        Martin gave Priscilla her book, and then went and threw herself down on the
                        couch at the end of the room, behind the grand piano. All was silent for
                        awhile, and then the door slammed, and Priscilla looked up to see Drake at
                        the door of the living-room. A lightning-like change went over his face, and
                        he took two quick steps toward her.
                    "Priscilla!" he said breathlessly.
                        "Priscilla!"
                    She half rose, and held out both her hands.  In
                        a moment he was beside her, on his knees, her hands held close to his face
                        and lips, and last of all crushed to his breast.
                    "Oh!" said Priscilla, striving to free the moment from its
                        weight of emotion. "I was wondering where you were."
                    "Priscilla, you're well again-you're well
                        again!" he said, with a thrill in his voice that made her
                        wince.
                    "Yes, I'm all right again; are you?"
                    "Oh, yes; it didn't matter about me. But you'll
                        never know what it meant to me to think that perhaps I'd hurt you
                        for good and all. Oh, you'll never know!"
                    "But it was all my fault. I made you go faster and faster. I ought
                        to have suffered, because I was so wickedly silly."
                    "No, I was the one who had the responsibility in hand, and just to
                        please you I took the risk. I ought to have been killed for it," he
                        finished bitterly.
                    She drew her hands away and shook her head. "It's all over
                        now, so let us never speak of it again."
                    
                    He sat down beside her, and she threw herself into conversation.
                        "It'S fine to be down again, and everybody's been
                        so good! Peter carried me down-oh, so carefully!"
                    "Oh, yes, Peter. Where is he?"
                    "He's gone," she said simply.
                    He leaned toward her eagerly. "Priscilla, did you send him
                        away?"
                    "Why, I-yes-that is-"
                    He breathed deeply and rose. "Thank Heaven!" he said
                        softly; then: "You're tired -we're all exciting
                        you."
                    "Well, I am tired," she admitted. "I suppose
                        I'm not as strong as I thought I was."
                    He picked up her book, open on her lap, and began to read aloud softly. She
                        smiled her thanks, and lay back on her pillow, watching him. His strong,
                        lean face showed signs of the past week of anxiety, and a new softness had
                        found place there. His voice went on and on, and then she lost track. Tony
                        looked up and saw that she was asleep. He closed the book over his finger,
                        and sat and looked at her-drank in  the
                        freshness of her-knew an abandon of feeling that he'd never known
                        before.
                    There was a movement from behind the piano, and he turned and faced Mrs.
                        Martin. Not the Mrs. Martin who thirty minutes before had thrown herself
                        down there, but an old, whitefaced, haggard Mrs. Martin, whose dry lips
                        refused to speak. She came slowly and stood beside Priscilla, looking down
                        at her; then she looked at the man, who stood waiting.
                    "You love her ?" she said simply.
                    "Yes," he answered; "I love her."
                    Mrs. Martin leaned over and kissed the sleeping girl, then she went out of
                        the room, swiftly, as one struck with age.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    THE next night Mrs. Martin put the last touches of
                        Priscilla's room to make it comfortable for the night, put out the
                        light, and leaned over to kiss the girl good night. Priscilla threw her arms
                        about her neck and drew her down to her passionately.
                    "Lie down beside me a little, mother, and let's
                        talk," she said.
                    Without a word Mrs. Martin obeyed, kissing the hand that soothed her face and
                        brow.
                    "Mother, do you remember how sorry you were when I came home to
                        stay? How you didn't want me?"
                    "Yes, I remember."
                    "But now you do want me, don't you, mother?" She
                        slid into the circle of her mother's arms, sure of her welcome.
                    "Yes, sweetheart, now I want you. You 
                        are making up to me for a great many barren years."
                    "Mother, you never speak about my father. Did you love
                        him?"
                    "No, not after the first six weeks of living with him," she
                        admitted bitterly. "That's the reason I didn't
                        want you. I suppose you were a reminder. Not that that excuses my
                        neglect," she added.
                    "I don't mind now. Of course I hate to think of all those
                        years we missed together; but I loved you so, that if you'd never
                        cared at all, it would have made no difference in my feeling."
                    "I am the one who has lost, dear-all your sweet freshness, your new
                        interests, your revivifying youngness. I shall have to make up for my wilful
                        loss in the years to come."
                    The arms clung closer in the darkness. "You love me enough to make
                        me your friend now, don't you, mother?"
                    "Of course, dear."
                    
                    "Could you tell me what it is that has come to you these last two
                        days?"
                    Mrs. Martin stirred uneasily. "Come to me?"
                    "Yes; all day to-day and yesterday I've felt as if
                        something has gone out-a light in you, mother-I don't know how to
                        say it."
                    "I have not been well to-day; the strain and anxiety of the week has
                        told on your old lady mother."
                    Priscilla felt hat her question had been evaded. "'Old lady
                        mother!' My most beautiful lady!" she protested.
                        "Mother, I want to ask you about Mr. Drake."
                    "Well, dear, what of him?"
                    "You like him very much, don't you?"
                    "Yes, I like him very much, Priscilla."
                    "The Parson told me, when I first came home, that you made Mr.
                        Drake."
                    "That's absurd, dear. No one makes a great man;
                        he's born."
                    "But you helped him?"
                    "Yes, I helped him."
                    
                    "I thought at first that perhaps you cared for each
                        other."
                    Mrs. Martin turned her head on the pillow as if it burned her. "We
                        did-we do- we care for each other greatly; we're fast
                        friends," she said, trying to be casual.
                    "Yes, I see now that it was only that, but I thought at first-it
                        seemed as if he must want you for always, to help in his work."
                    "He doesn't need me any longer for his work."
                    "But it doesn't seem fair for you to have helped him to be
                        great, and then that-that some one else should have his life when he is great."
                    "That's the way of the world, Priscilla."
                    "Mother, he says he loves me. I don't know what to
                        do." She clung to her mother as if she faced some great danger.
                    "Do you love him, Priscilla?"
                    "I don't know. I think he's the most wonderful
                        person I know-next to you."
                    "He asked you to marry him?"
                    
                    "Yes; he wants me to go abroad with him."
                    "Mrs. Martin caught her breath painfully. "And you
                        said?"
                    "I'm not sure just what I said, but I remember I told him I
                        couldn't possibly go away without you."
                    Mrs. Martin laughed harshly.
                    "So he said we'd take you, too, of course."
                    The woman got up and went to the window and flung the curtain high, and put
                        her hand to her throat, as if she choked. Presently she turned and said
                        quietly:
                    "That was very sweet of you both, but, of course, I
                        couldn't go."
                    "Then I won't. I don't want to
                        think of it, anyway."
                    "But you must think of it, you must think of it," Mrs.
                        Martin repeated, coming to sit on the edge of the bed. "It is not
                        as it was with Peter; this is the treasure of a mature man, hoarded long and
                        grown heavy with concealment. You must not tamper  with Tony's love. If you want it, take it; if not,
                        you must let him go."
                    "But, mother, how could I fill his life? Little, stupid me married
                        to that great man! Suppose he should get tired of me; suppose he should
                        expect me to help him the way you did, and I couldn't! I'd
                        die of the shame of it."
                    "He's offered you his love; never mind about anything
                        else."
                    "He frightened me so! He's so quiet usually, but to-day he
                        was-he was like somebody else; somebody fierce and breathless and
                        frightened."
                    Mrs. Martin sat still several moments before she spoke. "This
                        experience has come into his life late, to make or mar it. It is a terrible
                        responsibility for the woman, Priscilla, but I know you are equal to it, if
                        you love him."
                    "You think it would be a good thing for "him to
                        marry?"
                    "I think it is a tremendous thing for him to love!"
                    
                    "Mother, do you want me to marry him?"
                    Silence.
                    "Do you, mother?"
                    Mrs. Martin went to the window again, and came back. "I want the
                        happiness of you two people more than anything on earth. If it is to come to
                        you through each other, then I want to see you married."
                    "If you'd like it, mother, I'll marry
                        him."
                    "You must be sure of yourself, Priscilla. It would be very terrible
                        if a child of mine should fail him," she added, half to
                        herself.
                    "Oh, I want so to please you both, mother-you and him. You are the
                        two people I admire the most. But I don't see how I could bear it
                        to go away from you. We'll all have to live together,
                        won't we?"
                    "We'll see, dear, when the time comes. I think
                        I'll go now-I'm a little tired." She gathered the
                        girl into her arms and kissed her tenderly. "I hope this man may
                        bring all the happiness to you, my girl, that I haven't brought,
                        and I hope you'll give all  the
                        happiness to him that I couldn't bring," she added
                        softly.
                    "Oh, mother, don't-it makes me cry. It's just as
                        if you were saying good-by to something."
                    "It's sort of good-by to my little girl."
                    "No, no-not for a long time yet."
                    "Good night, sweet one."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    MRS. CROMPTON tiptoed down the hall to the top of the
                        stairs, and there she met The Parson, also tiptoeing. She laughed, nodded,
                        and offered him her hand, which he promptly kissed. Together they slipped
                        down the stairs silently.
                    "Mercy!" said Mrs. Crompton. "Isn't it
                        creepy at this hour? I never was up so early in my life."
                    "It's fine," he answered; "you have room
                        to breathe. Now, here's the fishing-tackle, the poles, and the
                        bait, and I've got a few sandwiches, in case we're late in
                        getting in. You might take the poles."
                    "Yes, I suppose it would be civil, but I must say I do hate to carry
                        things, and I. feel sort of sickly within. I think I'm going to
                        regret this."
                    
                    "Not at all; you'll be all right when you get out into the
                        air."
                    "Where's the sun? Isn't it time for it?"
                        she asked, as they set out.
                    "Yes, it's time, but he hasn't appeared yet. A
                        cloudy day, you know, means fisherman's luck."
                    "How far is it to the place we're going to
                        fish?"
                    "Oh, about a mile and a half."
                    Mrs. Crompton heaveda gentle sigh. "I don't think
                        you'll ever be able to make a sportsman of me,
                        Parson."
                    "My dear madam, when once the fascination of angling has taken
                        possession of your soul, physical discomforts will be as
                        naught."
                    "I doubt it. Nothing has ever so taken possession of my soul that
                        discomforts counted for naught."
                    "Then you are facing a new experience."
                    "Well, that's some compensation."
                    The Parson breathed rapturously. "Just breathe in that air, and see
                        how fresh everything looks, and be content."
                    
                    "The air's all right, but it's just as good later.
                        I've no patience with these people who think that nature
                        isn't fit to be seen after eight in the morning. It's very
                        narrow-minded, I think. It seems to me distinctly dreary at this
                        hour."
                    "Early to bed and early to rise, you know."
                    "No wonder it's counted a virtue; it's
                        disagreeable enough to be one!"
                    The Parson stopped. "Very well, we'll go back." He
                        started to retrace his tracks.
                    "Oh,no, now we're started-"
                    He kept on. "Come along-back we go. I'd no idea my little
                        pleasure-party would prove such a burden."
                    "It isn't-only you mustn't expect me to be
                        good-natured at this hour. Wait, Parson!" she called after him, but
                        he kept straight ahead. Mrs. Crompton hesitated one moment, and then gave
                        chase. "Please wait!" she called,
                        hurrying after.
                    There was a perceptible slowing up in The Parson's gait.
                        "We'll get back for breakfast," he said
                        cheerfully.
                    
                    "But I don't want to go back for breakfast; I want to go on
                        and fish."
                    "You've done nothing but complain since we started, so
                        we'd better go back."
                    "Give me the basket and I'll go fishing alone,"
                        she commanded.
                    "Not at all. I want to go fishing."
                    "So do I. Please-please, dear Parson, let us go
                        fishing."
                    He stopped and faced her sternly. "Will you do your part of the
                        work?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Will you put up with the discomforts without
                        grumbling?"
                    "Y-e-s. Can't I give just one little kick?"
                    He picked up the basket and started off again.
                    "All right, all right, I won't!" she cried,
                        seizing his arm.
                    "Very good," said The Parson. "Now we'll
                        go fishing."
                    They turned and started in the other direction.
                    
                    "'Turn again, Whittington, Lord Mayor of
                        London,'" said Mrs. Crompton softly.
                    Then they both laughed. "You're a very nice
                        woman-sometimes," said The Parson, "but in great need of
                        training."
                    "Oh!" exploded Mrs. Crompton.
                    In due time and without further recrimination they arrived at the part of the
                        river where fish abounded. The Parson fitted up the poles and turned to Mrs.
                        Crompton. "Pass over a handful of bait," he said.
                    Mrs. Crompton opened the bucket and promptly dropped it, whereupon a writhing
                        mass of worms squirmed at her feet, and she fled.
                    "Oh, drat it!" said The Parson, on his knees, shoveling
                        them back. "I forgot you were a woman."
                    "How can you!" she protested.
                        "Why don't you shovel them in with the lid of the
                        bucket?"
                    "They don't bite, you know," he assured her,
                        baiting her hook. "Now we'll throw  in our lines and walk along the shore until we get a good
                        place."
                    "Not at all," said she; "I'11 get a com-
                        fortable rock and sit there, and let the fish come to me."
                    She acted on this decision, much to The Parson's amusement.
                    "Would you like a book?" he derided.
                    "The brook is my book-this day's sermons
                        in stones."
                    "I shall fish up-stream. When you get tired, follow."
                    "But suppose I get a bite?" she called after him.
                    "You won't-there. But if you do, haul it in, take of the
                        fish, and rebait."
                    "But I couldn't-I wouldn't rebait for a thousand
                        dollars."
                    "Then come along with me and fish," he answered.
                    Mrs. Crompton rose slowly, wrath in her eye. She was used to the brand of
                        cavalier whose whole thought was for her comfort and pleasure. In fact,
                        comfort and pleas-ure were Mrs.
                        Crompton's household gods, to whom she offered constant libation.
                        Consequently, The Parson's nonchalant indifference to her wishes
                        piqued and interested her as much as it irritated her--or a little more. She
                        followed him slowly. "I feel like a squaw!" she called to
                        him.
                    "Won't hurt you," he called back. "I
                        promised you a new sensation. Take care of that rock-it's
                        slippery."
                    Alas for Mrs. Crompton!-the warning came too late. She stepped on the edge of
                        the slippery rock, plunged forward, full length, and dug her arms into the
                        soft, mucky bank up to the elbows, saluting Mother Earth with her forehead.
                        With a shout of dismay, The Parson flew to the rescue. He had fairly to dig
                        her out, and, strange to say, the voluble Mrs. Crompton was.absolutely
                        silent-whether from rage or pain he couldn't make out.
                    "Are you hurt, Nan?" he asked anxiously.
                    "Hurt? Hurt?" she blazed. "Can you look at me and
                        ask if I'm hurt?"
                    
                    She held out her blackened arms and lifted a strangely mottled face.
                    "But where? But where?" he reiterated anxiously.
                    "In my feelings, of course. Do you suppose anybody could look like
                        this and not be hurt?"
                    He got a flat stick and began to scrape her off, solemnly. His expression
                        suddenly struck her, and she sat down on the rock and laughed until the
                        tears came.
                    "I'm so sorry-" he began, in alarm at this
                        mirth.
                    "You look it," she said, with another out-burst.
                    "We'll go straight home," he promised.
                    "We'll do nothing of the sort. Would you mind fishing out
                        my shoe over there?"
                    She pointed to a partly submerged object, and he waded in and rescued it,
                        scraping it carefully before returning it.
                    "I am so sorry," he protested again.
                    "You poor old dear, don't you bother," she said.
                        "It was a case of pride coming 
                        before-and the fall was awful. But I'm going to catch a fish now,
                        if I stay a week."
                    "Really?" he cried. "Oh, Nan, you're the
                        real thing!"
                    "And that from the Right Reverend-"
                    "Don't! Give us your hand and come along."
                    "We'd better wash the hand first. You hold on to my feet,
                        so I won't go in head first."
                    Whereupon The Parson laid hold of Mrs. Crompton's feet, and she hung
                        over the edge of the rock and washed her hands and sleeves.
                    "If any one sees us we're compromised for life,"
                        she said.
                    "Birds and bees don't gossip," he answered.
                    They got up and away again, and this time The Parson looked after his partner
                        carefully.
                    "I'm glad I tumbled," she said;
                        "you're so much nicer to me."
                    They fished for awhile with no success,  and
                        then, when hope was almost dead, they struck a place where they were biting.
                        Mrs. Crompton almost repeated her plunge when she got her first bite. After
                        that she was insatiable. Even The Parson had no fault to find. Finally he
                        looked at his watch.
                    "Do you know that it's one o'clock?" he
                        cried.
                    "One? You don't mean it!"
                    "I do. Let's stop and eat the sandwiches."
                    "By all means-I'm starved."
                    So they picnicked under the trees, like ravenous children, laughing and
                        comparing notes. Then they were off and at it again, until The
                        Parson's weather eye warned him that they were in for a storm. He
                        insisted upon turning back toward the farm, although Mrs. Crompton was for
                        risking all for the joy of another bite. It grew blacker and blacker, and
                        they finally took in their lines and hurried toward home. The lightning
                        crashed down among the trees, and the thunder filled the woods.
                    
                    "Let's run for it," said The Parson, when they
                        came in sight of the stables.
                    "All right," said Mrs. Crompton, and started. The poles she
                        carried caught in things, and the string of fish flopped about The
                        Parson's legs; but they kept on, and just as they reached the
                        clearing the storm broke.
                    "Make for the dog-house!" shouted The Parson; and they
                        tumbled into it, much to the consternation of the resident puppy
                        families.
                    "Well," said Mrs. Crompton, sinking on the floor in a heap,
                        "if I don't die right here of heart-disease, I miss my
                        guess. Why, I haven't run like that for twenty years."
                    "You did splendidly," said The Parson, sitting beside
                        her.
                    "There really isn't room for you," she
                        protested.
                    "Very well, put out the pups, then," he replied.
                    "You look perfectly frightful," she said, inspecting
                        him.
                    
                    "I don't doubt it-so do you. And yet I never saw you look
                        so sweet!"
                    "Is that a compliment or an insult?"
                    "Now you look like-you! Not the fashionable Mrs. Crompton, nor the
                        clever Mrs. Crompton, but just Nan Crompton, the sweetest woman in the
                        world."
                    "Don't! I feel very young and reckless at this
                        moment."
                    "Good! Then put your hand in mine, dear woman, and say that you will
                        make me happier than I ever dreamed of being."
                    "I can't-I simply cannot--marry a parson. I've too
                        much sense of humor."
                    "I don't ask you to marry a parson-I ask you to marry
                        me."
                    "Aren't you the same?"
                    "No, the parson is a type, and I am a man."
                    Just here a terrific crash of thunder shook the dog-house, and Mrs.
                        Crompton's head was buried on The Parson's breast. Here it
                        seems well to draw the curtain. Somewhat later Mrs. Martin and the rest of
                        the  party saw a strange sight. Approaching
                        across the garden came the irreproachable Mrs. Crompton, hatless,
                        bespattered with mud, wading along through the wet grass; behind came The
                        Parson, a large straw hat hanging limply about his neck. They laughed and
                        "squashed" along through the water, apparently oblivious
                        of onlookers.
                    "Mon Dieu, Nan!" cried Mrs. Martin, as
                        they came up, "where have you been?"
                    "Fishing," replied that lady.
                    "Catch anything, Parson?" asked Tony.
                    The Parson put down his burdens and faced them all boyishly. "Yes,
                        dearly beloved; I caught a wife."
                    But Mrs. Crompton was nowhere to be seen.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    PRISCILLA wandered aimlessly between the close-cut hedges
                        of her garden; idly trailed her hand in the fountain where Aphrodite
                        disported herself; took up her book and sat for a few moments on the
                        terrace; gazed at the blue Italian sky, and sighed. "Oh, dear, I
                        wish he would get through with it!"
                    "It" was Anthony's book, at which he was working
                        heart and soul, early and late; and it was the only cloud in the clear sky
                        of Priscilla's happiness. She called the book her rival, and
                        sometimes openly rebelled at the time her husband spent with it and away
                        from her. But he was so filled with it, and he made up to her for his
                        neglect in so many gentle ways, that she bore it as patiently as possible
                        even though the days were long and lonely.
                    
                    The Drakes had been in Italy nearly a year now, delightfully situated in an
                        old Italian palace, with a wonderful garden. Anthony called it
                        "Priscilla's garden," and threatened to write a
                        poem thereon. Priscilla, however, found herself rebelling sometimes at the
                        very perfection of their life. Her young, restive spirit longed for change,
                        or for the old conditions of life at home in America. Then, too, her
                        mother's letters of late seemed to hint at a loneliness too deep
                        for words, and a want which none but Tony and Priscilla could fill.
                    The year had brought slow but steady changes in Priscilla. The child whom
                        Anthony Drake had married had blossomed into a woman during the days spent
                        so much alone, and slowly into her life had come a love for Anthony so great
                        and all-absorbing that it frightened her. She thought with wonder of the
                        childish affection she had given him at the time of their marriage, and she
                        shuddered away from the thought that she had married him mainly to please
                        her  mother, who had seemed to wish it so
                        strongly.
                    A servant interrupted her thoughts. "Will you have the tea on the
                        terrace, madame?"
                    "No, bring it to the pergola in fifteen minutes, please,"
                        she replied, and walked slowly down the steps and through the garden. She
                        stood silently between the pillars of the pergola and waited. Anthony had a
                        desk here in this quiet place, and here the book was being written. He
                        worked now in a very fury of speed and excitement. He did not hear nor see
                        Priscilla at all. Page after page was completed and tossed aside. The
                        servant appeared with the tea, and she motioned him to set it down in
                        silence. Anthony wrote in a very frenzy of effort; Priscilla thought she had
                        never seen him so uncontrolled. At last he threw down the pencil and
                        stretched his arms straight above his head, with a deep sigh, as of a man
                        coming out of a trance.
                    "Thank Heaven!" he said, and then he  saw his wife. "Dearest, it's finished,
                        it's finished!" he said boyishly, coming to her. He took
                        her in his arms, and she almost sobbed.
                    "Oh, Tony, I'm so glad! I'm so glad!"
                    He put her aside and began to pace up and down, in his excitement.
                        "It's a big book, Priscilla; it's a great
                        book!"
                    "Tony, I hate it!" she cried, and all the concentrated
                        loneliness and jealousy of the last ten months came out in the outburst.
                    He turned suddenly and looked at her in astonishment-at her flushed face and
                        tense body. He went to her quickly. "What is it, Priscilla? What is
                        it you hate?"
                    "The book. It takes all your thoughts and time and hopes; there is
                        no room for me."
                    "Priscilla!" he said, and drew her into his arms again.
                        "Tell me what you mean."
                    "All day long I have to wait for you to be through with it. I sit
                        and sit, and try to be patient, but I want you so, and I want to talk to
                        you, and I'm so lonesome."
                    
                    "Heart's dearest," he said, "I never
                        knew, I never thought! To me the inspiration of the hours we spent together
                        had to have its outlet; all that you awakened in me, dear, that I had never
                        dreamed of, had to come to fruition, and it has blossomed in this book-this
                        book that is you! Dear, I'll burn'the book, if that will
                        be atonement;" he said it solemnly, like a father offering to
                        sacrifice his child.
                    "Oh, my dear, my heart of hearts, don't say such a thing!
                        Don't say anything more. I didn't mean it-it just came out
                        in spite of me. Oh, Tony, it's just as I feared! I'm not
                        worthy, I'm not worthy."
                    "Worthy, Priscilla? Don't!"
                    "I'm only a hindrance."
                    "Priscilla, you hurt me more than you know."
                    She drew his face down to her and kissed his forehead, his eyes, and, last of
                        all, his lips. "Forgive me, and love me, Tony-love me half as well
                        as I love you, and I'll be satisfied." She went to the
                        tea-table, and mo-tioned him to his place.
                        "Come and get your tea--you're tired out."
                    "I feel as if something had burst in my head, and the
                        relief-you've no idea how great it is!"
                    She passed him his tea and poured her own. "I'm so glad,
                        dear, for you. And now I've a suggestion to make."
                    "I'm all ears, madame."
                    "I've had a letter from mother to-day."
                    "Did you? Good! Lord! if she were only here to-night!"
                    She glanced at him wistfully. "Yes, if she only were! It's
                        a very ostensibly cheerful letter, but very lonely between the lines, and so
                        I say, let's go home to mother."
                    "All right; there's no reason why we
                        shouldn't-now," he said promptly.
                    She leaped to her feet. "Tony-really?" she cried
                        joyously.
                    He looked at her curiously. "Has it been as bad as that, my
                        wife?"
                    "Bad? No, it's perfect-almost. I'm just homesick
                        and mother-sick."
                    
                    "When shall we go?"
                    "Tony, you're such a dear! Let's go right
                        away-next week-and surprise her."
                    "Whenever you say. I can scarcely wait to get the manuscript into
                        her hands," he added.
                    While the shadows lengthened, and the sun went down behind the yew-trees in
                        the garden, they sat hand in hand and planned their homeward journey.
                    "It's as good as planning our honeymoon, isn't it?
                        I never knew before how much I could miss mother," Priscilla
                        said.
                    "I never knew before how much I could miss her," Tony
                        added.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    MRS. MARTIN sat on the couch, the chapters of
                        Tony's book about her. Drake himself walked nervously about the
                        room. She had been silently tearing out the heart of it for hours, and he
                        had been on the rack, awaiting judgment.
                    Priscilla came in and out, watching them curiously, but they paid no
                        attention to her. She felt the atmosphere charged with the same excitement
                        that had surrounded Anthony that day she watched him put the finishing
                        touches to the book. Indeed, there was the same strain in her
                        mother's quick breathing, and the way she tossed aside page after
                        page as she read them. Priscilla stood at the door, like a child shut
                        out.
                    Mrs. Martin read the last word and sat like one in a dream, and Anthony came
                        and stood before her, waiting. She rose slowly  and looked at him, her eyes shining, her heart in her face, her hands
                        outstretched.
                    "Oh, Anthony, Anthony!" she said softly, "you are
                        redeemed!"
                    He took her hands and bent his forehead on them, and drew in his breath
                        sharply in a sob of relief. Then he turned and went past Priscilla
                        swiftly.
                    She stood a moment, tottering, like one dazzled by a sudden stroke of
                        lightning, then she walked to the couch and faced her mother. The glory
                        still rested on Mrs. Martin's face.
                    "Mother, mother!" Priscilla whispered in horror.
                    Mrs. Martin looked at her absently.
                    "Mother-you love Anthony!"
                    Mrs. Martin started as if struck.
                    "You do--I saw it then, a moment ago, in your face!"
                    "Well?"
                    "You don't deny it?"
                    Mrs. Martin looked her daughter squarely in the eye, measuring her.
                    
                    "No, Priscilla, I don't deny it."
                    "And you have loved him all along?"
                    "Yes, I've loved him all along."
                    Priscilla blazed out in a fury of rage.
                    "How dared you? How dared you?" she said. "You
                        gave me to him. I never would have thought of marrying him if you had not
                        wanted me to. I didn't love him at all when you married me to
                        him."
                    "Well?"
                    "And now I've grown to love him as I never loved anything
                        in my life, not even you, our love is the-the most wonderful thing in the
                        world-and now you-you-"
                    "Well?"
                    "I can't give him up to you, mother; I can't, I
                        can't!"
                    "There is no need of any such talk between us. If you will listen to
                        me-"
                    "I can't-my heart is broken. Why, all my love for you is
                        just a sword to stab you with, and my love for him is-"
                    Mrs. Martin put her hand on Priscilla's arm and drew her down beside
                        her. "Now,  listen. It seems best
                        that thhere should be truth between us at last. Years ago, when Tony first
                        began to monopolize my life, I knew that I loved him, and after a year of
                        bitter suffering I realized that he did not love me. After awhile I grew to
                        believe that even a love that is unreturned was better than no love at all.
                        Then you came, and battered down the ramparts I had so carefully built
                        around my heart, and crept inside. There was only room for you and Tony.
                    "It was fate, I suppose, that decreed that Tony should fall in love
                        with you. I had given him all there was in me, mentally and emotionally, and
                        now it was left me to give him-you. I knew he had come to the time when he
                        needed this tardy awakening. You were young, impressionable, fond of him. I
                        was not sure that you could fill his life alone, but I could help you,
                        always hiding my secret. There was no sacrifice of you,
                        Priscilla."
                    "No, there was not," she admitted; "but  you loved him then-why didn't you
                        marry him?"
                    "Because he didn't love me, and he needed love to make him
                        what he is to-day-what you have made him."
                    "But what of us, mother?"
                    "We loved him, and what is loving but giving?"
                    "He asked you to be his wife, mother?"
                    "Yes."
                    "And you let me, when you loved him
                        so?"
                    "Yes."
                    "Did you think of my happiness, mother?"
                    "Yes. I knew you would grow to be-what you are, dear. I knew what
                        your power of love could do for him, and what it would do for you. You have
                        been happy, Priscilla?"
                    "Happy? Oh, mother, there is no word-"
                    "I know-I am so glad."
                    "But now what are we going to do?"
                    "To do? Need we do anything? I ask only for whatever place in your
                        lives you can  spare me-you and Tony, you two
                        people whom I love dearest and best."
                    "But, dear, doesn't Tony know?"
                    "No, and he must never know."
                    "Perhaps if I had never come home at all you might have had this
                        happiness."
                    "Priscilla, don't make me regret that I have laid my soul
                        bare to you."
                    Priscilla touched her mother's hand with her cheek. "You
                        gave your happiness to me! I'd like to give mine all to
                        you."
                    "It was not meant for me. Some of us grow to our full height through
                        joy and fulfilment, some through suffering and renunciation."
                    "But does growth count without the joy?"
                    "Can you ask me that, dear, when you see the serenity of my life,
                        now grown big with loving?"
                    "I wonder if my joy will bring me to the height you've
                        reached!"
                    "You should go farther, with your husband's help, and as
                        for him, you've brought him to his own-"
                    
                    "Not I, mother, but you and I-we've done it
                        together."
                    "Yes, the redemption of Anthony has come through love, and since his
                        greatness means so much to the world, perhaps we were put here just for
                        that."
                    "What's that about Anthony?" Drake asked, coming
                        in and throwing himself down beside them.
                    "It's mostly love-about Anthony," Priscilla
                        said.
                
                THE END 
            
        
    
