
     ----CITATION---- 
        Elmore, James B. (James Buchanan),
                        1857-1942. Twenty-five Years in Jackville: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3881
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    JAMES B. ELMORE
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    Twenllty-five Years in Jackville
                    A ROMANCE IN THE DAYS OF "THE GOLDEN
                        CIRCLE" AND SELECTED POEMS
                
                BY JAMES BUCHANAN ELMORE Author of " Love
                    Among the Mistletoe and Poems, " A Lover in Cuba and
                    Poems," etc.
                
                    ALAMO, IND.
                    PUBISHED BY THE AITTHOR
                    1904
                
            
            
            
                Copyrighted by JAMES B. ELMORE1903
            
            
            
                Preface.
                
                    I give the'world this book of nature.
                    Though its characters seem so queer,
                    Glowing sweet in childish stature,
                    It is ever to me dear.
                    If you love an old, old story
                    Of a decade passed and gone,
                    Come with me, refresh your mem'ry
                    In the cadence of my song;
                    Learn the annals of a people
                    That have made a place sublime;
                    Let their mem'ry ever ripple
                    Through the corridors of time.
                    Green are graves of hardy warriors
                    Once that stalked in knightly gear.
                    They were happy, ever joyous,
                    Laughing at the thought of fear.
                    Now I give to you the story
                    They have handed down to me.
                    Pale and wan, their heads are hoary;
                    Read their life and joyous be.
                
            
            
            
                Index
                
                    Preface 5
                        
                    Twenty-five Years in Jackville 9
                        
                    Football at Wabash 154
                        
                    Childhood at School 155
                        
                    The Flock I Tended 156
                        
                    "Ben-Hur" 157
                        
                    A Symbol of a City 158
                        
                    The Wavelard Scribe 159
                        
                    The Hope We Cherished 160
                        
                    Let a Little Sunshine In 161
                        
                    The Stolen Book 163
                        
                    To a Friend, Ira D. Goss, a Senior in Wabash College 163
                        
                    I Am Walking in His Glory 163
                        
                    The Round Table 164
                        
                    Good Night 165
                        
                    Acrostic 167
                        
                    The Long-haired Horseweed of the Wabash 167
                        
                    Beautiful Ladoga 170
                        
                    The Four Poets 171
                        
                    Two Little Pets 172
                        
                    Ode to America 173
                        
                    Autographs 175
                        
                    A Dismal Shadow 175
                        
                    Darling Maudy 178
                        
                    The Truth 179
                        
                    A Teacher's Dream 180
                        
                    
                    Have You Seen Smallpox? 182
                        
                    Who Has Stolen Nellie's Heart? 184
                        
                    When to Plant Corn 185
                        
                    Autographs 186
                        
                    What is Mind? 188
                        
                    King Pharaoh and the Locusts 189
                        
                    A Soldier of the Philippine Islands 191
                        
                    The Ones that Sing 192
                        
                    Launching the Boat 193
                        
                    The Indianapolis News 194
                        
                    The Golden Rule 195
                        
                    Classic DePauw 196
                        
                    Professor Coombs in Love 198
                        
                    Little Yellow Breast 199
                        
                    When the Dinner Bell Rings 200
                        
                    The Old Cottage Home 202
                        
                    The New York Sun 205
                        
                    A Little Star 206
                        
                    The Meeting of the Scribes 208
                        
                    Ancient Heralds of Spring 210
                        
                    The Banquet 212
                        
                    Prologue to "A Lover in Cuba " 212
                        
                    Poor John LeRoy 213
                        
                    Whither Are We Drifting? 213
                        
                    L'Envoi 215
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            Twenty-five Years in Jackville
                
                    Twenty-five Years in Jackville.
                    
                        CHAPTER I.
                        In the beginning " God said, Let there be light: and there was
                            light," except in Jackville, where the vine-clad hills threw
                            their balmy shade over the rippling streams, whose waters went babbling
                            and murmuring and leaping onward to a farther destination. There was
                            absolute stillness, quietude, in the place, save for the wild animals as
                            they stealthily crept about hunting their prey. But man, the despoiler
                            of these quaint precincts of nature, came along seeking a habitation and
                            rest; so in the year 1833 was commenced the settlement of the now
                            historic town of Jackville. It is queer to note that the first settlers
                            of the place bore titles of honor and distinction, such as "
                            Capt. George Bowman," "Col. .George McClain,"
                            and " Capt. John Hybarger." The first house in
                            Jackville was built by William Guilliams, and Judge Thomas Glenn
                            surveyed and platted the town. "Jackville" was so
                            named by reason of its rough, rugged surroundings, suggesting the nature
                            of the once famous President Andrew Jackson, whose honesty and sincerity
                                 are never questioned. Captain Bowman
                            was killed in a dashing horse race by the horses' colliding,
                            but he left a noble progeny to future ages.
                        The hills and the valleys were great retreats for the troop of children
                            from each family domicile, and they made merry and enjoyed life around
                            the placid family vine and fig tree. In this rural place these children
                            grew to manhood and womanhood. The air was free, the water was free, and
                            man's rights were untrammeled; and it is not to be wondered at
                            that if any one should cross the path of these titled men there would be
                            a clash of arms. The blood that coursed through their veins was like
                            that of a Jackson, and at a flash friendships were broken. These people
                            were of Dutch descent, and were given to the use of lager beer, and, in
                            its absence, resorted to the high "wines" of the
                            golden corn, which nerved their sturdy arms to many daring deeds. Each
                            bubbling spring had its copper still, the stills numbering, in all,
                            about twenty-one; and in the absence of cow's milk, whisky was
                            served in its stead; and, with a little boneset decoction, it was a
                            terror to chills and fever.
                        This place was the home of a man, Boss Harlow, who once owned the land
                            where the city of Cincinnati now stands. He was a noted cobbler, and ran
                            a repair shop.
                        The children of this hardy race grew in beauty and symmetry, and all
                            joined in the sports of the times. In 
                            those days it was the custom to have shooting matches, where the
                            champion shot would take the prize; and generally it was a day of free
                            liquor and a carousal. During each year there were also two muster days,
                            where these noble captains displayed their skill and sleight at arms. In
                            the spring of the year was regimental muster; in the fall was general
                            muster, with a barbecue, when the plucky settlers, nerved by corn juice,
                            would try their muscle on each other to display their championship, for
                            a champion fighter in these wilds was a hero. Here the people became
                            acquainted, and the lads and the lassies were sowing seed from which
                            they would reap many a day of pleasure. The Crowder boys were makers of
                            fun. They were fiddlers and'dancers and given to acting the
                            clown; and they were always on hand at all gatherings, ready to fiddle
                            and dance for a treat. They could walk "jawbone" and
                            mimic the modern dance. Joel Crowder was the clown; and he could play a
                            tune on one string of his fiddle that would put most modern players to
                            shame.
                        Now there appeared upon the scene about that time a man who was fit to be
                            called a "king," for that is what he was in Jackville.
                            He had a large, warm heart; and he was "given to
                            hospitality." It seemed that he had a magnetic presence. That
                            man was none other than Harris Reynolds, to whom the stage of actors
                            from this time must bow and of whom they must seek counsel.
                        
                        The Mill Creek boys and the Wolf Creek lads had an aversion for each
                            other on account of jealousy and rivalry about the fair ones; and they
                            made the rural precincts of Jackville their fighting ground, especially
                            when the week closed and the fiery liquid within them gave vent to
                            spleen peacefully slumbering. It fanned the smoldering coal into life
                            and opened the ball, which was "a warm reception." All
                            of them were proficient in dancing, and the gay girls often helped to
                            carry a royal joke to a free-for-all chafing.
                        Captain Hybarger often gave dances at his home. The fall of the year was
                            near at hand. The luscious pippins were streaked with red, and their
                            sweet essence filled the, air with aroma. They were ready to be cut and
                            dried, and many willing hands were waiting. Then the huge, round
                            pumpkins,.with their golden sides, were lying in the fields, with their
                            bosoms to the sun. The youngsters were waiting for the jolly apple
                            cuttings, the husking bees, and the social kissing parties that must
                            take place during the autumn, when Johnnie Oliver, alias "Blue
                            Blossom," appeared upon the scene announcing a dance at Captain
                            Hybarger's. Blue Blossom " ran with " a crowd
                            of boys of which he was chief, and did many deeds of daring equal to
                            those of-the knight-errants of old. Such occasions were free for all.
                            There were no buggies in those days, and horseback riding was all the
                            rage. The young ladies would ride either by themselves or behind their
                            lovers, when their  lovers would lope their
                            horses uphill and downhill to make their darlings hold them the
                            closer.
                        All was "merry as a marriage bell." The night came for
                            the ball at Captain Hybarger's. Great crowds of young folks
                            began to gather, dressed in the rich homespun of the day; and shouts of
                            glee in the distance announced the coming of Blue Blossom and his gang
                            of troopers, with their girls. There was not so much pride in dress as
                            there was to see who could dance the best and who could put on the most
                            airs. In that respect Blue Blossom, being very graceful and lively, was
                            quite proficient. Then there was the noble pedagogue, Duart
                            Cunningham--noted for his learning and sweet graces-- who was quite a
                            swell among the fair sex. He was tall and handsome, but a little lean in
                            his make-up. Then there were Robley Huts, a master at the
                            "light fantastic; " Samuel Bruner, also a hero and
                            quite glib of tongue, who made many a pleasing jest; William Haas, the
                            champion of many a hard-fought contest; Julius Harlow and George Alwood,
                            who could be relied upon as having the nerve of a Napoleon, and who
                            feared no one, except the devil. Among the ladies were Molly Bruno,
                            Nettie Sowers, Elsie McClain, Abby Hybarger, and Jennie Bowman, who were
                            among the noted fair ladies of those early times, the descendants of the
                            ancient settlers. The famous Crowder boys were there, and Joel Crowder
                            took his seat to render the music for the occasion. In this lively crowd
                            of people was one who  was a scientific
                            caller. It seemed that he was fitted by nature for that express purpose.
                            Nothing daunted him. He would mount a chair at the starting of the
                            music, and his sonorous voice would fill the house with its deep tones.
                            This man, by title, by name, was "Shorty Dawson;" and
                            he assumed the management of the dances. Shorty mounted a chair which
                            sat in a door between two rooms and called out partners for a quadrille.
                            The alert pedagogue, Duart Cunningham, chose as a partner the pretty
                            Molly Bruno, and escorted her to the main hall, ready for action. Then
                            followed Blue Blossom with Nettie Sowers. Following them was Samuel
                            Bruner with Abby Hybarger. Julius Harlow chose Ada Morgan. Joel Crowder
                            straightened himself up, and "plunked-te-plung!" his
                            violin to see if it was in tune. It was in perfect harmony. He sat in a
                            low chair, put his right foot alongside his chair, and worked it to the
                            time, like an eel working in the mud. His body leaned forward, and he
                            moved himself up and down, like a horse shaking off flies. He drew the
                            bow full sweep, and the favorite tune, "Buffalo Girls, Are You
                            Coming Out To-night?" charmed the hearts of all the merry
                            dancers, as Shorty Dawson called out: "Balance all! Swing your
                            partners right and left! All join hands and circle to the left, right
                            foot up and left foot down! Lady in the center, and seven hands round!
                            Swing your partners, one by one! Promenade round in a hustling run!
                            Jaybird right and yaller-ham- 
                            
                                SHORTY DAWSON AND JOEL CROWDER.
                            
                             mer left! Chaw corn bread, for the
                            wheat's all dead! Gee! Haw! All come around!" It was a
                            lovely time, and Shorty Dawson's voice ran with the music.
                        It soon developed that Cupid had a hand to play at the dance. Blue
                            Blossom was charmed with Molly Bruno's beautiful grace and
                            manners. If the pedagogue shuffled, she did the same; if he tripped it
                            lightly, she followed suit; and it was enough to charm the heart of a
                            king. Nettie Sowers was pretty and a good dancer; but Blue Blossom was
                            bent on making Molly's acquaintance, and he and his crowd of
                            followers, set about doing it. They would accomplish whatever he wanted
                            them to, if it was possible. As it happened, none of them knew Molly
                            Bruno. The Buffalo girls, with their escorts, danced in the other room;
                            among them was Clara Shanks, the belle of Buffalo Creek. The set was
                            finished, and all were seated; and Blue Blossom set about getting some
                            one to introduce him to the idol of his heart. The pedagogue stuck close
                            to Molly Bruno, guarding his prize; for he had seen how closely Blue
                            Blossom observed her, and he was a trifle jealous. Finally, Julius
                            Harlow said that he knew her, and that he would introduce Blue Blossom
                            to her for a good "jigger" of brandy. Blue Blossom
                            drew a flask from his pocket and handed it to Julius Harlow, and told
                            him to help himself. Blue Blossom also took a little for his owfl
                            nerves, for in those days liquor was free and nothing was thought
                            of' its use. Again the  mazy dance
                            was going on, and Blue Blossom could do nothing but watch his idolized
                            beauty. His heart was full of anxiety, and the fiery
                            "nectar" was giving him courage -for the opportunity
                            that would come: for an acquaintance after the dance. Still the
                            pedagogue guarded the prize; but Julius Harlow by this time was equal to
                            the occasion, and he called to Molly Bruno to come to him, saying that
                            he wanted to speak to her. She excused herself, and, stepping lightly
                            across the room, was soon in the presence of the hero. Julius Harlow
                            said: " If you please, Miss Bruno, I have the pleasure to
                            introduce to you Mr. Oliver, who has been very desirous of making your
                            acquaintance."
                        Molly Bruno responded: "I am happy to meet you."
                        It was quite different to the introduction of William Haas and Nettie
                            Sowers. When she was introduced to him and she responded, "I am
                            pleased to make your acquaintance," he said, "I expect
                            you are," as though he were lord of the earth. This was a rare
                            exhibition of self-importance. Of course this was the style at Weasel
                            Peak School, where there was more "licking" than
                            learning, and where Professor Cunningham had never wielded the
                            scepter.
                        Blue Blossom told Molly Bruno that he would like for her to dance with
                            him. She said that she would be pleased to do so, but was engaged for
                            the present, but that at the first opportunity she would grant his
                            desire,
                        
                        "Thanks," said Blue Blossom; and Molly Bruno excused
                            herself and returned to Professor Cunningham.
                        Blue Blossom and Julius Harlow retired to drink their health at such
                            luck. Blue Blossom felt himself much honored, and he put on quite a
                            lordly air.
                        The Buffalo boys were very noisy, and a don't-care spirit
                            pervaded all of them. All the ladies were handsome, having been reared
                            in these rural parts, where plenty of exercise gave them both muscle and
                            beauty. It took no cosmetics to make a beautiful woman in those days of
                            cheer and leisure.
                        Blue Blossom danced with Elsie McClain; but he kept his eye on Molly
                            Bruno, who imitated each one with whom she danced. Elsie McClain was a
                            good dancer; she was as spry as could be. She, too, was good at the art
                            of imitation. Blue Blossom swung her with graceful air, being nerved by
                            his promised success. The pedagogue had a good hold upon the fair one,
                            and Blue Blossom rather feared him; but when the word was called,
                            "Promenade to your seats!" Blue Blossom lost no time
                            in claiming his opportunity and approached Molly Bruno for the dance.
                            Everything went well with him. The pedagogue, not to be outdone, seized
                            upon the occasion to take a bout with Nettie Sowers, who was a
                            delightful partner. It was a way the Professor sought to retaliate upon
                            Blue Blossom. It was a delight to be in the presence of the
                            schoolmaster, who was an object of dignity. But the young ladies love a
                            hero; it  seems to edify their souls. Blue
                            Blossom gave Shorty Dawson a tip, a reward, to call in his most
                            dignified manner, which he did; and Blue Blossom led Molly Bruno on the
                            floor with the stately air of a. king. It was a grand affair. Blue
                            Blossom's followers were all around to witness the dance. They
                            rather sought to bother the pedagogue with their pranks of mimicry; but
                            although he was tall and lean, he was graceful and mannerly. Blue
                            Blossom was stately, and he did his best. Molly Bruno matched his steps
                            exactly; and he was as proud as a lord. He could tell by the smiles of
                            his comrades that he was "doing things brown." Great
                            was the rivalry of such heroes ! One was loved for his boldness and
                            courage; the other, for his refinement and sociability.
                        Things became a little warm for the Buffalonians. Two men, from East Mill
                            Creek, had brought. two long-handled gourds to the dance, which they had
                            purloined along the way; and the rough boys used them as billies in
                            their sport. Wilson Wagger--a large, burly fellow, who had appropriated
                            his father's honey for dance money--was sought out for a
                            target. A gourd was centered on his cranium, and he fell to the floor.
                            He was afraid to arise, as so many were striking at him; so he ran out
                            of the house on all fours, one Buffalonian jumping astride his back and
                            riding him as he would have ridden a horse.
                        This ended the dance, and all sought their partners  to "see them home." Blue Blossom was
                            afraid to try to escort Molly Bruno, thinking that the pedagogue had
                            engaged her company previously. He decided that he would have to take
                            Nettie Sowers, whom he had brought; so he said: "Molly, I would
                            like some time in the future to have the pleasure of your
                            company."
                        "I shall be pleased to grant your desire," she
                            said.
                        All were busy putting on their wraps for the home journey. The girls
                            jumped on behind their male companions, and they went galloping over the
                            hills and through the vales to their homes. The screech owls would
                            screech, and the horned monsters would cry, "Who, who, who are
                            you?" but it made no difference with such brave youngsters.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER II.
                        All the party were at home again, and all seemed well. The pedagogue went
                            back to his school, in the brakes of Mill Creek, where there was more
                            "licking" than learning. The benches were made of rude
                            slabs of timber, with pins for legs; and the clothes racks were pins
                            driven in the wall. The windows were holes in the walls covered with
                            muslin. Here Professor Cunningham reigned as lord and master, wielding
                            the birch at will. The larger boys cut the wood to feed the
                            old-fashioned fireplace, which occupied one end of the room. Here the
                            large girls and boys sat close together, "made love,"
                            and did many cunning things, "stealing a march" on the
                            Professor. The master was seated upon a three-legged stool, and he
                            revolved upon it much like a weathercock upon its pedestal. It perched
                            him high above the rural urchins, furnishing him with a good view of all
                            about him; and the rays of light passed out from him like the
                            coruscating rays from a candelabrum. Upon his desk lay the spoils of
                            many a conquest, as he passed around among the pupils, capturing French
                            pantaloons, mock birds, and half-eaten apples (probably impressed with
                            the print of Molly Bruno's beautiful teeth), which he long in-
                                 spected after school had closed.
                            Behind the Professor were hidden the rods of correction in a time-worn
                            map or in the crannies of the wall; and many a brave youth there
                            shuddered as they were drawn from their hiding, for great were the pangs
                            inflicted. Here ruled the master of the village school, as he sat upon
                            his three-legged stool, peeping and squinting at Tom, Dick, and Harry,
                            and urging them to be prompt and to study.
                        
                            It lightened his load and spread his name,
                            Building a man of wonderful fame.
                        
                        At the sound of his voice the children would study with a rush, humming
                            like bees--except Molly Bruno, who was licensed to smile occasionally,
                            which made lasting impressions upon the Professor.
                        In the evenings Molly Bruno worked in her father's mill,
                            grinding grain for sour mash, which was to be turned into the fiery
                            water (called "whisky") of the still. Here she would
                            sing and work, and the Professor would often loiter, feigning a desire
                            to see "the old gentleman," when, in fact, it was to
                            watch the pretty Molly feed the golden corn into the hopper. Here Molly
                            gave the Professor a lesson in the art of milling; and as the corn
                            dropped into the great stone to be crushed into meal, at the same time
                            the Professor's heart was being crushed in the great mill of
                            love.
                        It was a kind of boarding school which the Professor taught, for each
                            week he stayed with a different patron.  As
                            he made the rounds of the neighborhood, he became a kind of itinerant
                            newspaper in those early days, which pleased the women of each
                            household.
                        Blue Blossom lived out toward Hell's Half Acre, on a little spot
                            of ground which he tilled like a garden; he also fished, hunted, and
                            roamed the country in pursuit of ginseng, which was a cash article at
                            the little store called "Rag and Sang," in Jackville.
                            This sort of exercise gave strength to his muscles, beauty to his form,
                            and freedom to his spirit. He, too, would call at the Bruno mill, when
                            on his way to the village, for the purpose of seeing the beautiful
                            miller, whose smiles were a charm for his soul and a balm for his aching
                            heart.
                        At Weasel Peak School, Loring White held sway as rural pedagogue, lining
                            the urchins up in the curriculum of the three
                            "r's." He was a very popular man; but he was
                            no such orator as Professor Cunningham. At one time White was a clerk in
                            the Treasurer's office, at Crawfordsville. Cunningham swayed
                            the hearts of men with his eloquence. White was a good speaker and an
                            excellent dancer. He was the chief lord of Ward Town, in the shady dells
                            of Mill Creek; but he would often make a friendly visit to the green
                            hills and health springs of lovely Jackville, where Nature did her best
                            to please the eye of man with her weird scenes.
                        About this time there came to Jackville, from the discordant fields of
                            Kentucky, one Johnson Clore, who  opened a
                            general merchandise store in the hope of gaining wealth for future
                            happiness; and in this he was very successful, for he is now able to run
                            a wholesale house in a large city. The first trade that he made was to
                            take an opossum hide in exchange for merchandise. It is queer to note
                            that the women were good traders. For instance, one lady traded with Mr.
                            Clore, promising to pay when the milk soured, when she would bring him
                            the butter; but as she never brought the butter, it is supposed that the
                            milk never soured.
                        A cabinetmaker also began business at Jackville. He made coffins, and
                            carried them on his head along the street from the shop to the finishing
                            room. It sent a chill and a shudder to many a fair heart to see the coat
                            of the dead upon a living head.
                        A book vender once came to Jackville; but he had a hard time in this
                            rural place, where Nature's book was opte to the people, and
                            they had but to scan a new flower when a new leaf was open. The
                            merchants had rude signs in front of their places of business, such as
                            "Sweet 'Tater Plants for Sale " and
                            "Cash for Jingsang." The book agent, in his hard luck,
                            referred to these signs, and said his book would assist them in such
                            work; whereupon Professor McClain exclaimed: "What is the
                            matter with those signs? I made them! " Hence the adage,
                            "When in Rome, do as Rome does," would work well in
                            this place. It was too delicate a matter to show the Professor; so the
                            book agent had to  smooth the
                            Professor's ruffled coat with an apology and pass along, for
                            people here were on their mettle upon the least provocation.
                        It was nearing the time of general muster, and great preparations were
                            being made for a grand time. The old muskets which the government
                            furnished were brought from their dusty racks over the rude doors and
                            burnished for the occasion. Mr. Harris Reynolds was the leading colonel.
                            He was appointed by Gov. Joseph A. Wright, of Indiana. As the time of
                            the muster drew near, the people would begin to "steam
                            up" a little on "corn juice" and make merry.
                            One old man, named "Mackelwee," took on a little too
                            much of the fiery spirits; and the small boys sought to have some fun
                            with him, when he became vexed and started for home. He lost his way,
                            and wandered around in his delirium in the dark shades of night until he
                            fell over the bluff of Mill Creek and broke the brittle cord of life,
                            severing the frail connection of soul and body. A funnel-shaped hat upon
                            the rocky cliff above caused the searching multitude to look below,
                            where they discovered his remains.
                        
                            'Such is the fate of man
                            Where fiery spirits sway;
                            They lead the moving van
                            To pitfalls on the way.
                        
                        Blue Blossom was a captain, and Duart Cunningham was the orator. The
                            barbecue was to be at Cap- 
                            
                                COL. HARRIS REYNOLDS("The noblest Roman of them
                                    all").
                            
                             tain White's, out on Coal Creek.
                            The day arrived, and four beeves were roasted for the occasion. The
                            delegation from Jackville was under Colonel Reynolds. All formed in line
                            and went in fine procession. Colonel Reyonlds, with a long, blue sash
                            around his shoulders, rode a fine gray charger at the head of the
                            delegation. He was a very large man, with a commanding presence. Captain
                            Summers was standard bearer. Duart Cunningham, the orator, rode in the
                            front wagon, which was drawn by four black horses. The band of music was
                            also in the front wagon. Shorty Dawson, with his fife, incessantly
                            played the tune entitled "Jaybird." Robley Huts played
                            the snare drum. Nettie Sowers and Molly Bruno were in the delegation,
                            and were as sweet as autumn roses. Captain Blue Blossom rode his black
                            racer. When he came near the ladies, tipping his hat, he said:
                            "Good morning, ladies!" The ladies responded,
                            "Good morning, Captain!" and he continued to ride
                            alongside the delegation near the ladies, improving every precious
                            moment; while Professor Cunningham was absorbed in the deep thoughts of
                            his oration for the patriotic citizens, who, with the least hint of a
                            redcoat, would spill the last drop of rich, red blood in their
                            courageous veins.
                        The delegation moved on in stately order until Coal Creek was reached.
                            Here all was in readiness. Captain White welcomed the people in the
                            following language: "Ladies and gentlemen of the great Common-
                                 wealth of Jackville, I welcome you to
                            these grounds to-day in the name of the great father of our country,
                            Gen. George Washington, who was willing to leave all and risk his life
                            and fortune in the hand of a guiding Providence; and you are to-day none
                            the less patriotic than the great father. You, the people of Jackson
                            Township, are most cordially welcome."
                        Duart Cunningham was ready with the following response: "Most
                            noble Captain, allow me in the name of Jackson Township to thank you for
                            the great kindness which you have shown to us to-day in so cordially
                            making this concession. May the Lord bless you for assisting this cause,
                            which is for the purpose of maintaining the rights of the United States.
                            Most worthy Captain, you have our most sincere thanks."
                        Duart Cunningham was then introduced as the orator of the day. He
                            delivered a very patriotic address, reciting the aid which the minutemen
                            had rendered in the great war for independence; and he moved his people
                            to greater love of country.
                        During all this time Blue Blossom was taking advantage of the Professor
                            by making love to Molly Bruno, giving her candy and such sweetmeats as
                            the times afforded.
                        The forenoon was taken up in speeches and dinner, at which Blue Blossom
                            ate with Molly Bruno, while Duart Cunningham had to be content with
                            Nettie Sowers.
                        
                        Arrangements had been previously made for a duel at swords upon the
                            speaker's stand between Colonel Reynolds and the conceited
                            Captain Summers. At twelve o'clock the duel took place. The two
                            men advanced upon the stage, looking like knights of yore. The word was
                            given for action, and they commenced fencing and parrying. It was soon
                            evident that Summers was no match for Reynolds, for he repeatedly
                            touched the button over Summers' heart; and finally, by a
                            clever stroke of the saber, he drew the hilt of Summers' sword
                            from his hand, when a great shout went up for Reynolds. To this day
                            Summers will not speak of the "Knights of the Golden
                            Circle" or of his mastery at arms; while Reynolds is still that
                            ever-warm, sociable fellow which makes him a leader of men.
                        After dinner was over, the tattoo was beaten to fall into line to muster;
                            and the great throng of men fell into line under the command of the
                            shrewd colonels and captains. Professor Cunningham was at leisure at
                            this time; and he sought the company of Molly, showing a warmer
                            affection than ever. He promenaded with her about the grounds,
                            commenting upon the many novel scenes about the place. Blue Blossom was
                            in the height of his glory, giving commands and looking like a plumed
                            knight. Molly Bruno lent her ear to the Professor in a half-hearted way,
                            while her side glances revealed the fact that she was observing Blue
                            Blossom very intently. It is very noticeable that the heroic  mold of men always has a great hold upon
                            the hearts of women.
                        Daniel Roach, of Blue Blossom's gallant crowd, had come to the
                            muster upon a mule, which was full of tricks. Daniel rode the mule
                            around, touching it in the sides with his heels, which caused the animal
                            to kick and rear, trying to throw its rider. He made it perform like a
                            bucking broncho.
                        Blue Blossom made an engagement with Molly Bruno for Sunday afternoon,
                            "stealing a march" on Professor Cunningham.
                        The rally being over, all gave three cheers for Andrew Jackson, the
                            honored President, and started for home. Shorty Dawson, being well
                            supplied with Jackson "nervine," started again upon
                            his favorite "Jaybird" and played it until they
                            reached home. Remembering that they had spent another happy day for
                            their country, they felt quite sure that if England should declare war
                            they could vanquish her in short order.
                        There were few disturbances in the neighborhood, and generally those few
                            were settled between man and man with spleen and muscle.
                        Jacob Hybarger was the noted magistrate of the village, having served in
                            that capacity for twenty years. A woman had a man named
                            "Breant" brought before Hybarger for stealing horses.
                            Smyles Ratcliff was attorney for the plaintiff, and John W. Copner was
                            attorney for the defendant. The day came for the trial  before Squire Hybarger. The attorneys were
                            present, but the woman was absent. Squire Hybarger straightened himself
                            up, and, in a dignified manner, said: "The court is now ready
                            to hear the case." Attorney Ratcliff arose and addressed the
                            court as follows: "If Your Honor please, the plaintiff is not
                            able to attend court. If Your Honor please, we would like a continuance
                            of the case until a more convenient time." Then the old Squire
                            arose in his mantling robe and said: " D---n it! The court
                            don't please. If you have anything against the prisoner, bring
                            it out, or I'll turn the d---n thief loose." Whereupon
                            the thief was discharged from the greatest court of jurisprudence that
                            was ever convened in Jackville.
                        William Haas was the bully of the town, and he loved to make excursions
                            to the little bordering towns and carry off the "championship
                            of honor" for being the best man. He and two of his chums made
                            a visit to the little town of Silverwood, and sized up the place as one
                            easy to be taken. They hunted up a beer emporium run by a good Dutchman,
                            George Vanpeldt. Haas called for the drinks, when some section men
                            stepped up to the "bar and drank at Haas' expense.
                            Haas refused to settle for the drinks, whereupon Jonas Blannerhasset
                            undertook to force payment. Only a few passes were made, when Haas was
                            knocked down and kicked, under a beer table, like a rag baby, and
                            Blannerhasset exclaimed: "Pay for de beers, or I licks de bully
                                 of Jackville!" Haas'
                            two confederates were driven to the street, and every time Haas tried to
                            crawl out he was kicked back like a cur. His friends raised a
                            "racket" in the street by shooting and hallooing,
                            which afforded him an opportunity to crawl out and run.
                        There had lately moved into Jackville a peaceable, inoffensive man named
                            "Putney," whom Haas was intent on initiating in his
                            favorite skill at arms, and he accordingly went to Putney's
                            house for that purpose. Putney commanded Haas to stay out or he would
                            kill him, presenting his fowling piece at Haas' breast; but as
                            that did not stop him, Putney discharged the weapon. Haas fell to the
                            ground, mortally wounded; but he was brave, and exclaimed:
                            "Bang went the gun, and down went the soldier!" It is
                            needless to say that self-defense was the verdict of the jury.
                        In those early days the government paid little attention to revenue from
                            whisky; but as time rolled on, the collector came, and things were not
                            so pleasant. Then came about the illicit stills, and many a smoke-stack
                            was connected with a house flue; the rugged hills were also a favorite
                            retreat. Then it came about that strangers were accosted with,
                            "Where are you going?" "What is your
                            business?" etc.; and no smartness was tolerated, or there would
                            be a warm reception, for the bungalow boys were
                            "some."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER III.
                        It was Sabbath morning, and it seemed that the Lord had put more splendor
                            in the beautiful sunlight than ever before. The rays of light went forth
                            percolating the interstices of the shimmering leaves, and the beau-
                            tiful cock robin warbled his morning lay from a tilting bough, lending
                            his melody to the sweet, mellow shade of the vine-clad hills. Molly
                            Bruno's golden curls absorbed the mind of Blue Blossom, whose
                            heart was full of happiness--with a slight strain of fear, however,
                            knowing that often a maiden's heart is full of deception and
                            leads many a manly heart to sadness and gloom. The Professor's
                            mind had probably not been relieved of the great strain of mensuration
                            or the scientific rules of grammar as he expounded them to beautiful
                            Molly Bruno and Nettie Sowers. Such things did not bother the mind of
                            the genial Blue Blossom, whose heart loved Nature in all her glory.
                        It was two o'clock in the afternoon, and Molly Bruno was looking
                            forward to the coming of the merry Blue Blossom. Soon the sound of
                            horses' feet was heard in the distance on the old plank road
                            that led in from Hillsboro. Blue Blossom loped his black charger in
                            stately style along the way, and soon ar- 
                            rived at the Bruno residence. He alighted, hitched his horse to the
                            fence, and went in. Molly Bruno, the charming creature, was all smiles
                            in receiving her honored guest. Mr. Bruno soon saw that the Professor
                            had a rival for the hand of his daughter--much against his will,
                            however. Molly had things pretty much her own way. Blue Blossom soon
                            invited Molly to take a walk. They rambled among stately elms and under
                            sweet maple bowers until they came to a beautiful water beech, whose
                            shady boughs were overrun with wild grapevines, forming a natural
                            canopy. Beneath this beautiful tree lay a moss-covered log. Here Blue
                            Blossom invited Molly to sit down and rest; and here, in
                            Nature's sweet repose, sat the two youthful lovers. Sublime
                            tranquillity and happiness were theirs. In these quiet precincts they
                            could bill and coo as only true lovers can. Could the Professor have
                            beheld this beautiful picture as they sat beneath the hooded bush,
                            Nature's greatest handiwork, he would have dreamed dreams of
                            sorrow and disappointment at not being there in the company of his
                            beloved Molly. As children of Nature in this peaceful retreat, with none
                            to interrupt them, they could confide their secrets to each other like
                            nestling doves. They sat and conversed and cooed until the shade of
                            night put forth its mantling robe, which sent the lovers home. A future
                            engagement was made, and then Blue Blossom departed, owing to Mr.
                            Bruno's favoring the suit of Professor  Cunningham, who was expected in the near future. It was the
                            happiest day of Blue Blossom's life. He felt the power of love
                            going out from his heart to one that he must win or he would die of a
                            broken heart.
                        The Professor had an engagement with Molly Bruno, and went over to see
                            her. She was the same sweet girl that she had ever been; and Mr. Bruno
                            was more courteous to the Professor, showing appreciation of him. The
                            Professor was quite versatile and a good entertainer; and he interested
                            Mr. Bruno, as well as his daughter, with many a beautiful legend made
                            rich in its essence by the hand of tradition. There was a house down on
                            Buffalo Creek that was haunted, and the conversation drifted in that
                            direction. Several families had lived there; but, to their sorrow and
                            dismay, they were forced to move away on account of the spiritual
                            rappings and imaginary light about the place in the gloom of night. The
                            Professor boasted of his bravery, and said that there were no such
                            things as "haunts," or ghosts.
                        It then occurred to Molly Bruno that she could test the mettle of the two
                            men on whom she was bestowing her affections; so she told Blue Blossom
                            about the ambition of the Professor, thinking that he would invent some
                            way to catch the deluding spirit and also make the Profesor prove his
                            bold assertion. She knew that tradition was a mighty factor in human
                            life, and that there were few that had no superstition in them; and  the Professor had been heard to remark
                            about the "fair and foul" of Friday.
                        There was to be a dance at Tice Flood's, out on the Chalk Farm,
                            near Luthern. The invitations were sent out. The time came for the
                            dance, and a great crowd arrived. Joel Crowder and Shorty Dawson were
                            there, ready to play and call. A band of fellows, calling themselves
                            "Gray Cats," came from Northern Jackson; and their
                            motto was: "Rule or Ruin." There lived in the vicinity
                            of Alamo the greatest rowdy of the age, named "Rodney
                            McKinney." He proposed to a friend to go to the dance; but, on
                            investigation, it developed that neither of them had a horse on which to
                            make the trip. At the time the good old Father McKiniey was entertaining
                            the Methodist circuit rider at his home in a most hospitable manner. It
                            occurred to Rodney that the preacher's horse and sleigh would
                            serve them well; so he hitched up the old gray horse, and away they
                            went, scudding along to the dance. All went well at the dance until the
                            "Gray Cats" started to "run things."
                            Bandy Sowers drew a pistol and a Bowie knife and did a feat in jugglery
                            by throwing them in the air and then catching them by the hilts; but
                            this did not awe the "Gray Cats." The Jackvillians
                            were quiet until one of the "Gray Cats" took a small
                            boy, Robert Myer, and stood him up in the fireplace. Then the fun began.
                            Blue Blossom and his crowd overcame the "Gray Cats,"
                            put them out, barred the door,  and cried:
                            "On with the dance!" The "light fantastic
                            "went round and round. The "Gray Cats"
                            rallied, stormed the castle, and took the fort. The Jack- ville boys
                            retired in good order, with Molly Bruno on the arm of the Professor and
                            Nettie Sowers clinging to Blue Blossom, and Robley Huts was the
                            protector of Elsie McClain.
                        All was merry with Rodney McKinney until he started to go home, when, to
                            his horror, he found that the tail of the preacher's horse had
                            been shaved by the "Gray Cats." He was dumfounded as
                            to what to do, as the minister would now be sure to discover his ruse.
                            All at once Rodney cried out, "O, I can fix it now!"
                            and he stooped and picked up all the hair and put it into the
                            sleigh.
                        "What are you going to do with that hair?" asked his
                            friend.
                        "I'll show you when I get home," replied
                            Rodney.
                        When they arrived at Father McKinney's, Rodney took the hair
                            into the stable and scattered it all around the horse, as though the
                            mischief had been done there. This was the good man's trial of
                            woe, caused by the mischievous Rodney.
                        On that night Stanley Hall lost his life at the Mill Creek
                            Bridge--whether by fair means or foul, the good Lord only knows.
                        
                        
                            By the side of the river of waters
                            The light of life went out,
                            And the soul in transit murmured
                            In the air waves on its route.
                            Where the wings of the wind listeth
                            We dream of pleasures above;
                            There the ties of friends and dear ones
                            Are bound with a clasp of love.
                        
                        Richard Chumley and family had lived in the haunted house, but had moved
                            out that week on account of the awful spirits that infested it. There
                            was a snapping and a cracking of doors and a glimmering of the windows
                            in the starlight, which looked like the light of a candle or the spirit
                            of some departed soul; and in their hallucination or restless dreams
                            they could see a creature above their beds, dressed in pure white and
                            looking much like an angel, hovering and bowing over them. They would
                            cry out in their sleep on seeing this ghostly object.
                        The talk at the dance was about the Buffalo ghost, and Blue Blossom
                            proposed a crowd to go and catch it. Many shuddered and shook their
                            heads at the thought of such a thing, while Blue Blossom's men
                            were ever ready to go. They proposed to the Professor to go on Friday
                            night and watch for it. Of course he could not refuse, and it. was a
                            "go."
                        Friday night came, and they all met in Jackville.  They took on some spirits to nerve them to deeds of daring;
                            the Professor himself did not refuse to take a little
                            "nervine" for his health's sake. They rode
                            along, jesting about the mischievous spirit and as to how they would
                            delude it and trap it. Finally they arrived at the house and went in. It
                            was proposed by Blue Blossobn that they "draw cuts" to
                            see who would watch, or stand guard; and by a trick it fell upon the
                            Professor. The others amused themselves at cards and jokes until they
                            were tired and sleepy. They then lay down to sleep. Blue Blossom also
                            lay down with them. He did not sleep, but kept a watch upon the
                            Professor, whose heart was palpitating, ready to jump out of him. Soon a
                            sonorous sound issued from the sleepers' nostrils, adding to
                            the solemnity of the evening. Then there came a rattling of the windows,
                            and the Professor sprang to his feet and looked wild. He sat down again.
                            Soon a "rat, tat, tat!" was heard under the house,
                            accompanied by a scratching noise. The Professor's hair stood
                            straight; his eyes glared. He did not want to awaken the sleeping men;
                            still, he was scared nigh unto death. Again the old stick chimney
                            rattled as the martins slipped from their perch and a louder
                            "rat, tat tat!" was heard under the floor. The
                            Professor arose, slipped to the door, went out, looked all around, the
                            stooped and looked under the house, when--behold!--two large fireballs
                            shone out before him. He gasped, sprang to his feet, and then started
                            down the road at  a
                            "two-forty" gait; while his swallow-tailed coat stood
                            out at right angles, like "Old Glory" in a stiff
                            breeze. This was sufficient proof of his "bravery." He
                            imagined that some great demon was after him. He shuddered at the sound
                            of his own footsteps; and as he looked back over his shoulder, the house
                            was fast disappearing in the distance.
                        "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the wily Blue Blossom.
                            "One hero has fled. What will I do? Will I awaken my comrades,
                            or will I brave it alone? I will try it myself. If I can succeed, I will
                            gain a victory. I have heard those tappings. Surely it cannot be a devil
                            or a man, If it is a man, I will outwit him; if it is Satan, I will
                            storm his castle for Molly's sake."
                        So Blue Blossom sat up, awaiting developments. Soon a shooting star
                            flashed a light upon the window. His hair rose a little and a chill
                            crept over him. All was silent. His comrades still slept soundly. The
                            swallows fluttered in the chimney, making a rumbling noise, then
                            subsiding like the rustling of new silk, adding awe to the dismal sound.
                            He heaved a long sigh. Then he arose, went to the chimney, and looked
                            up; but nothing could be seen, save a bit of blue sky sprinkled with
                            stars. He sat down again, a child of fate. Presently "rat, tat,
                            tat!" was heard under the floor. Then there was a whistle,
                            ending with a grating of teeth. His hair stood straight; his breast
                            heaved; and fear, mingled with awe, filled his whole body.
                        
                        "Will I awaken my comrades and leave, or can I stand this awful
                            strain?" asked Blue Blossom. "I will try it still
                            longer."
                        Reaching down to his boot top, he drew out a large
                            "Navy" revolver, which inspired him with greater
                            courage; but the great mystery was that he could see nothing to shoot.
                            He was an expert marksman, the crack shot of the neighborhood, having
                            carried off the honors at many a shooting match. "Rat, tat,
                            tat!" was heard again. Then he resolved to peep under the house
                            to see if anything was there. He knew that this was the place where the
                            Professor had parted company with them. He arose, went out, lay down
                            upon the ground, and peered into the darkness; and--behold!--the same
                            spectacle met his gaze that had startled the Professor, except that the
                            fireballs were sulphuric green and seemed like worlds of mystery. He
                            tried to speak, but his voice faltered and failed him. Again he tried,
                            and he stammered out: "Who--who are you?" There was no
                            reply. Again he asked: "Who are you?" Pointing his
                            weapon at the little dark space between the two orbs of fire, he took
                            deliberate aim and fired. The lights went out. The report of his weapon
                            aroused his comrades, who sprang to their feet; but they could see no
                            Professor and no Blue Blossom. They feared that a deadly combat had
                            taken place between them, and began to hunt for them. They ran to the
                            open door; and  seeing Blue Blossom, they
                            demanded of him: "Where is Professor Cunningham?"
                        "O!" exclaimed Blue Blossom. "He fled in the
                            third watch when the spirits overcame him. Then I resolved to try
                            myself; so I came out here and discovered two lights under the house,
                            which I just now snuffed with my revolver. Bring a light, and let us see
                            what it is."
                        Robley Huts and Julius Harlow ran into the house and came out with the
                            candelabrum. They held it, while William Geeting crawled under the
                            house, where he found a large woodchuck that had been digging its burrow
                            in the sandy soil. Its forehead was pierced in the center.
                        Thus ended the spooks and the ghosts and the goblins of, Buffalo. With
                            Blue Blossom a hero, the party marched away, singing "Home the
                            Conqueror Comes."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IV.
                        It seemed that a new day was dawning upon the town of Jackville. Thomas
                            Allen had settled upon the banks of Wolf Creek. He had the strains of
                            ministerial blood in his veins; and, like Nimrod of old, he was a great
                            hunter. He named the place "Wolf Creek," from the
                            numerous wolves that infested that vicinity; and the good old man paid
                            his taxes in wolf scalps as long as he lived, as the State paid a good
                            bounty for them. His son, William Allen, inherited his father's
                            ministerial instinct, and he started a church and a cemetery at Wolf
                            Creek, which are noted to-day. Like the sermons of most of his Baptist
                            brethren, Rev. William Allen's sermons were prolix and long
                            drawn out, with a sonorous voice; but they reached the hearts and swayed
                            the souls of men. So famous did he become that he invaded the citadel of
                            Jackville, carrying the good work to success, converting the young
                            dancers by teaching them the golden truths of God. After a long revival
                            at Jackville, many persons confessed Christ; and, according to the
                            Baptist theory, there must be a washing away of sins in the virtuous
                            waters of quaint old Mill Creek. The appointed day arrived, and the old
                            people came to witness the baptismal service and to vie with the
                            Lord's children.  Some were heard
                            to remark that they would give the converts only a fortnight to break
                            away from the Lord's way; but the Beatitudes of Christ were
                            upon the converts, and their new life was not ephemeral. William Allen
                            was noted for reaping the golden harvest of precious grain in due
                            season, while the Spirit of the Lord 
                                WILLIAM ALLEN AT WOLF CREEK CHURCH.
                             was nigh. William Geeting rode up and down the placid stream,
                            while William Allen baptized these people into the Lord, causing wonder
                            and amazement to the doubting Thomases.
                        Again the autumn was here, with its rich colors; and  the ripe fruit filled the ambient air with its sweet aroma,
                            while the leaves twirled and rolled along in heaps. The bare boughs of
                            the trees spoke of the nutting time, with its great fun, as the many
                            lads and lassies rambled over the beautiful hills in pursuit of these
                            luxuries. The golden ears of corn were peeping forth from their rich
                            coverts, awaiting the harvest time. The farmers were jerking their corn
                            and throwing it into heaps for the merry huskers' fun and
                            frolic. Phineas Breant invited the young people to come and husk corn.
                            The young men brought their lassies to the joyful husking bee. The young
                            men chose partners to husk corn. They then divided into even numbers and
                            stretched a rope across the pile of unhusked corn. In the center they
                            put a jug of whisky. Then they commenced husking for dear life. The
                            party that got to the center first would get the jug of whisky, and the
                            gentleman that husked the first red ear of corn might take his choice
                            between kissing the prettiest girl and taking a drink of whisky.
                        Professor Cunningham, Blue Blossom, Robley Huts, Nettie Sowers, Molly
                            Bruno, Ada Morgan, Clara Shanks, and William Geeting were at the
                            husking. Blue Blossom was alert, and he chose Molly Bruno as his
                            partner. The Professor husked with Ada Morgan. All was fun and joy with
                            the whole crowd. The jug of beaded spirits having been placed in the
                            heap of corn, William Geeting suggested that they hurry to see who  would win the coveted prize. The dusky
                            husks began to fly, and the busy hum went round, with many a cheerful
                            laugh, when, all at once, Blue Blossom husked the first red ear of corn.
                            All looked wise and wistful to see what the hero would do. A loud shout
                            of laughter resounded through the barn, for Blue Blossom gently leaned
                            forward and kissed pretty Molly Bruno. Then a shout of applause went up.
                            This made the Professor a little jealous of the coveted Molly. Her
                            affections were not to be measured with a cup of fiery spirits by the
                            loving Blue Blossom. On went the busy huskers, bent upon seeing who
                            would win the prize. Often Molly would get a tough ear of corn which she
                            could not break, and, with smiles, she would hand it to the daring Blue
                            Blossom, whose eyes sparkled with delight.
                        William Geeting urged the Professor and his huskers to greater efforts,
                            and they won the enchanting prize. The Professor pulled the jug from its
                            hiding place and set it on the winning side; but on went the huskers
                            until all the corn was husked, when the merry parties drank to their
                            hearts' content, according to the custom of the times.
                        When all was over, Mr. Sowers cleared the floor for a party. All were
                            eager to exchange kisses, and such old-time songs as "Weevily
                            Wheat" and "The Forsaken Lover" went ringing
                            away till morning.
                        Blue Blossom and Molly Bruno started the play by  setting a chair in the middle of the floor and getting the
                            Professor into it. Then they marched around, singing:
                        
                            "We're marching round a pedagogue--
                            A pedagogue, a pedagogue!
                            We're marching round a pedagogue,
                            As merry as we can be!
                            The oak grows tall, the vine grows slim;
                            So rise you up, my pedagogue,
                            And choose another in!"
                        
                        Blue Blossom took delight in making the song as ludicrous as possible.
                            While the Professor felt a pang of embarrassment, he braved it through
                            and chose Nettie Sowers to take his place in the chair. Then the tune
                            changed to:
                        
                            " We're marching round a pretty girl--
                            A pretty girl, a pretty girl!
                            We're marching round a pretty girl,
                            As merry as we can be!
                            The oak grows tall, the vine grows slim;
                            So rise you up, my pretty girl,
                            And choose another in!"
                        
                        By this time the Professor's embarrassment had worn away; and
                            he, too, marched around the chair, with Nettie Sowers hanging on his
                            arm. The marching was kept up until all in the crowd had been chosen in
                            the play. The song was changed to suit the circumstances, which added to
                            the merriment of the young people.
                        
                        At this time Walter Lawson made his advent among the party, and he became
                            acquainted with Nettie Sowers. Cupid then set himself to work for the
                            union of loving hearts. It seemed as though the Professor would be
                            without company; but Ada Morgan, as lovely a creature as ever the sun
                            shone upon, clung to him like a humming bird clings to a sweet flower.
                            Youthful ambition, filled with pride, made love among the revelers as
                            sweet as could be.
                        Professor White, from Weasel Peak, was there, looking rather wan,
                            thinking that he was growing old, and that no beautiful lass had ever
                            picked him off the parental tree, although he had exchanged lovely
                            smiles with many a charming lass.
                        Jason Thomas was also there; and he had shown a preference for Nettie
                            Sowers, having escorted her home on several occasions. He was quite a
                            gallant among the fair sex. But Walter Lawson was the idol of Nettie
                            Sowers, and she had a far-away look in her dreamy eyes which seemed to
                            say, "I will follow thee where angels fear to tread,"
                            which was the expression of her great attachment to him; and the golden
                            cord of love united them in the holy bonds of wedlock. They were married
                            at the Sowers home, and the infare was sumptuous, having been prepared
                            with great care by their many loving friends. Nearly all the youngsters
                            of the neighborhood had planned a charivari for the night of the
                            wedding. A great many of them gathered to 
                            join in the sport, bringing tin pans, horse fiddles, and guns. Lawson
                            and the bride were in an upper chamber, preparing to retire for a
                            night's repose, with thoughts of sweet dreams, such as only
                            seraphs can imagine in sweet enchantment. Then the noisy crowd commenced
                            their gleeful sport. Jason Thomas carried a shotgun, which he pointed at
                            the window of the upper room and discharged it, when, to the horror of
                            the crowd, Nettie Lawson fell, bleeding, to the floor, and died, with
                            the contents of that awful charge in her forehead. It was an awful
                            catastrophe; but such was the fate of pretty Nettie Lawson, in the bloom
                            of womanhood. The verdict of the court which tried the case was that the
                            shooting was accidental, but the enmity there begun between the Sowerses
                            and the Thomases was never healed. Often they met in sunny Jackville
                            with malicious intent, looking at each other like ferocious animals; but
                            neither party spoke a word, and a deadly feud was thereby averted.
                        At the party the Professor was alert, and he engaged Molly
                            Bruno's company for the future. It had been some time since he
                            had heard the rumbling mill grinding the precious grain which lent
                            enchantment to his soul and visions of happiness to his dreams. However,
                            Blue Blossom escorted Molly home.
                        Molly Bruno could not slight the Professor, on account of her parents, as
                            they thought so much of him; and they had great fears of the chivalrous
                            spirit  of young Blue Blossom, whom they
                            detested for no other reason than his rambling, wild nature.
                        Again peace and quietude reigned in Jackville, while the rumbling mill
                            ground away and the fiery liquid went trickling around through the worm
                            of the still.
                        On East Mill Creek lived a man named "Jacob Fillmore,"
                            who made frequent excursions to the enchanting banks of West Mill Creek.
                            He loved the fiery "netar." Once he climbed the pipe
                            through which water was forced to the second story of the distillery. He
                            went in and filled his demijohn with the precious fluid that lent
                            enchantment to his soul and gave him wonderful imagination of spirits
                            that inhabit the super-natural regions. While under this wonderful spell
                            of enchanting elixir, he rolled a lot of saw logs down a hill. They
                            bounded and leaped into the creek below; but when the magic spell was at
                            an end, he had to replace the timbers upon the mossy bluff whence they
                            came.
                        There also lived in this vicinity a man named "Cecil
                            Yockaby," whose eyes were becoming dimmed by age. He had his
                            eyesight tested by an oculist. He was told by the oculist that his sight
                            was pretty good, but that he needed glasses. When Yockaby went across
                            the way and took on seven glasses, he declared that he could see double;
                            and all believed it, for on going home he said to his son:
                            "Ristie, Ristie, if that big rock down there is a sow, go and
                            drive her up!" The young man smiled and suspected
                            "snakes."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER V.
                        As the days grew shorter and the nights grew longer, the pupils on East
                            Stillwater grew anxious for a spelling match. The teacher, Jason Minor,
                            to please the wily urchins, permitted them to announce to, Professor
                            Cunningham's school that there would be a spelling match at
                            their schoolhouse on Wednesday night. The teacher little suspected the
                            difficulties attending such occasions, not being acquainted with the
                            eccentricities of the people. The night came, and a large crowd was
                            assembled to greet the teacher. Professor Cunningham brought Molly
                            Bruno, and Blue Blossom came without a partner. The "Gray Cats
                            " and the Jackvillians were there; the Wolf Creekites and the
                            "'Calamus Eaters '' (from Brush
                            Creek) were also there. All any one had to say to the Brush Creek boys
                            was "calamus," and they were ready to fight. They used
                            calamus as perfume for their breath.
                        Some of the mischievous ones refused to engage in the spelling match,
                            reserving their time for fun. John Shular* and Lottie Bowman chose the
                            spellers, after having determined by lot who should have the first
                            choice. Soon the spellers were all chosen, and they *Founder of the Wallace High School. began to make havoc of the old Elementary
                            Spelling Book, whose every syllable was sounded with a jingle. They
                            spelled for some time, Professor Cunningham pronouncing at intervals.
                            Then came recess, and a jolly time it was. The boys and the girls
                            exchanged their loving courtesies. Then they resumed their spelling.
                            They soon began to tire; and when the teacher gave out
                            "buckle" to Blue Blossom, he missed it on purpose to
                            get an opportunity to talk to Molly Bruno. The teacher passed the word
                            to Zeb. Breant, who spelled it thus,
                            "B-u-e-c-k-l-e--c-u-e-c-k-l-e--e-c-k-l-e--c-u-c-k-l-e--y,"
                            which was the beginning of the end. Elijah Bayless waved the broom in
                            the air and shouted for Zeb. Breant as the hero of the match. This
                            aroused the ire of the Wolf Creek boys, and then came a shout:
                            "Calamus!" Soon the air was filled with flying
                            missiles. The "Gray Cats" came in and marched around
                            with a gray jug filled with "nectar of charm," and the
                            boys and the girls flew out at the windows and made for every safe place
                            of retreat. The teacher was in so much danger that he grabbed up his
                            three-legged stool, drew it down over his head, and ran out of the
                            house. Blue Blossom "stole a march" on Professor
                            Cunningham and escorted Molly Bruno home. She mounted the black charger,
                            behind Blue Blossom, and away they went, she feeling as safe in his
                            protection as if he were a king. He was delighted that he had achieved
                            this victory over Professor Cunningham.
                        
                        It is enough to say that nobody was killed, and that the house was left
                            standing. The teacher migrated to a Western clime and there became
                            Auditor of State. The noted "buckle" speller
                            afterwards became a scholar and a "Hardshell" Baptist
                            minister. He debated with Rev. Conner, a Campbellite minister, and
                            Breant rather got the best of the argument. Both loved the Lord, but the
                            shell of the one was about as hard as the shell of the other, only the
                            one drank all the wine and ate all the bread, to the exclusion of the
                            other; such was the ministering of the sacramental emblems.
                        At this time Dr. Rudasel had settled on the Chalk farm and established
                            the Lutheran Church, dispensing both theology and physic. He began
                            making inroads on the wily revelers from the east of Jackville; and as
                            the old bellman gives to the bell its sweet, sonorous tones on each
                            succeeding Lord's day, memory recalls his good work. Dr.
                            Rudasel lived a long and peaceful life; and although he has now passed
                            into that deep sleep that knows no waking, he has left a path of glory
                            in the sky.
                        By this time the nation had grown great and powerful, with but little
                            agitation, save over the slavery question and the annexation of Texas.
                            In this weird place the annexation fever was strong. At the presidential
                            election only one Whig vote was cast in Jackson Township; and Polk, who
                            was elected President, sent to Jackville by Ned Hanigan a box of
                            "Old Virginia" cigars for that township's
                            being the banner Democratic town-  ship in
                            the United States. It certainly was a great honor to be so complimented
                            by the chief ruler of so great a republic.
                        The old muster was still an order of the day; but its interest was
                            waning, owing to the power of the nation. There was now to be one more
                            great muster. It was along in the year 1856. George White's
                            farm, on Coal Creek, near the capital of Fountain County, was the
                            appointed place of muster. Harris Reynolds took great pains in arousing
                            his patriots for the occasion. Duart Cunningham, who was now famed for
                            his erudition, and who was drifting into politics, was chosen to make
                            one of his famous addresses, which savored of the Utopian. This was the
                            grandest muster of all, in which Montgomery County took no little part.
                            Bands of all kinds made the martial music of the day. Bass drums, snare
                            drums, fifes, and everything else that could sound a patriotic note
                            contributed to the din. Jackville went, with its patriots, troopers, and
                            gay lassies. There were jolly men in their beautifully-colored sashes
                            and their long-used muskets, which "Uncle Sam" had so
                            generously furnished them. Blue Blossom rode his black charger, and
                            Professor Cunningham rode as guest of honor. They arrived early in the
                            day, so as to muster in the forenoon. Summers was there with his
                            company, looking as grand as the famous six hundred at the battle of
                            Thermopylae. Harris Reynolds was commander in chief. He rode about the
                                 grounds, and his presence was one of
                            commanding dignity.
                        While the muster was proceeding in the morning, Professor Cunningham
                            availed himself of the opportunity to escort Molly Bruno and Ada Morgan
                            around the grounds and treat them to the delicious fruits and candies.
                            He was tall, of a commanding stature; and his peaceful bearing gave him
                            great dignity.
                        The noon hour soon came; and the dressed beef, as sweet as venison, which
                            was roasted over the fire in the good old way, was ravenously eaten.
                            This was the last muster, and the guns were to be turned in to
                            "Uncle Sam," who would keep them for a future
                            emergency. Professor Cunningham was to make this patriotic address. This
                            gave Blue Blossom an opportunity to pay his respects to Molly Bruno,
                            which he did with the air of a king. His plump form was beautiful; his
                            cheeks were fair, tinged with the glow of youth; and when on his flying
                            charger, he looked like a chivalrous knight. It seemed as though his
                            path were redolent with clover. The people surmised that he would get
                            the better of Professor Cunningham, although Mr. Bruno and his wife were
                            against him--a good omen, however, for an objecting parent is generally
                            foiled in the end. Whether the Lord wills it or not, I cannot say; but
                            happiness is life in this short realm of nature before that deep sleep
                            out of which no sleeper awakes. Cupid's fiery dart, springing
                            from an endless  bow, which is the charm of
                            the soul, is sure to win the enchanting prize. Love, so like the
                            unchanging sun, is true to all--a jewel to every warm, pulsating heart.
                            Professor Cunningham, with his majestic manner and fluent speech, put
                            the people under the spell of his oratory; and he was there talked of as
                            a candidate for the Legislature.
                        When the programme was over, the patriots marched around and stacked the
                            old firelocks, to be put into wagons and taken to the capital of
                            Fountain County. The people returned to their homes, sorrowful, after
                            having abandoned this old work which their remote ancestors had
                            established and which was pronounced a quick medicine for an offending
                            foe. On returning home, all believed that the nation was safe with such
                            a patriotic spirit prevalent among the people.
                        
                            O, flag of our nation, wave o'er us still,
                            A boon on distant seas!
                            Thy annals be great and glorious till
                            Master of future mysteries.
                        
                        
                            Speak of thy glorious victories won
                            On many a hard-fought field;
                            Speak of thy christening and renown.
                            Thy heroes never can yield.
                        
                        Again winter was at hand, the earth being covered with snow; and the
                            jolly youngsters began to enjoy the fruits of their labors. The whirring
                            vehicles had not  yet made their
                            appearance, but the pole sleigh and the jingling bells broke the
                            stillness of many a rural place. There was a party at Captain
                            Hybarger's. Blue Blossom drove over in his sleigh, which he had
                            christened "Ida Louis," and took Molly Bruno to the
                            party. All the nighboring boys and girls were there, dressed in their
                            best for the occasion. Professor Cunningham had on his swallow-tailed
                            coat; he looked like a "city swell." He asked Molly
                            Bruno to slight Blue Blossom and allow him to escort her home. She was
                            willing to keep company with him, but would not agree to this
                            proposition. Ada Morgan was there, as winsome as a beau- tiful pearl;
                            but she had not that magnetic appearance of Molly Bruno, whose pretty
                            brown eyes were so bewitching, while her golden earlocks hung in curls
                            of enchantment about her beautiful face. Molly Bruno treated the
                            Professor with great courtesy. Clara Shanks enjoyed the party, not
                            knowing the fate of beautiful flowers.
                        The time came for the young folks to go home. The gentlemen assisted the
                            ladies with their wraps. When Blue Blossom went to get his hat, it was
                            gone; no search could reveal its whereabouts. It seemed that it was the
                            trick of a slighted lover. But Blue Blossom was not to be outdone. He
                            drew from his pocket a red bandanna, tied it around his head, and away
                            he and Molly Bruno went for home, scudding along over the snow to the
                            music of tinkling bells. His black charger seemed to  realize Blue Blossom's condition
                            and went the faster. Molly Bruno enjoyed many a good laugh at the red
                            bandanna incident.
                        "Molly, will you not give me your entire attention?"
                            asked Blue Blossom.
                        "Mr. Oliver, that would mean the destruction of our
                            courtship," replied Molly, very kindly. "You know
                            papa's great friendship for Professor Cunningham, who is a very
                            good man; and I have kept his companyvto hide my love for you from lny
                            father."
                        "For God's sake, Molly! Am I destroying your hap-
                            piness?" asked Blue Blossom.
                        "No; not at all, Mr. Oliver," said Molly.
                        "Then some day I will come and claim you as mine," said
                            Blue Blossom.
                        Molly made no reply, for her kind heart had passed through many trying
                            ordeals.
                        Blue Blossom arrived safely at home, victorious over his rival.
                        The Professor convoyed Ada Morgan home, and Robley Huts escorted Clara
                            Shanks.
                        The proverb, "All is fair in love and war," seemed to
                            be the rule with these rivals. The vernal days were here; the lovely
                            rays of the sun fell upon the earth, bringing Nature to the fullness of
                            her glory. The birds in the trees sung songs of love to the awaking
                            bulbs of never-dying flowers. The warmth of the spring days melted
                            youthful hearts into loving passion, and 
                            God's attachment of kindred beings was inevitable. The silver
                            rays of Diana shimmered through the boughs of the trees on Wolf Creek.
                            Beautiful Clara Shanks went forth, a sweet rose of summer. Her
                            immaculate dress 
                                WOLF CREEK POOL, WHERE CLARA SHANKS WAS FOUND DEAD.
                             bespoke her virtues, modesty, and simplicity. Chafing under
                            some of the restraints of her parents and the slight offenses of others,
                            she went over to a neighbor's to redeem her sacred honor, which
                            had been slightly marred by the fiery tongues of busybodies. Lit-  tie did her parents dream that she would
                            never return. A wonderful mystery it is. No one on earth can tell how
                            the spirit of beautiful Clara Shanks took its departure, whether by
                            violence or by self-destruction (rumor has many theories); but when the
                            Lord unrolls his recording judgment scroll, there may appear a picture
                            that will startle the souls of men. The mortal remains of the beautiful
                            Clara Shanks were found between the high walls at the falls of ancient
                            Wolf Creek in the placid waters of the wild, meandering stream.
                        
                            The waters played upon her breast,
                            And tears were in her eyes;
                            Her cheeks were pale and cold in death;
                            Her soul adorned the skies.
                        
                        
                            Could she but come and tell the tale
                            From her warm, beating heart!
                            Could she reveal her death of woe--
                            How came she to depart!
                        
                        
                            God has forbid; it cannot be.
                            'Twould harm some peaceful breast.
                            Great souls of mortals sleep in peace;
                            Unmindful, sweetly rest.
                        
                        
                            He who encompasses the globe,
                            Living immortality,
                            Calls the wand'ring traveler home,
                            Blissful eternity.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VI.
                        There is generally a long quiet before a storm. The elements,
                            counteracting each other, bring about a great calm, broken only by a
                            gentle zephyr; but as warm winds begin to blow from the south, the
                            rifting, gray clouds arise from the western horizon, thickening and
                            gathering, filled from the fountain of waters. At certain intervals
                            great agitation arose over the slavery question, threatening to deluge
                            the land. The famous Dred Scott decision by Judge Taney in 1857
                            electrified some of the Northern States, which passed personal-liberty
                            laws, declaring void that decision, or, in other words, nullifying it.
                            This was a part of the work of the "Know-nothing"
                            party, so called from their great silence, at once calling to mind the
                            proverb: "Still water runs deep." This party formed an
                            organization the purpose of which was to carry escaping negroes to the
                            Dominion of Canada. The mode of transportation was called "The
                            Underground Railroad." It was soon well organized, with
                            conductors and stations and a few emissaries promoting their traffic.
                            The Democratic party stood by the decision of Judge Taney and objected
                            to this mode of procedure. It took a long time for the  people of Jackville to become aroused over
                            such affairs; but when they did feel the impulse of it, it was like a
                            desperate conflagration, consuming all before it. Peaceful now as they
                            were, they did not wish to be disturbed. This Know-nothing party
                            naturally formed the Republican party, the corner stone of which was the
                            betterment of the condition of the slaves. Rev. Sol. McKinney went to
                            Kentucky from Montgomery County, Ind., and preached the freedom of the
                            blacks. He was horse-whipped and run out of the S ate. The Republicans
                            commenced running this "railroad" on a gigantic scale.
                            Darkness was the road, secrecy was the steam, and any kind of locomotion
                            was the car. The road did not run straight; it ran in many directions.
                            It worked best in Republican localities, where there were the most
                            conductors. The houses at which fugitives stopped were called
                            "stations;" those that assisted the refugees from
                            place to place were called "conductors." Garrets,
                            cellars, barns, thickets, and cornfields were the hiding places of the
                            fugitives. There were many different signs used at stations. Between
                            Bloomingdale and Annapolis, at a Mr. Ruebottom's, there was an
                            old rocking-chair set out on an upper porch, which signified to the
                            runaways that it was a place to stop and rest. Another sign in
                            Montgomery County, one mile north of Alamo, was used by Hiram Powell,
                            who had sold his slaves in Kentucky and settled here. He painted the
                            tops of his chimneys black as a sign of refuge. There was a line of
                            railroad  run from Parke County, by Alamo,
                            to the station at Joab Elliott's. He owned a hewn log house,
                            built in 1830. The upper part of the house had a large garret, 
                                JOAB ELLIOTT'S UNDERGROUND RAILROAD STATION.
                             which was used as a hiding place for slaves till "a
                            more convenient season." The house, which is one-half mile
                            north of Alamo, is still standing as an historic relic of those trying
                            slavery days. The conductors  on this line
                            were Thomas Elmore, William Gilkey, and Dr. Brown. Thence the line ran
                            to Yountville. There the station was a small house, on Sugar Creek,
                            owned and run by Abijah O'Neal. The slaves were thence sent to
                            Crawfordsville, in the care of John Speed and Fisher Doherty, who sent
                            them on. Mr. Doherty had as many as eight slaves in his station at one
                            time. A large sorrel horse owned by Mr. Gilkey, was the principal mode
                            of transportation from Alamo to Yountville. At one time six negroes were
                            kept in Mr. Gilkey's cornfield, east of Alamo, for a week. When
                            Thomas Elmore discovered that the Democrats were "on
                            to" the secret, he said to Dr. Brown: "Those negroes
                            must go to town to-night." That evening he brought his old gray
                            horse, got Gilkey's sorrel animal, hitched them to
                            Gilkey's wagon, and started for Crawfordsville. He reached
                            Doherty's about midnight. As Elmore had forgotten the password
                            and Doherty was not at home, Mrs. Doherty would not receive his dusky
                            freight. So Elmore hastened to Mr. Speed, who took charge of them. He
                            put a ladder against the house, and the negroes climbed, through a small
                            hole, into the garret and awaited further shipment.
                        An escaping negro was seen in the woods east of Alamo by Ira Compton, who
                            was hunting. Sugar Creek was swollen, by reason of recent rains. Compton
                            pretended that he would capture the negro, who plunged into the stream
                            above a large drift and swam to the  middle
                            of the creek, catching to a snag. Compton frightened him with his gun,
                            causing him to loose his hold on the snag, and he was drowned. His
                            remains were quietly buried on the peaceful bank of Sugar Creek.
                        The Constitution of the United States and the ordinance for the
                            government of the territory northwest of the Ohio River contained
                            clauses for the arrest and return of fugitives from labor, but the
                            Northern people did not like the business. The first fugitive slave law
                            was enacted in 1793, the penalty for harboring or secreting a slave
                            being five hundred dollars. The question of greater protection to
                            slaveholders was before the United States Congress in 1796 and in 1801;
                            and from 1817 to 1822 still further efforts were made, but nothing was
                            done until 1848. How great a loss the Southern States sustained by this
                            institution will never be known. John A. Quitman, once Governor of
                            Mississippi, declared that under the Act of 1793 the State of
                            Mississippi had lost thirty million dollars by the one hundred thousand
                            slaves abducted in 1850. The penalty for harboring a slave was increased
                            to one thousand dollars, but still the practice went on. While this
                            increased penalty gave some satisfaction to the South, it was most
                            galling to some of the Northern States.
                        It is said that the name "underground railroad"
                            originated with Tice Davids, of Kentucky. He was pursuing a slave; and
                            the slave very suddenly disappear-  ing at
                            Ripley, O., Davids remarked: "Surely that negro has gone off on
                            an underground railroad."
                        The mysterious organization referred to had its president, who gave
                            orders and kept the machinery in motion. Levi Coffin, for thirty years
                            reputed president of the road, was perhaps more widely known than any
                            other man in the service. His house, at Fountain City, Ind., was a
                            central station for three roads from the Ohio River. There were men who
                            sought out trusty individuals, to whom they would send printed notices
                            of the organization of a new road and ask them to be ready to receive
                            visitors at any hour of the night. In order to secure their safety they
                            were informed as to who kept the next station. Between 1842 and 1862
                            over one thousand fugitives passed over one of these roads to Canada,
                            where the abolition sentiment was strong. The road spread out like a
                            great vine, drawing the runaways to combined centers. There was gener-
                            ally a written statement sent in advance of the fugitive caravan, such
                            as the following:
                        "ROCKVILLE, Saturday Morning. "Jonathan Bowls: Business
                            is arranged for Saturday night. .Be on the lookout; and, if possible,
                            come with a wagon to meet the train. DODGE."
                        "Dear Fisher: Uncle Jack says that if the weather is fair, look
                            for those three fleeces of black wool to- morrow night. Send them to the
                            nearest market. No back charges. Yours, JINKS."
                        
                        Some of the letters stated the number of passengers as "three
                            sacks of black wool," etc. Each section had its own signs. At
                            Oberlin, O., there hung out, from an upper window of the home of Rev.
                            John Rankin, the life-size picture of a runaway negro. Disguising the
                            slaves played an important part in their escape. Wigs, bonnets, veils,
                            powders, and the like were extensively used. Such things as these in
                            such a Democratic stronghold as Jackville would naturally arouse the ire
                            of the people, and especially when these things came under their own
                            observation. To-day many beautiful stories are told of the escapades and
                            of the sly schemes, which were not so pleasant to all concerned. Some
                            had to lose in human chattels, and none gained, save the poor black man
                            who had fled for his freedom. Some of these scenes were weird and full
                            of dramatic interest.
                        In 1858 a mulatto girl about twenty years old, neat and comely and
                            possessed of some education, reached the home of John Speed, of
                            Crawfordsville, Ind. She was secreted in the garret over the old log,
                            kitchen, where fugitives were usually kept when there was danger. Owing
                            to the presence of her pursuers in the neighborhood she had to remain
                            there several days. Suspicion finally rested on Mr. Speed. He began to
                            receive visits from strange men, who came to inquire the price of live
                            stock, and remained to catch a glimpse, if possible, of the escaped
                            slave. The girl's place of hiding was seen to be no longer
                            safe; so one  dark night she was hurried
                            "across lots" to a colored family named
                            "Patterson." Here she was arrayed in as fine a costume
                            of silk and ribbons as it was possible to procure at that time. She was
                            then furnished with a white baby, borrowed for the occasion; and thus
                            disguised as a lady and accompanied by one of the Patterson girls as
                            servant and nurse, she boarded the train at the station. Great was the
                            shock she felt when she found herself in the same car with her master,
                            who, having failed to discover her in the neighborhood, was setting out
                            now to watch for her at the end of the line. Her courage and ladylike
                            composure did not desert her, however; and Detroit, Mich., was reached
                            in safety. Here she boarded a ferryboat for the Canadian side. As the
                            boat was about to start, she sent ashore her pretended maid, with the
                            borrowed baby; and just as the gang plank was being raised, she lifted
                            her veil, that she might bid her owner good-by. The master's
                            display of anger as he gazed at his departing slave was as real as the
                            situation was gratifying to her and amusing to the bystanders.
                        The men who risked so much in this contraband contented themselves with
                            the idea that they were obeying a higher law than the one they were
                            violating. The dividing line between the free and the bond was known as
                            "Mason and Dixon's line." These wretched
                            people cut many capers on reaching Canada. They laughed, they cried,
                            they kissed the earth, and they embraced 
                            each other, each exclaiming: " Bress de Lawd, I'se
                            free befo' I die!"
                        In the Democratic stronghold of Jackville the people naturally
                            sympathized with their brethren in the South, and no little malice was
                            slumbering in the deep recesses of their hearts. Dr. Rudasel was still
                            doing his good work at the Lutheran Church. On one occasion, after
                            services, the pious Professor was promenading with Molly Bruno. Blue
                            Blossom still maintained his stately air; and, on meeting the Professor
                            and Molly, he slightly tipped his hat and courteously said:
                            "Good morning!" Molly, under the surveillance of her
                            father, with a sweet smile, said: "Good morning, Mr.
                            Oliver!" She well knew that Blue Blossom would understand the
                            situation. Molly's actions toward the Professor served to
                            satisfy her father, who was a quiet, good man, overanxious in regard to
                            the suitors of his daughter. Blue Blossom joined Ada Morgan, and the
                            quartet strolled through the beautiful cemetery, where some of the old
                            settlers lay at rest. A budding rose, a blooming flower, now and then
                            grew upon the grassy mounds that marked their silent resting places.
                            These beautiful flowers recalled the vigor of the youthful days of those
                            who had long ago passed away; and as the party surrounded the grave of
                            Clara Shanks and the once beautiful Nettie Sowers, tears started from
                            their eyes as they thought of the tragic end of both these girls. A  vacancy, a chasm, was in their hearts
                            which could never be filled. Like the dew of heaven, this sweet memory
                            lingered as nothing else in their lives. It seems that hearts are made
                            better by these solemn endearments. God, who speaks in every breeze,
                            whispered through the pines these solemn thoughts. Molly Bruno seemed to
                            be in a state of melancholy, so strong was her attachment for Blue
                            Blossom; but she did not reveal her state of mind to her companions. Her
                            heart yearned to be free, but she could subdue her feelings for the sake
                            of others. As they meditated upon the lives of their two friends and
                            their tragic ends, it made them low-spirited. They knew the wheel of
                            fate was sure, but would it be peaceful with them? Ada Morgan--poor
                            girl!--had sacrificed her pleasure on many occasions; but she lived to
                            make others happy, and well she knew the sorrow of Molly Bruno. She had
                            often been the means of relieving Molly from the pressure of these two
                            rivals. Gay, young, and sweet, she moved with an air of modesty. She
                            seemed almost a supernatural being, capable of magnetism.
                        Robley Huts and Elsie McClain joined the party, and they strolled along
                            to the bubbling spring, where circling little waves played against the
                            green, interlacing water cress lying along the shady little stream. At
                            this place, which appeared like a haven of dreams, they abode for a time
                            and talked of the masterly sermon of Dr. Rudasel. He was quite
                            proficient in the  dead languages, besides
                            being a doctor of medicine and a protector of souls. It is seldom that
                            such great power is found in the life of one man. They recalled the many
                            happy days that they had spent together. The corn huskings were over;
                            the lively dances, the life of a new country, were not so frequent. This
                            impressive change dawned upon them; they also thought of the wings of
                            time as the river of life broadens as it majestically winds its way
                            through the world. Molly Bruno, though entertaining, was deeply affected
                            at heart, and her gentle spirit gave an impression of the soul. As one
                            looked into her sweet face, her brown eyes, so dreamlike, but spoke of
                            her deep meditation. Professor Cunningham spoke of the velocity of the
                            brook, as he noted the tiny pieces of bark afloat upon its surface.
                        By this time Blue Blossom had made a swing in the boughs of a tree, and
                            was swinging Ada Morgan in his gentle, childlike manner.
                        "Ah," said Molly Bruno, in her heart, "that is
                            life. Away with cold philosophy for me! I love the simplicity of
                            nature."
                        Age had given the Professor his sedentary habits and deep turn of mind,
                            which Molly Bruno detested. She arose and asked the Professor to excuse
                            her while she took a swing with Ada Morgan. Molly seated herself in the
                            swing, and Blue Blossom gently swung her and Ada, Blue
                            Blossom's heart beat with ardor, as he whis-  pered in Molly's ear (when
                            Professor Cunningham was not looking) that he would like to come over on
                            Sunday evening. A sweet smile in her eye and a gentle bow of her head
                            gave the desired reply.
                        A whip-poor-will announced the setting of the sun, when comes
                            night's sable curtain upon the earth and bids repose to the
                            weary world. The party then made their way along the rippling brook, by
                            the old church, toward home. "Good-by,"
                            "Good-by" was echoed from lover and lass; and they
                            strolled along leisurely, hand in hand, to where abide the blessings of
                            peace.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VII.
                        Rumors of war had been heard in Jackville over the great slavery
                            question, which was constantly growing warmer. The election of 1860
                            showed to the world the growing strength of modern thought. Men preached
                            according to the dominant idea of the people of the locality in which
                            they lived; none dared to enter a community and teach any other than the
                            political ideas cherished by its people. The nation's troubles
                            were not theirs, where sectionalism was dominant, unless forced to take
                            a part by the grim hand of power. Agitation after agitation in the
                            United States Congress finally led to secession and dissolution, which
                            was bound to affect Jackville, which was like the little republic of
                            Switzerland. The name of the post offie at this place was now changed to
                            "Wallace," by the Governor of the State, giving to it
                            his own name. Later, by an Apt of the Legislature, the town was given
                            the same name; but it still retains its prehistoric name,
                            "Jackville." The call of the President of the United
                            States for troops was not respected. Still, the storm cloud was
                            gathering and lowering. The elements were full of the fiery fumes of
                            war. The aurora  of the northern sky shone
                            in grand display, which aroused the minds of the superstitious as
                            foreboding a great and terrible struggle. These beautiful lights of the
                            north still recall these great events as tradition comes flying down the
                            annals of time.
                        Harris Reynolds, the great Democratic hero of the day, was looked upon as
                            the guardian and protector of Jackville. He was consulted on all
                            occasions. He was sometimes abused, but he was still master of the
                            situation; and he was the greatest distiller in the community.
                        The South, to meet the ravages of the "Underground
                            Railroad," had instituted the "Acorn," with
                            signs and passwords. The members were known by the Republican party as
                            "Knights of the Golden Circle." It had spread out
                            until it had reached this rural place, and had grown wonderful in
                            magnitude. In this great struggle, owing to their political faith, the
                            scriptural prophecy of setting father against son and brother against
                            brother was being fulfilled. The "Acorn," like a great
                            sponge, absorbed all those of the same political party for miles around,
                            keeping in touch with the chief orders in the cities of Terre Haute,
                            Indianapolis, and Chicago. This organization was not against the
                            government; but its chief purpose was to stop the secret transportation
                            of 'slaves. However, it was fast turning to self-interest,
                            its' members using it to protect themselves against being
                            drafted and forced into the war against their will.
                        Professor Cunningham still taught the growing youth  of the little village, giving light to the soul, paving the
                            way to nobler manhood; Blue Blossom, who belonged to the yeomanry, still
                            tilled the soil-a happy, friendly being.
                        Jacob Riley Dodge was wealthy and rugged, and was rather a peculiar man
                            for the times. He visited his sweetheart one Sunday evening; and, on
                            meeting her father, he introduced himself as "Mr. Jacob Riley
                            Dodge, son of old Jake, who tans his own leather and makes his own
                            shoes." To be sure, this pleased the gray-haired sire.
                        The noble William Allen-a man of profound wisdom and courage--with his
                            loud nasal twang, still expounded the gospel at Wolf Creek Church. He
                            taught, preached, and set the example of a servant of God.
                            "Auld Lang Syne" and "Nearer, My God, to
                            Thee," broke the stillness of many a Sabbath morning. As the
                            songs were sung with the quaver of long meter, they beset the soul with
                            visions of love.
                        Blue Blossom and Molly Bruno went over to Wolf Creek to church, and the
                            good old Baptist minister bade them a happy "Good
                            morning!" He was a great admirer of Mr. Bruno. They enjoyed the
                            day in the lovely valley of Wolf Creek, never dreaming of the noted
                            events that might take place there in time to come. The wild and
                            rippling stream went running and splashing and dashing through its
                            channel of time. In their happy rambles and gentle conversation, Blue
                            Blos-  som, buoyed up by a full heart,
                            said: "Molly, I would to God that you were mine; but how dare I
                            take you from an objecting parent ?"
                        Molly Bruno, with a heaving breast, responded: "Mr. Oliver, as
                            Eve became unto Adam, so I would become unto thee."
                        These words rendered their hearts tender and thoughtful. Blue Blossom
                            sought to win the good will of Mr. Bruno, who was so attached to
                            Professor Cunningham.
                        The next wind from the east wafted to this locality news of the
                            bombardment of Fort Sumter. A call for volunteers came from the
                            President of the United States. A few in these rural haunts responded.
                            In a short time some of them deserted the cause, and officers came
                            searching the country for them. This agitated the people. The
                            "Acorn" was in full blast, and its members discussed
                            the situation in their secret meetings. As the nation fell short of men,
                            the draft Act became a law; and the riots in the streets of New York
                            raised dissatisfaction in many places. In this place the people became
                            desperate, as they desired to take no part in the rebellion. Professor
                            Cunningham was called upon many times to make speeches on the question
                            of the rights of the people and on constitutional law, and he moved the
                            people with his eloquence.
                        Thus things went from bad to worse. William 
                            Geeting and J. Russell got into a, heated discussion; and Geeting
                            stabbed Russell, killing him. Then Geeting went to the war as a balm for
                            his act. He was a man of fine physique and a gallant soldier.
                        The friends of "Old Hickory" erected a hickory pole in
                            the heat of the campaign in memory of the sainted old war horse of New
                            Orleans. The weather becoming cool, Riley Osborn went out one morning to
                            cut the pole down for wood. Squire Hybarger, having awakened from his
                            peaceful slumbers, discovered the transgressor in his rash act and
                            discharged his trusty six-shooter at Osborn, who hastily retreated.
                        The increased revenue on whisky also bore heavily upon the people and
                            caused dissatisfaction.
                        Mr. Bruno was still running the mill, and the Professor had a longing for
                            the enchanting music of the mill and the loving heart of the beautiful
                            miller, whose every charm fascinated his soul. Molly Bruno received him
                            with courtesy, and the distant, murmuring sounds of the mill caused them
                            to reflect on the primeval days of the world. Mr. Bruno did all the
                            distilling, making the fiery "elixir of life" go
                            coursing its way through the worm of the still. The Professor spoke to
                            Molly of the troublesome war; but she--sweet darling!--gave it no
                            thought, for her mind was upon her work and the simple pleasures of
                            life.
                        The government had sent John McBailey, an enrolling officer, into
                            Jackville, preparatory to the draft. Oppo- 
                            sition was high, and a Mr. Morgan and some others tried to capture
                            McBailey. They were stanch "Acorn" men. McBailey
                            reported them, and they ran him away; and for this they were arrested.
                            The night recognition sign was, "See that star;" the
                            answer was: "I see." The day sign was the right hand
                            closed and raised, with the thumb to the right shoulder; the distress
                            words were, "O, Coon!" and tradition has it that the
                            bottom of the right pantaloons leg turned up was a means of recognizing
                            an "Acorn" man. If an "Acorn" man
                            heard the distress words, he would go to the assistance of the person
                            giving them. The lodge password was "Agrippa." When
                            arrested, Mr. Morgan had his trusty gun in a fence corner near him, with
                            a good "Navy" six-shooter in his boot leg. He was a
                            kind of walking artillery. Mr. Morgan was taken by the soldiers to
                            Alamo, where they were given a banquet. They did not invite Mr. Morgan
                            to eat, but left him to hunger. The warm-hearted landlady, Miss Fishero,
                            served him with the best that her board could furnish, thus forming a
                            tie of friendship that would never be severed. A young horseman, named
                            "Samuel Bruner," of Jackville, followed them to Alamo.
                            Alighting from his horse near Luthern near a little creek, he pealed a
                            strip of leatherwood bark, tied it around some butternuts, made a string
                            of beads, hung it around his neck, and proceeded to Alamo, where he
                            astonished the natives with his wonderful audacity in riding through the
                            streets displaying his colors, which  the
                            people thought were averse to the Union. He still persisted in
                            displaying his colors, though the people talked of vengeance and of
                            stripping him of his 
                                A BUTTERNUT BREASTPIN.
                             dazzling array of jewelry. He continued to do as he pleased in
                            this patriotic little town, until he retired in good order by the
                            persuasion of a friend. The arrest of Mr. Morgan was accomplished by
                            Barney Russell, a  valiant Union soldier,
                            of Crawfordsville. Alamo sent more men to the war than any other, town
                            of its size in the State.
                        In those days it was not uncommon to see men wearing butternut
                            breastpins, revealing their party affiliation; and many a hard-fought
                            fisticuff took place over the snatching of a butternut breastpin from
                            its wearer. In many cases the courts were called upon to decide these
                            cases, bringing into court this paraphernalia of butternuts, large and
                            small. Especially was this true in Montgomery County, where the soldiers
                            relieved some civilians of these breastpins. Samuel Wilson defended the
                            civilians; Gen. Lew. Wallace defended the soldiers. The court acquitted
                            the latter. Mr. Morgan was taken to Crawfordsville, where he was the
                            center of attraction about the halls of justice until he was released.
                            Aside from his political sympathies, he was considered a model man.
                        Jacob Riley Dodge met a man one day. Desiring to know if the man belonged
                            to the "Golden Circle" and forgetting the day sign, he
                            asked: "Do you see that star?"
                        "No," said the man; "I don't see any
                            star here in the daytime."
                        Dodge turned away, determined to study more closely the workings of
                            nebulous matter.
                        Blue Blossom worked hard at his occupation, contentedly trying to earn a
                            competency for two. As he  was drawn into
                            this center of trouble by his love of the fair, he was sure to be drawn
                            into the folds of the "Acorn;" for, according to the
                            adage, "When in Rome, one must do as Rome does." He
                            never shrank from a duty, and he distinguished himself for
                            gallantry.
                        Professor Cunningham, being desirous to know his future life, called upon
                            a fortune teller. She took some cards and shuffled them; then she dealt
                            them to interpret the signs. Always, on nearing the queens, there seemed
                            to be some one appearing in a dark shadow. The wizard interpreted this
                            to mean opposition; but life seemed bright and lovely, as his token was
                            always associated with the kings and other high cards. So she revealed
                            these things to him, as the ancient astrologers revealed them to the
                            people; but she intimated that by persistent effort he might be able to
                            remove the shadow and overcome his rival. Then, with all his magnetic
                            powers, he began his suit. Being blessed with a good salary, he was able
                            to be more stylish and to have more of the luxuries of life than his
                            rustic rival. As he was a constant reader, he had a great many beautiful
                            stories at his command; and VMolly Bruno, perchance, had listened to
                            almost all of them, as the old log fire had glowed and sputtered and
                            sparkled, casting their silhouette upon the wall. Perhaps old Father
                            Bruno had watched this flickering sheen and dreamed dreams of their
                            future happiness. He could see them going down through those enchanted
                            bow-  ers, as though he were under a charm.
                            It was like the front view of a medieval castle--everything bright, with
                            a glow of splendor to catch the sparkling eye of the beholder; while in
                            the background was the real home of the peaceful master, living and
                            loving and enjoying life. The Professor gave an intimation of his desire
                            for her hand; but she, in her childish way, seemed not to understand;
                            and the misty veil of night still darkened his way.
                        The draft Act was the talk of the day, and many declared that they would
                            never go to war. To assist the Union cause, George Lay, from near
                            Waveland, talked of establishing Union lodges in Jackson Township, which
                            the Jackvillians interpreted as meaning to assist in enrolling the men
                            for the draft; so they gave him notice to keep away. Flame added to
                            flame, until there was a furnace of fury. Captain Budd, from Judson, and
                            George Lay, with the home guards, came over, looking for deserters. They
                            stopped at the home of Captain Summers and demanded breakfast, but no
                            deserters were found. The soldiers tore down his corn pens, fed in the
                            yard, and threw five hundred bushels of corn upon the ground. They then
                            commanded little Frankey Summers to show them the way to a
                            neighbor's, where they thought the deserters were hiding.
                            Frankey refused to go; whereupon they pushed him against the wall; stuck
                            their bayonets, close to his neck, into the wall; and bore them together
                            against his  neck; and still he refused to
                            go. When his father said, "Frankey, you had better go, or they
                            will hurt you," he complied with their orders. But it was of no
                            avail; they found no deserters. The father's advice to Frankey
                            was a little like the remark of Sir Francis 
                                FRANKEY SUMMERS' EXPERIENCE WITH THE SOLDIERS.
                             Drake, who laid his whiskers aside when about to be beheaded,
                            saying: "It is a pity to have that cut which has done no
                            harm."
                        In a neighboring town lived a noted attorney, who was hunted for
                            belonging to the "Acorn." The sol-  diers came to his house while he, was in
                            his kitchen. There was no chance for retreat; so he jumped into a flour
                            barrel, and his wife adjusted the cover. The soldiers did not find him,
                            however; but the secret was soon revealed, and he was ever afterwards,
                            called "Flour-barrel Jimmy." Later he was elected as a
                            member of the Supreme Court of the State.
                        It seemed that the climax would now come,, so desperate had the situation
                            become. Godlove S. Orth had been nominated for the United States
                            Congress by the Republicans, and he had set a date to speak in
                            Jackville, which was against the wishes of the Democratic party. The day
                            came, and Orth arrived, filled with the "oil of joy"
                            to nerve him to withstand the wily "Acorn" men. At
                            every sound of his voice there was a hiss or a groan. Then came shouts
                            for Reynolds. Orth was completely overwhelmed, and asked Reynolds to
                            speak; but Reynolds declined. Finally he was persuaded to speak. Orth
                            might have known better, for Reynolds was a man of convictions and was
                            as brave as a lion. At every echo of his voice came cheer after cheer,
                            and Orth was listening. Reynolds declared that rather than have the
                            people go to war he would see every sprig of grass in Jackville wet with
                            their blood. This was an echo of the sentiment of the people. On
                            returning to Lafayette, Orth had Reynolds arrested. This only added fuel
                            to the flames. Colonel McManaway, who came to arrest Reynolds, could not
                            find him. Reynolds had got  a
                            "tip" of the proceedings and was on the lookout; and
                            while Colonel McManaway and his soldiers were in Reynolds'
                            house, Reynolds was looking in at the window at them, thinking of the
                            power of gunpowder, with two "Navy" revolvers in his
                            hands. He retired, however, to the sulphur spring, in the west end of
                            the town, and sent a messenger to Colonel McManaway. The good officer
                            left his guards and went to Reynolds. At the request of Reynolds, who
                            agreed to keep the peace, Colonel McManaway went to Crawfordsville and
                            telegraphed to the Governor that Reynolds could not be found. The
                            Governor replied: "Stay till you get him." Colonel
                            McManaway came back and had another secret meeting with Reynolds, who
                            agreed to go to Indianapolis if Colonel McManaway would see that he was
                            not mistreated and would let him go as a citizen. Colonel McManaway then
                            sent his guards away, they not knowing what had taken place.
                        The next morning Reynolds appeared, and he and Colonel McManaway started
                            to Indianapolis. They had gone but a short distance, when Reynolds
                            stopped at the home of Mr. Shular to get some
                            "nervine." Mr. Shular was not at home, but Mrs. Shular
                            told Reynolds that she had some fresh and good
                            "nervine" in the smokehouse, and that he could help
                            himself.
                        Seeing that Reynolds was greatly troubled, Mrs. Shular asked him:
                            "Mr. Reynolds, where are you going?"
                        
                        "To heaven, I hope; but to h--l, I suppose," replied
                            Reynolds.
                        Owing to the pressure of the times, Blue Blossom could not get to see
                            Molly Bruno as often as usual, and it seemed as if the Professor would
                            win her; but when Blue Blossom did get to see her, the sun shone
                            brighter and the earth was filled with joy. Mr. Bruno, who seemed not to
                            understand the fervency of love, was pleased that Blue Blossom saw Molly
                            so seldom.
                        One bright Sabbath morning Blue Blossom, in passing Mr. Bruno's,
                            saw Molly sitting in a commodious swing. "Good morning, Molly!
                            " said he.
                        "Good morning, Mr. Oliver!" she responded, joyfully.
                            "Come in and enjoy a swing."
                        "No, darling; I'd rather take a walk,"
                            responded Blue Blossom.
                        "Your choice is my pleasure, Mr. Oliver," said Molly;
                            and, putting on her bonnet, she tripped along and met him at the gate
                            for a ramble.
                        As in all ages lovers, have desired to be alone, where the deep truths of
                            affection may reveal the mystic ways of happiness, so it was in this
                            case. Here Blue Blossom told Molly, in an open declaration of his soul,
                            that some day he would come and claim her as his own: and he asked her
                            to be faithful to him. Her sweet lips were pressed to his lips with the
                            true seal of love. They returned by the mill, where she had often ground
                            the golden grain and sung sweet songs to the  music of the mill. The stillness of the hour brought about a
                            tranquillity and quietude of soul not often experienced. As the eventide
                            approached, a gentle twilight adorned the western sky.
                        "Good-by, Molly! " said Blue Blossom; and, with a
                            gentle clasp of her hand, he departed.
                        Molly, with a faint heart, leaned upon the gate and watched his departing
                            form fade slowly out of sight. That picture lingered with her for some
                            time after he had gone.
                        The election that fall was disastrous to Orth. Through the advice of
                            Reynolds, the Democrats tried to get all the Republicans to vote before
                            noon; and at noon Reynolds showed his hospitality by taking the members
                            of the election board home for dinner. The ballot box was placed in a
                            front room, the doors were closed and locked, and the board was soon
                            enjoying Reynolds' sumptuous dinner. While this was taking
                            place, two confederates (John C------ and Clinton R-----), with a
                            duplicate key, entered the front door, opened the ballot box, took out
                            all the Republican votes, and put in as many Democratic votes. They then
                            retired, locking the door behind them. Four more Republicans voted after
                            dinner. One of this number put his folded ticket into his pocket, and,
                            on reaching in after it, pulled out his road receipt and voted it,
                            leaving but three votes for Godlove S. Orth. "The way of the
                            transgressor is hard," but Orth was thought  to be amply repaid for having caused the
                            arrest of Reynolds.
                        All sectional strife was put away, the "hatchet" was
                            buried, and the men began to form companies. Some of them marched west
                            of the village to a place known as the "fox field,"
                            and rumor said that they wore their coats wrong side out so as to
                            recognize each other.
                        Mr. Summers, with three hundred men, went to Rockville to muster. They
                            were ordered to leave, and not to return, by the home guards, as though
                            they were the guardians of the city; but in six weeks they returned,
                            eleven hundred strong, marched about the city, discharged their
                            artillery into a high bank, reloaded, marched to the city, and awed the
                            home guards to silence with their magic firelocks.
                        Professor Cunningham became a more frequent caller at Mr.
                            Bruno's, taking the news of the war and the troubles of the
                            people. He entertained the old gentleman with public affairs; he
                            entertained Molly with heartfelt love. In their evening strolls Molly
                            and the Professor visited the little village, where they saw the men in
                            crowds standing on the platforms and corners of the streets discussing
                            the dreadful times. The Professor accented his
                            "p's" and "q's"
                            with perfect stress, he being a good linguist. As they walked home,
                            Molly held the Professor's arm, and their heads slightly
                            inclined toward each other. Sweet were the words of  the Professor--words which savored of the golden strains of
                            love. His stately form was a model of grace. On reaching the gate, he
                            bowed as courteous as a knight to Molly, bidding her good night, and
                            then returned to his home.
                        While Mr. Reynolds was in Indianapolis, his friends sent him plenty to
                            eat and drink, and the ladies sent him Bibles and other literature,
                            affording him plenty of entertainment and comfort. Governor Morton sent
                            for him, and he took dinner with the Governor. The Governor offered him
                            the command of a regiment in the army if he would take it, but he
                            declined the honor. The provost marshal, Garland Rose, gave Reynolds a
                            great deal of liberty, taking him about town, introducing him to the
                            public men, and giving him brandy toddies and cocktails. He met
                            Exgovernor Willard, and spent a social time with him. The provost
                            marshal, after taking several brandy toddies, became intoxicated. He
                            gave Reynolds the key to the prison and asked him to take him (the
                            provost marshal) home, which Reynolds did. thereby becoming both provost
                            marshal and prisoner. He went to the prison, and the guard refused to
                            let him in. Reynolds, being a good talker, asked the guard to let him
                            try the key in the door. Finally the guard let him try, thinking that he
                            was fooling him. Reynolds, as shrewd as an expert, put the key in the
                            lock, swung the great door in a jiffy and leaped in, closing the door
                            after him. The door was so heavy that one man could hardly open  it, but Reynolds was muscular. The guard
                            was completely humiliated by the cunning of Reynolds. While incarcerated
                            here, Reynolds was drafted. The officer that drew the names held
                            Reynolds' name in the palm of his hand and drew it first.
                            Reynolds saw a colonel, and gave him a fifty-dollar bill, telling him to
                            report him (Reynolds) all right, and his troubles were over.
                        The enrolling officer demanded forty-seven men from Jackson Township,
                            which was twice as many men as were asked of any other township; and
                            these people served notice on George Lay not to meddle any more with
                            them, which he resented.
                        McBailey, after being run away from Jackville, went to Hillsboro and
                            formed a company. One day, while drilling his men north of town, some of
                            them took a fife and a snare drum and went away out in the bushes and
                            began to play, when McBailey shouted: "Attention, boys!
                            Attention! The enemy is now upon us; and if you have to retreat, retreat
                            honorably; for I am going now."
                        Rev. Jonathan Vancleave had preached against the war, and the rumor got
                            out that the soldiers were going to kill him. The
                            "Acorn" men commenced to get their things together for
                            the next Lord's day. Rev. Vancleave went to Waynetown, as
                            usual, and began preaching. The "Acorn " men arrived
                            from Jackville, with their guns in a wagon covered with hay. They left a
                            guard in the wagon and proceeded to the 
                            church with their trusty six-shooters. After they were seated , the home
                            guards came in, marched up one aisle, around in front of the minister,
                            and out at the other aisle. "Click, click, click!"
                            went a hundred revolvers, as the hammers were set for action. The look
                            of the crowd told the soldiers that death was hovering close to them; so
                            they went away. They had heard the music of the death dealers, and they
                            chose resorts more pleasing. After the crisis was over, the captain
                            showed Rev. Vancleave their guns and told him their intentions if the
                            soldiers had tried to injure him. For many a Sunday after this the
                            plucky preacher took his gun to church with him to defend himself while
                            serving the Lord.
                        It was about this time that Squire Bell, of Montgomery County, went down
                            into Fountain County and united in marriage Eal Blackford and a young
                            lady of that county. In a few days the lordly Squire learned that his
                            commission did not extend beyond the bounds of his own county; so he
                            hastened down to see the parties and requested them to be reunited, as
                            they were not legally married. On being sent for, Squire Hybarger came
                            and solemnized the rite with the lordly air of a judge.
                        Many a peculiar incident took place during those times. One nervy
                            Republican, who was muscular and brave, carried missiles with which to
                            whip Democrats; and on starting to town one day, his elder son ran to
                                 the door and cried: "Pap,
                            you've forgot your steelyard pea!
                        Men began to be on the lookout for officers, and the young girls and
                            their lovers were often estranged by the fears incident to war. They
                            agreed to have a picnic at Shady Nook, which was a kind of trysting
                            place for lovers. The well-filled baskets of the pretty lassies were
                            sure to satisfy the strong appetites of their lovers. When the day of
                            the picnic arrived, Professor Cunningham escorted Molly Bruno to the
                            shady dells. Julius Harlow, Samuel Bruner, Robley Huts, Ada Morgan,
                            Elsie McClain, Abby Hybarger, and the other old chums of former days
                            were there. Blue Blossom, with his jollity, joined the crowd. It seemed
                            to be a reunion of lover and lass, who gave utterance to their
                            all-absorbing sentiment, while the older people talked of the war. Molly
                            Bruno longed for a conversation with Blue Blossom; but the cunning
                            Professor would give her no opportunity, for he feared the charming
                            words of the heroic knight. However, Blue Blossom joined Ada Morgan, the
                            pretty damsel, whose soul was full of childish glee. Through her he
                            thought to master the situation. After the repast, Ada Morgan asked
                            Molly Bruno to take a walk to a shady cove, where Blue Blossom was in
                            waiting for them. They walked away happily, hand in hand. In this calm
                            and sweet retreat love unfolded its mystic ways and renewed its fervor;
                            true hearts blended their inward  fullness.
                            It was like the old, familiar song: "Blest be the Tie that
                            Binds." The murmuring of the brook, the soothing balm of the
                            air, the whispering sounds of the dells, and the echoing of
                            lovers' voices made the place as sweet as a fairy's
                            dream. Ada Morgan swore fealty unto them; and then they returned to the
                            Professor, who was none the wiser for the occasion. Julius Harlow, by a
                            freak of nature, was exempt from the draft; and he could serve as a
                            messenger without fear of danger. This joyful meeting, where lover and
                            lass could reveal their loving thoughts from the fullness of their
                            hearts, was good for the soul.
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER VIII.
                        The tide of feeling now ran high; the breakers dashed and tossed with
                            fury; the dense clouds thickened; and Jove's forked lightning
                            flashed, each vivid flash revealing in the elements the approach of an
                            angry storm. The powers came together with terrific force, to be poured
                            forth with wonderful vengeance upon the foe. The leaders of the
                            "Acorn" met and determined to chastise George Lay.
                            They put the matter before the oracle, who advised them not to do so,
                            giving good reason for his advice. But reason gave place to spleen, and
                            the inevitable came to pass. David R-----, James H-----, Watson Black,
                            Edward Sipes, and many others, after loitering at the fountain of
                            "booze," could have met a Napoleon or a Wellington on
                            the highroad to battle. 'Strapping on their trusty six-shooters
                            and shouldering their fowling pieces, they mounted their cavalry steeds,
                            and away they went to the scene of conflict, intent on having
                            satisfaction for the past. A faint "Halloo!" as from
                            the voice of a neighbor, failed to bring the wily George Lay from his
                            castle. Then a council of war was held, and they determined to break in
                            the door, which had been made as secure  as
                            the palisaded castle of a valiant knight. They stormed the door and made
                            a. slight opening, through which the weapons of war belched forth their
                            fiery thunder. A struggle ensued, and a shot took effect in George
                            Lay's hip; but, like a hero at his post, he fought on with a
                            corn knife, severing the flesh to the bone on Marion A------'s
                            cheek. Mrs. Lay fought like an Amazon by the side of her husband. Then
                            she ran upstairs and blew an old dinner horn, making a terrible noise;
                            and the daring rangers shot all the window lights out of the window at
                            which she was standing while sounding the note of danger to the
                            neighbors. This seemed to suffice, and a cessation of hostilities was
                            declared. As they were mounting their horses to retire, a shot rang out,
                            and Watson Black fell dead from his horse. This was the most critical
                            point of all. It paved the highroad to discovery. Black, who previously,
                            while under the influence of liquor, had knocked the globes in William
                            Allen's church from their bearings with his fist, was carrying
                            his hand in a sling. He had set his gun against the fence; and in trying
                            to raise it up by the muzzle, it was discharged, nearly severing his
                            head from his body. They picked him up, in true Indian style threw him
                            across his horse, and took him to Montgomery's Cave, where
                            their high spirits, as day stole upon them, were turned into sorrow.
                            What to do with the body was their trouble. Finally they deposited it in
                            the cave, whose entrance was to Sugar Creek  as an amphitheater. In this quiet, secluded place two of the brave
                            men guarded the remains for three days, until the excitement died away
                            and they could get a safe opportunity for burial. They were 
                                MONTGOMERY'S CAVE, WHERE WATSON BLACK'S BODY
                                    WAS HID.
                             determined to guard the highway to their secret. Two of the
                            knight-errants of yore, being in love, on passing their fair
                            ones' residence (Jacob B. Lowe's), stopped to see
                            them. They went in; and as "an open confession is good for the
                            soul," they revealed their troubles  to the pretty damsels. Their parents, being Unionists, it was like
                            sowing to the whirlwind. Soon the home guards overran the country,
                            hunting for the body of Black, a deserter, who, rumor said, had been
                            killed; and they also sought the perpetrators of the deed. This made it
                            hard to get a chance to bury the remains of the dead chieftain. But,
                            like the burial of Sir John Moore, night's sable curtain must
                            be the means to hide their unfortunate work. On the third night after
                            the spirit took its flight they repaired to Wolf Creek Cemetery. There,
                            secretly and silently, they cut the green sward perfectly straight and
                            removed it with care; there they dug the grave of their hero, while the
                            home guards were in search of them. It meant death to any man who would
                            disturb them. They threw the loose earth on horse blankets, so as to
                            leave no trace of their work when the grave was finished. There, in the
                            gloom of night, they laid him to rest, sticking his bayonet into the
                            ground at the head of the grave as his funeral rite.
                        
                            "Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,
                            As his corse to the ramparts we hurried;
                            Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot
                            O'er the grave where our hero we buried.
                        
                        
                            "We buried him darkly, at dead of night,
                            The sods with our bayonets turning,
                            By the struggling moonbeam's misty light
                            And the lantern dimly burning.
                        
                        
                        
                            "No useless coffin inclosed his breast,
                            Not in sheet or in shroud we wound him;
                            But he lay, like a warrior taking his rest,
                            With his martial cloak around him.
                        
                        
                            "Few and short were the prayers we said,
                            And we spoke not a word of sorrow;
                            But we steadfastly gazed on the face of the dead,
                            And we bitterly thought of the morrow.
                        
                        
                            "Slowly, and sadly we laid him down,
                            From the field of his fame fresh and gory.
                            We carved not a line, and we raised not a stone;
                            But we left him alone in his glory."
                        
                        
                            O God, it is an awful sight
                            To see the human soul take flight!
                            I've seen it pierced with winged spear,
                            The soul went hurtling through the scar;
                            I've seen it pass from lowly bed,
                            And leave the mortal cold and dead;
                            I've seen it linger on the sward,
                            And pass out gently to its God.
                        
                        They filled the grave, tramped down, the earth, and put the sod back like
                            it was before, leaving the grave without a mound; they then carried the
                            remaining dirt and threw it into the creek, so as to leave no trace of
                            their mysterious work.
                        The home guard came from Rockville, looking for deserters; and while
                            riding across a ravine, Edward Sipes, a deserter from the Union Army,
                            shot and killed 
                            
                                THE TOMB OF WATSON BLACK.
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Inscription:
                                        
                                        
                                            " His toils are past, his work is done,
                                            And he is fully blest;
                                            He fought the fight, the victory won;
                                            He enters into rest."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                             a horse under one of them; and they went
                            pellmell back toward Rockville.
                        Captain Bud, hearing of the battle at George Lay's, came over
                            with his regulators to demand peace and hunt up the perpetrators of the
                            deed. Marion A----- had shot Lay, and himself had received a cheek
                            wound. He was suspected; and Captain Bud tried all means to get him to
                            divulge the secret, offering him clemency for the offense; but he would
                            not tell anything. He was a true knight. Captain Bud then ordered his
                            men to weigh Marion A----- by the Indian method. The men got a rope, put
                            it around his neck, and swung him up to a little water-beech tree, which
                            leaned over, making a graceful curve, as though rendering its obeisance
                            in prayer. They let him down occasionally to see if the time was ripe
                            for a confession, but he gave them no information. They hanged him until
                            he was virtually dead, but he would reveal nothing; so they let him go,
                            limp and lifeless, as they thought. Almost immediately that part of the
                            tree above where the soldiers put the rope died, leaving the part below
                            alive. It remained in this condition for many years, being known as
                            "the tree of mystery." It aroused the superstition of
                            the people, who supposed that the Lord had cursed the tree on account of
                            Captain Bud's rash act.
                        Captain Bud then went to Henry Roach's. There his men committed
                            some depredations, and he sent some of them on to Jackville. They had
                            not been gone long  before they heard the
                            firing of guns, when the Captain commanded: "On, boys! On to
                            Jackville! They are firing on the soldiers!" The men loped
                            their horses to the top of the hill, only to see their comrades
                            dispatching a flock of geese.
                        The draft Act was now in effect, and the wrath of some was great. Blue
                            Blossom was drafted, and he was sad at heart, because he would be taken
                            away from his fiancee. He had not seen her for a long time; and while he
                            was getting ready to go to the war (for he was not able to hire a
                            substitute), he contemplated visiting her.
                        Sunday morning was bright and lovely. The sun rose like a great disk of
                            gold, and every living creature seemed eager to drink its mellow
                            sweetness. Molly Bruno had heard of Mr. Oliver's being drafted,
                            and she was sad and lonely. She did not feel the light of the glorious
                            morning; she was living in the thoughts of the future. She arose early,
                            thinking that probably she would never see Mr. Oliver again. Her heart
                            was full of melancholy and sadness. She could not be content; so she put
                            on her bonnet and strolled across the fields toward Wolf Creek. In a few
                            moments Blue Blossom came along and inquired of Mrs. Bruno concerning
                            Molly. Mrs. Bruno told him that Molly had just gone toward the falls of
                            Wolf Creek. Blue Blossom mounted his horse, fearing that something was
                            wrong, and hastened to Wolf Creek,  where
                            he found Molly sitting on a log and looking into the falls, crying. She
                            did not see him approaching. He clasped her in his arms and kissed her,
                            inquiring what was the matter.
                        "Mr. Oliver," said Molly, "I feared that I
                            would never see you again, and I could never be happy."
                        "Fear not, Molly," said Blue Blossom. "If God
                            permits, I'll keep my vow. I am drafted, but I trust in God to
                            save me. I must go to-morrow, and I wanted to spend a day with you.
                            Cheer up, darling! Think no harm, and hope for the best."
                        "Mr. Oliver," said Molly, "my trust is all in
                            you; and when you vanish from me, the day is dark and
                            gloomy."
                        "Molly," said Blue Blossom, gently, "let us go
                            away from this dismal place to your father's
                            house."
                        Arm in arm, the two strolled along, Blue Blossom leading his Arabian
                            horse. The horse seemed to know their loving thoughts.
                        On reaching Molly's home, Blue Blossom hitched his horse to the
                            fence, where it had often stood before; and they seated themselves in
                            the nursery swing beneath the great elm, whose leafy boughs spread their
                            shade for yards around. Ada Morgan came over to bid Blue Blossom
                            good-by, and she seated herself by them.
                        Like cooing doves, Blue Blossom and Molly spent the day. It seemed that
                            they could never part, but the government's orders must be
                            obeyed. As the twilight  hour approached,
                            a strange feeling came. over them. He asked her to be faithful and write
                            to him, that he might be brave and serve his country. He slipped a
                            golden memento on her finger, and she sobbed bitterly. She took from her
                            bosom a golden heart and pinned it on the lapel of his vest near his
                            heart, asking him to remember the one whose hand had pinned it there. As
                            he took his departure, she leaned upon his shoulder, and, with their
                            hands clasped, he kissed her good-by. After his departure, she was
                            sorrowful; but she put her trust in God, the Master of fate, that Blue
                            Blossom might return to her.
                        Things seemed to be getting worse, and the government sent a company of
                            soldiers to Jackville. As they came from Crawfordsville, they camped in
                            Fountain County, on Elijah Clare's farm, where they shot their
                            guns and stabbed the trees with their bayonets, frightening the natives
                            with their deviltry; and they sent spies into the weird old village. The
                            Jackvillians, hearing of them, decamped to the brakes and hills adjacent
                            to the town. The soldiers went on to Jackville the next day, camping in
                            Lewis Grims' pasture. They shot into the trees and banks with
                            their big guns, whose sound went roaring and echoing and reverberating
                            through the forest, causing a slight fear to come over many an heroic
                            man. They were now in a land of spirits, and perhaps they loved to be
                            under the strange spell of flickering images.
                        
                        The "Acorn" men met and determined on attacking the
                            soldiers. It seemed as though the district of Jackville would secede
                            from the Union. The "Acorn" men sent out messengers to
                            all the country round, crying: "O, Coon! O, Coon!"
                            Many a gray-haired sire shook his head as he was notified of the
                            approaching crisis. However, they got seven hundred of the rangers
                            together at Lusk's Deadening, and called on Harris Reynolds to
                            address them and assume command. Reynolds sent word to John K. Davis, of
                            Rockville, to come up and address them. As the people came, the echo of
                            "Halt!" "Bang!" resounded throughout
                            the neighborhood. "See that star, see that star!" was
                            heard through the gloom of night, until it really appeared that the
                            heavens were one eternal galaxy. Seven hundred men were soon in camp,
                            with a good reserve. They had two barrels of whisky to steady their
                            nerves, and an old wagon served as a speaker's stand.
                        About that time the "Acorn" met near Alamo, in
                            Bunker's cooper shop, and Taylor Sering stood as sentinel. A
                            man named "Absalom Gilkins," seeking to find out
                            something about the order, came too near, and Sering cried:
                            "Halt! Who goes there?" Gilkins started to run, and
                            Sering fired, shooting Gilkins through the hand. Gilkins carried his
                            hand in a sling--"nursing a boil," as tradition would
                            have it.
                        Everybody cried for Reynolds, and he mounted the wagon and began to
                            speak. He advised the men not  to fight.
                            He said that he knew they could easily whip the soldiers, but that the
                            government would send more soldiers, and then they would have to hide in
                            the hollows and wherever they could. They were very much disappointed in
                            his speech, as they were eager for a fiht. It is said that Reynolds
                            began his speech thus: "We can whip them, boys; we can kill
                            every one of them; we can literally exterminate all of them."
                            At this point he looked up the road and saw a great cloud of dust rising
                            high in the air, and he cried out: "Run, boys ! By h----l, they
                            are coming!"
                        John K. Davis came, and in a one-hour's speech he warned them
                            not to fight the soldiers. He spoke from the rickety old wagon, which
                            has gone down in history as the savior of one hundred Union men.
                        Reynolds marched with the men to Russell's Mill, where all
                            disbanded, except eighty men, who were eager for a fight. They camped at
                            Summers' for the night.
                        Reynolds stayed all night at Russell's Mill; and on going home
                            the next morning, he went by the way of Summers', where the
                            eighty men were camped. They received him rather coolly. He was the
                            Napoleon of the vine-clad hills. He bade them good morning in his usual
                            courteous way. A long tree lay upon the ground, having been uprooted by
                            a storm, and Reynolds said: "Boys, I want you to be in good
                            humor; I want you all to sit down on this log and take sacrament from
                                 this bottle [pulling a bottle of
                            brandy from his pocket], and then all go home." They sat down
                            upon the log. Reynolds passed the bottle along, and all of them touched
                            it to their lips, after which they went home, thus averting a terrible
                            battle.
                        Reynolds was a seer of eld. His moving power was great, and well he knew
                            it; and that was his reason for declining to lead the
                            "Acorn" men in a massacre of the Union soldiers.
                        Blue Blossom was now at the front. He had fought in the battle of Shiloh,
                            where twenty-five thousand Union men had lost their lives; but he had
                            come out without a scratch, though many of his comrades were slain.
                        Professor Cunningham was on "flowery beds of ease." He
                            cared not whether "school kept or not," just so he was
                            with Molly Bruno. He was a frequent caller at the Bruno home. Molly
                            received him courteously; and she listened attentively to his recital of
                            the recent battles, of the casualties, and of the sick and wounded,
                            hoping that if Mr. Oliver was unfortunate she would hear of it. About
                            this time the Professor was able to get one of those Eastern vehicles
                            known as a "buggy," with which he was enabled to
                            escort Molly in stately style and whisper love in her ear. He never
                            forgot to press the matter of connubial felicity; and he sought to
                            fascinate her with his bountiful riches, his abundance with which to
                            keep her. This was all very  well; but
                            Molly had once seen a sweeter flower in its ruddy nature, whose presence
                            she loved.
                        The mail had just arrived, and the battle of Shiloh was all the talk.
                            Molly received a letter, postmarked "Shiloh, Tenn.,"
                            and away she went to her room to learn its contents in secret. The
                            letter was as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "Miss Molly Bruno.
                                    
                                    "BELOVED FRIEND: I am in camp. I have just been in a
                                        terrible battle; thousands were slain, but I escaped without
                                        any injury. Do not forget me, as I always think of you and
                                        the happy day we spent in Wolf Creek Valley, where, before
                                        Heaven, I made a vow to you. Darling, I think of you always.
                                        Write soon.
                                    "Your loving friend,
                                    JOHNNIE OLIVER."
                                
                            
                        
                        After this letter was received, Molly still had hope; and the Professor
                            had no great advantage over Blue Blossom, though he was far away. It was
                            like receiving a message at the hands of an angel, the sound of whose
                            vibrating pinions is sweet and soothing to the hearts of lovers.
                        A rumor was now going the rounds that soon the men would be arrested for
                            the rude chastising of George Lay. Many were fearful of the event; so
                            they went to consult Reynolds, the oracle, in regard to the matter. He
                            told them that there could be nothing done, except to effect a
                            compromise. A consultation was held, and they agreed to try that plan.
                            Reynolds was selected as the man to make the effort to compromise the
                                 matter; and he, with David Roach,
                            went to see George Lay. They found him in bed on account of his wounds,
                            but he was brave and angry. They talked pleasantly for a while; but when
                            the trouble was broached, he became terribly enraged. Reynolds proposed
                            a compromise, whereupon Lay drove them out of the house. Reynolds was a
                            good talker, however; and he stood at the door and talked to Mrs. Lay,
                            using his magic powers with wonderful effect.
                        It began to rain while Reynolds and Mrs. Lay were talking at the door,
                            and she said: "Pa, Mr. Reynolds seems to be a good man. Let us
                            invite him in, out of the rain."
                        The long-sought opportunity had come. It appeared that the Lord was
                            intervening in their behalf by sending a pleasant shower to bring about
                            harmony and wash away their sins.
                        When in the house again, they conversed more freely; and Reynolds again
                            proposed to compromise the trouble, offering Lay seven hundred dollars
                            to release the men. This offer did not have the desired effect; so
                            Reynolds offered to throw in his trotting horse, Boxer. This
                            "knocked the persimmon." Lay's lawyer--Tom
                            Rice, of Rockville--was sent for, and everything was adjusted. The seven
                            hundred dollars and the horse, with an additional amount sufficient to
                            make two thousand dollars in all, were turned over, which the lawyer
                            eagerly received; and the troublesome fight was at an end.  Once more the oracle restored to the men
                            their gasping breath, which they had been "holding"
                            for so long a time.
                        Politics still ran high. The "Acorn" men had a meeting
                            at J. Risley's, in Terre Haute. There Reynolds met Judge
                            Secrets, of Green Castle, and many other prominent men from over the
                            State. The campaign of 1863 was coming on, and the Democrats met at
                            Indianapolis to nominate candidates and to consult for their best
                            interests. They nominated Joseph E. McDonald for Governor, and much
                            spleen and vindictive language was used in regard to the Republican
                            policy. Daniel Voorhees, with all his power, used his influence to allay
                            the restless people. Many of the leading "Acorn" men
                            of the State were there in close consultation. The plan of one Mr. Dodds
                            and a man from French Lick was to break into the armory and relieve the
                            prisoners of war. Rumor said that six Rebel generals were in hiding in
                            the city, but there was no verification of such a statement. Joseph
                            McDonald was apprised of these mysterious doings among some egotistic
                            fellows. He did not desire the beautiful city, in which he took so much
                            pride, to be torn up; so he informed Governor Morton, who had cannon
                            planted on the streets, some of them pointing toward the Capitol, so as
                            to awe the people to peace. A great many men from over the State, some
                            of them from Jackville, were arrested. This destroyed a great deal of
                            the force of the 
                            "Acorn." Its last meeting was held in Chicago, which
                            one of our noted characters attended. Some suspicion rested on McDonald
                            regarding the Democratic plans. He received a light vote, giving an
                            immense majority to Morton, thus strengthening his policy.
                        Molly Bruno answered Blue Blossom's letter as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "My Dear Mr. Oliver:
                                        
                                        You cannot imagine how happy I was to hear from you and
                                            to know that you were well. May God spare you to come
                                            home with glory and honor. My life I trust with you.
                                            Though the earth cease revolving, my thoughts will live
                                            in you. Answer soon.
                                        
                                            Your loving friend,
                                            MOLLY BRUNO."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        About that time one Philip Julien, a Republican and a resident of
                            Montgomery County, went down to Wolf Creek to be initiated into the
                            "Acorn." He was given the first degree. He was sworn
                            to support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of
                            the State of Indiana, after which he was retired for further orders. A
                            Mr. Clark, from Alamo then appeared upon the scene; and the further
                            initiation was never given, and a cunning spy was defeated.
                        About that time some men near Alamo that belonged to the
                            "Acorn" were arrested by a United States officer and
                            taken to Crawfordsville. Mr. George Clark, the chief ruler, followed
                            them. He did not desire to see the men too badly treated; so he warned
                            the officers not to  put the men in jail,
                            or there would be trouble. The officers repeatedly threatened to put the
                            men in jail, but finally desisted. When Clark's mission was
                            fulfilled, he mounted his horse, which was in readiness, and in an hour
                            rode to Alamo, a distance of twelve miles, to let the seventy
                            "Acorn" men of Ripley Township and the eighty
                            "Acorn" men of Jackson Township, who had assembled in
                            readiness, know how things were. The men were at Clark's Mill.
                            They proposed to relieve the men if they were incarcerated. Things went
                            to suit them, and they contented themselves by annoying Dr. Brown, of
                            Alamo, who was a chief in the "Underground Railroad."
                            They then went home in peace.
                        About the same time Daniel Voorhees was offered five hundred dollars to
                            make a speech below Mattoon, in Illinois; but he would not go unless
                            Harris Reynolds would go with him. Reynolds, being a brave man,
                            consented to go; so they got ready and started. When they got to
                            Mattoon, where they had to change cars, they had to wait three hours for
                            a train. They went to the hotel; and in fifteen minutes three hundred
                            home guards visited them and gave them thirty minutes in which to leave
                            town. This was a sad case.
                        "What shall we do?" asked Voorhees.
                        "We cannot leave town," replied Reynolds; "so
                            we will just oil up our guns and sell ourselves as dearly as
                            possible."
                        So they burnished their guns and peacefully awaited  their fate. When the time was up, the soldiers came and
                            hooted and jeered, but did not come in.
                        When train time came, Voorhees again asked Reynolds what they would do,
                            for it seemed dangerous to face such a howling foe.
                        "Get your grip and your gun ready," said Reynolds.
                            "You walk before, and I'll walk behind; and
                            I'll shoot the first man that lays hands on you."
                        They then started for the station through the howling crowd. None of the
                            men attempted to touch them; for if they had, some of them would have
                            "bit the dust." So they boarded the train and went on.
                            When they arrived at the place, ten thousand people were assembled to
                            hear the great orator of the Wabash. Everything terminated well, but
                            such occasions might serve to raise and whiten the hair in a single
                            moment.
                        The draft was now over, and forty-seven men of Jackville were gone. Some
                            absconded, but most of them took a front seat on "Uncle
                            Abe's band wagon," though the tide of the music was
                            low. The soldiers were still at Jackville, using plenty of the
                            "oil of joy." When they met a burgher that did not see
                            things as they did, a few of them ran riot in the town. With this
                            exception, they were good-natured.
                        Many moons passed, and the jolly regulators grew more in favor with the
                            people, as they imbibed the harmony of spirit and made merry with the
                            boys in their youthful days. There were fewer depredations, and the  sweet lassies smiled upon the
                            "boys in blue," diverting their thoughts from the
                            pangs of war to the sweet fields of pleasure. Thus love conquered where
                            it seemed that angels would not dare to tread.
                        One Mr. Parsons, who had volunteered early in the war, had come home on a
                            furlough. After spending many happy days in the village, he was ready to
                            return to the war. He was a good friend to Harris Reynolds, and asked
                            Reynolds to take him to Crawfordsville on his return to the army. On
                            their way to town Parsons stopped at Hiram Powell's, who was a
                            stanch Union man, to get something to eat, leaving Reynolds in the
                            wagon. He got two pies and two chickens. Then Powell asked him who was
                            with him. He would not tell, and Powell started to the wagon with him.
                            Reynolds, perceiving Powell's object, left the team standing in
                            the road, threw a horse blanket over his head, and walked up the
                            highway. Parsons drove after him with his luxuries, leaving Powell no
                            wiser for his trouble.
                        Other difficulties began to make themselves manifest. The increasing-war
                            debt caused an increase in the revenue on whisky, which bore heavily on
                            the people of Jackville, who had paid but little revenue up to this
                            time. It was about to break up the small distilleries, and many of the
                            people devised plans by which they might evade the law. A great deal of
                            traffic was carried on at night, which was known in a legal way as
                            "moonshining."
                        
                        Professor Cunningham, on a certain Sunday morning, went in his new buggy
                            to take Molly Bruno to Wolf Creek to church. He drove up, alighted,
                            hitched his horse, and went in. Molly met him on the piazza. He bowed
                            courteously to her and invited her to accompany him to church. She
                            accepted his invitation, and they were soon on the road. A crack of the
                            whip on old Fleetfoot sent them jogging along at a pleasant gait. The
                            Professor was fluent in the use of "big" words, and he
                            spared no pains to use them. Molly was a good listener, and the
                            Professor had things pretty much his own way. Presently they reached the
                            church, where William Allen was in the midst of one of his big sermons.
                            They soon went in and listened to, the trials and troubles of the
                            apostles as narrated by the eloquent minister; but the Professor thought
                            that it was all as nothing compared with the trials of his courtship.
                            When the sermon was over, the kind-hearted old pastor went around and
                            shook hands with them, invoking upon them the blessings of the Lord as
                            he gave them his felicitous clasp of the hand.
                        The Professor and Molly were soon seated in the buggy and going toward
                            home. Molly was looking as beautiful as a lily. The Professor caused old
                            Fleetfoot to slacken his speed to a walk, prolonging the drive so as to
                            enable Cupid to play his part; the Professor wanted to be inspired with
                            the magic that would unfold the secret of Molly's heart. As the
                            trusty Fleetfoot  brought them nearer and
                            nearer to Molly's home, the Professor pleaded passionately with
                            her; but he failed to solve the mystery, for Molly was alert and sly.
                            The Professor's heart was bursting with love, but there was no
                            relief. Arriving at the house, he alighted, assisted Molly to alight,
                            bade her good-by, and he was gone. He could not tarry longer; for his
                            heart was full, sad, and heavy. But he still had hope of winning
                            her.
                        
                            Bright shines the way of love in its hope
                            To the heart that never can falter;
                            It turns as a theme measured in trope,
                            And leads the poor muse as a halter.
                        
                        Blue Blossom was now in Sherman's Army, marching to the sea,,
                            fighting day after day; and his letters to Molly Bruno came farther and
                            farther apart as time went on, and his once ardent love seemed to sleep
                            under the great strain of war. Time seemed to cool that which was once
                            ardent and amorous. However, when he reached Atlanta, Ga., he wrote the
                            following letter: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "Miss Molly Bruno.
                                        
                                        "DEAR FRIEND: I received your ever-welcome letter a
                                            few days ago. You cannot imagine the pleasure it gave me
                                            to hear from one at home so dear to me. It was like the
                                            voice of an angel in this lonely place of death-dealing
                                            woe. I often think of you. Please tell me all about the
                                            Professor, Miss Morgan, and all of our friends. Do not
                                            forget one that loves you as himself. Good-by, darling;
                                            good-by!
                                        
                                            "Your affectionate friend,
                                            JOHNNIE OLIVER."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                        Blue Blossom had been informed, by Ada Morgan, as to the
                            Professor's new buggy, and he wanted to see if Molly Bruno
                            would speak of it.
                        Joseph Bryant, a government detective, under the guise of a doctor, had
                            located at Jackville to ferret out the illicit stills. He was a jolly
                            good fellow, and took part in everything, trying to be a leader. He came
                            with the air of a "city swell," puffing his Havana
                            cigars, tipping his hat to the ladies, doing things
                            "brown." He made the acquaintance of Professor
                            Cunningham; he also became acquainted with Ada Morgan, Elsie McClain,
                            and Molly Bruno. Things ran as smooth with him as the sailing motes of a
                            sunbeam.
                        Professor Cunningham had been nominated on the Democratic ticket as a
                            candidate for Representative. He made many speeches in his gentle, airy
                            style; and he made many friends, shaking hands with the ladies, kissing
                            the babies, and endearing himself to the people. The election came off,
                            and the news soon came to Jackville that the Professor was elected, thus
                            giving him fresh laurels. This was welcome news to Mr. Bruno, who hoped
                            for the Professor a bright future. Now that the Professor had received
                            this additional honor, Mr. Bruno urged his daughter the more to accept
                            his hand in matrimony.
                        John Dobbins, who ran a cab occasionally from Jackville to
                            Crawfordsville, started to the latter city with Bryant, after procuring
                            some of "Shoaf's best." Along  the way they took on James Donner as a
                            passenger. They arrived at Crawfordsville early in the day, did some
                            business, and started for home. Along the way home the cab, being as
                            top-heavy as the passengers, toppled over in a ditch. The horses took
                            fright and ran for some distance, with the passengers in the cab. Donner
                            thrust his head through the dolor and cried: "Help,
                            help!" However, the driver stopped the horses and let the
                            passengers out. They righted the cab, and all got aboard and resumed
                            their journey.
                        When Donner got home, feeling very sick and fearing his good wife, who
                            had many times corrected her "lord and master," he
                            went to the barn and crawled under it. His good wife, fearing that
                            something was wrong, went to look after him, and found him
                            "roosting" under the barn.
                        "What is the matter, Mr. Donner?" asked his
                            mistress.
                        "O, nothing," said he, "only I have been
                            eating some lemon pie."
                        His statement might have been true; but she took him from his perch, only
                            to find that he had been in company with a government detective from
                            Jackville.
                        The State Legislature having convened, the stately Representative from
                            Jackville appeared at the Capitol, ready to wrestle with the momentous
                            questions of the day. His quick wit and fluent conversation made him a
                            master of that august assembly. Well could he re-  mark: "I am monarch of all I survey."
                            Many bills were introduced, and the Professor took part in the
                            discussion of all of them. He soon saw that the Speaker's clerk
                            was cramped for room, and he immediately introduced a bill to add two
                            feet to the west side of the Speaker's stand for the use of the
                            clerk. The bill went through like a whirlwind. Then came a bill for the
                            benefit of the public schools, and it was passed in a jiffy. It was now
                            seen that he was a past master among the logrollers of the State, as
                            though he had been reared among the happy woodmen. On one occasion, when
                            extolling the virtue of the farmers and growing Utopian in his imagery,
                            he held up his horny hands and remarked: "Why, I was reared
                            between two corn rows." Whereupon a "happy go
                            lucky" bawled out: "Pumpkin, by h---l!" But
                            the Professor was not to be embarrassed by the schemes and intrigue of
                            egotistic "bummers."
                        The Professor took a few days' leave from the Legislature and
                            visited his old home at Jackville. The people everywhere greeted him
                            cordially, praising him for his integrity and fidelity. He was like a
                            man who could wrap his martial cloak about him and lie down to pleasant
                            dreams. He harnessed up old Fleetfoot and drove over to Mr.
                            Bruno's to see the beautiful maiden. She met him with a sweet
                            smile, like a dew-sparkling rose on a bright summer's morning.
                            Her golden, glossy hair fell over her shoulder, absorbing the beautiful
                                 splendor of the sun, bringing out the
                            sweet damask hue of her cheeks, while her brown eyes sparkled with joy.
                            There, in that haven of rest, Mr. Bruno bade him welcome to the best
                            fruits of the farm and still. The sparkling fluid added fluency to his
                            tongue. Soon he asked Molly to take a drive, and she accepted the
                            invitation. They drove down through the little village, and the
                            villagers on all sides bowed to them. It was a happy day, and Molly saw
                            how the people honored him. They drove by Luthern, and the sight of the
                            little brook and the cemetery brought memories of the days of yore.
                            Molly could see Blue Blossom standing by the shady swing. Then she
                            became low-spirited. She was in a quandary as between her lover in the
                            war arid the Professor. The Professor talked of the future and of the
                            happiness of the saints. He told her that he could never be happy unless
                            she would become the queen of his home, and that she was the idol of his
                            heart. This brought the proposal clear from the shadow of hints. She
                            could not treat it lightly; so, looking solemnly into the realm of
                            space, she said: "Mr. Cunningham, there is one on whom my
                            affections shine like the sparkling rays of the golden sun; and while he
                            lives, I cannot love another. It would be the destruction of two hearts;
                            their broken parts could never be cemented."
                        This was a severe blow to the Professor, who was deeply in love; but it
                            revealed the inwardness of a true heart--one that pomp and pride could
                            not change.
                        
                        The Professor and Molly returned in the twilight with heavy hearts,
                            thinking seriously of. the future. Time, the wheel of fate, did not
                            reveal to them their true visions of glory.
                        It was now clear to the Professor that Blue Blossom was the possessor of
                            Molly's heart, and he was more than ever determined to win her.
                            The war and Blue Blossom's remoteness would furnish the
                            opportunity for the accomplishment of his purpose. He made a league with
                            Julius Harlow to accomplish it, and then he returned to the
                            Legislature.
                        About that time the citizens of Jackville met in the "spirit
                            emporiums" to discuss public affairs. One day Tobin Osgood came
                            around in the midst of a heated discussion with two powder horns. He had
                            one of them filled with powder, the other being empty. He sauntered
                            around for a while and pretended to be a little tottery. Presently he
                            remarked, "Well, I don't want this any
                            longer," and opened the stove door and threw one of the powder
                            horns into the stove. Squire Hybarger and all the others fell over each
                            other getting out at the door. One frightened lord asked:
                            "Squire, what shall we do with him?" "Turn
                            him over to the 'Calamus Eaters,'" was the
                            reply. Things soon quieted down when it was seen that the building still
                            remained intact.
                        Molly Bruno wrote the following letter to Blue Blossom: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            "My Dear Mr. Oliver:
                                        
                                        I received your kind letter, and I was delighted to hear
                                            from you. Things move along slowly. The
                                            'Acorn' is a thing of the past, and
                                            quiet is being restored. Occasionally a little trouble
                                            occurs. Professor Cunningham is in the Legislature, and
                                            he is fast gaining fame. I hope to meet you in the
                                            future. Be true and trust in me.
                                        
                                            "Doubt not of the heavens above you,
                                            Whence cometh true passions of love.
                                            With the heart of an angel I love you;
                                            Let God and the seraphs approve.
                                        
                                        
                                            "Your loving friend,
                                            MOLLY BRUNO."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        The Professor was in that august assembly at the Capitol, and his
                            suspicion was aroused by a bill for the promotion of toll gravel roads,
                            which allowed fifty freeholders to petition to tax the people to build a
                            gravel road, of which five men formed the company, while the people
                            "paid the fiddler." It was a scheme to build up the
                            towns and the cities at the expense of the country. The corporations
                            promoting this scheme employed two men to champion their cause. They
                            tried to make work and life as inviting and fascinating as a dime novel.
                            They were the well-paid attorneys of the gravel-road companies and their
                            friends, and it was to defeat them in their wily schemes against the
                            people that Professor Cunningham made this wonderful, flowery
                            speech:
                        "Mr. Speaker: In imitation of the gentleman from  Marion County, also the gentleman from
                            Brown County, I extend my vision much farther and unfurl my banner for
                            the United States, which includes our own glorious State; and under our
                            proposed free gravel roads we will be rocked in the bosom of two mighty
                            oceans, whose granite shores are whitened by the floating canvas of the
                            commercial world, reaching from the ice-fettered lakes of the north to
                            the febrile waves of austral seas and comprising the vast area of five
                            billion acres, whose alluvial plains, romantic mountains, and mystic
                            rivers rival the wildest Utopian dreams of the inspired bard as he
                            walked the amaranthine promenades of the hesperian gardens. Is proud
                            Columbia 'the land of the free?' Is she 'the
                            home of the brave?' The munificent heritage bequeathed the
                            valorous sons of our Revolutionary fathers is indented by innumerable
                            bays and gulfs, whose restless tide is ever kissed back by the pebbly
                            beach, and interspersed by limpid rivers and lakes, the means by which
                            commerce and civilization have been lifted to their present exalted
                            station. America has been--and, aided by free gravel roads, will ever
                            be--the most charming, alluring, and delightful retreat known to the
                            progressive and migratory world. We have noticed the natural position of
                            our fast-developing country, with its lofty mountains, fertile valleys,
                            majestic rivers, and billowy seas, in all their natural perfection and
                            enchanting beauty, as passed from the hand of the great Architect in the
                            morning of time. Here we have everything that is calculated to be
                            instrumental in the promotion and development of science, wealth,
                            morality, power, and universal prosperity--all for which man,
                            extravagant and consuming as he is, could hope or wish. But in
                            contemplating and 
                            
                                D. W. CUNNINGHAM
                                (The Demosthenes of Jackville, with his masterly philippics).
                            
                             considering these, we find other reasons
                            why we, as a people and a nation, are destined to become famous and
                            powerful. Situated between the twenty-fifth and fifty-fifth parallels of
                            north latitude, we find that the most powerful and enlightened nations
                            of the world have existed here from the beginning down to the present
                            time. Greece, the very cradle of primeval light, science, art, and great
                            men--Homer, Demosthenes, and a host of other learned spirits--is found
                            here; proud and martial Rome--the birthplace of royalty, gallantry, and
                            power--which sat upon seven hills and in composure and serenity issued
                            edicts to the world, is found here; modern France, England, Russia,
                            Italy, and Austria--the five great powers of the Western Orient--are
                            found here; within this magic and inspiring belt the benignant Ruler of
                            the universe for the home of man has also allotted to us our temporal
                            destiny; here, in our own native land, the gallant sons of
                            Genoa's craggy heights, with knees in suppliance bent, planted
                            deep the floating banner of the cross; it was here for the beginning of
                            our free government that the Pilgrim Fathers, kneeling on
                            Plymouth's sacred rock, overshadowed by the capacious temple of
                            the ethereal firmament, dedicated to God the wild woods, the mighty
                            rivers, the abounding and productive prairies, and the genial and
                            exhilarating skies of a transatlantic paradise; here, inspired by
                            patriotism, amid the fiery tide of blood and battles for eight long and
                            dreary years, cheered by the inspiring voice of their invincible hero
                            and the love of liberty and independence, the sons of Columbia trod the
                            gory plains of war.
                        "When we remember and rehearse the glories of the past, what
                            cheering auspices span our political concave  with the rosy-fingered aurora of national progress and
                            prosperity! From those indomitable spirits who, unconscious of freedom,
                            boldly roamed the bleak wilds of ancient Scythia and Hyperbora and in
                            torrents of blood, fire, and terror precipitated from the broad retreats
                            of Alpine summits into and over the classic plains of Italy, deluging
                            and inundating all Europe with a spirit of social metamorphism, we,
                            liberty-loving Americans, have our liineage--independence--which is
                            everything. Give us free gravel roads forever, but paying
                            tollgates--never! Thus the Teutons and the Cembics, the spoliators of
                            ancient civilization, whose potent hands had extinguished the lights of
                            science and covered the world with a mantle of mourning, have, strange
                            as it may seem, become the abettors of enterprise, learning, and
                            genius.
                        "As the lurid glare of Jourels and Popocatepetl sends their
                            blazing fires far and wide over the stormy deep to light the wandering
                            mariner to his distant haven, so the colossal edifices of our benignant
                            institutions have already made the country of Washington the brilliant
                            cynosure of waking papalism and floundering superstition. Under our
                            munificent institutions we have grown from a weak, small, and despised
                            nation to one of power, dignity, and wealth, standing at the head of
                            civilized government for learning, enterprise, benevolence, skill, and
                            ingenuity; and we will, by means of posts, wire, and iron-bound
                            thoroughfares, aided by free gravel roads, subdue and begirt the
                            world.
                        "Talk of 'retrogression!' Why, under all
                            disadvantages and trying circumstances, being opposed by an abundance of
                            money, skill, power, and the best-drilled armies of the most powerful
                            nations on earth, the  yeomanry of the
                            country fought and won the great battles of freedom. They at once became
                            the exponents of our independence, the defenders of our liberty, and the
                            advocates and devotees of justice, which bedecks our Union with bright
                            scintillations of unfading glory. Yes, the glorious inheritance gained
                            by eight years of hard and faithful toil, privation, and bloody war; our
                            position in, as well as our relation to, the world; our irrepressible
                            industry, knowledge, and prowess, with the physical structure and
                            natural resources of our country, disdainfully forbid the idea of
                            retrogression in the management of free roads by the people. The
                            blighted hopes of dear ones gone to
                        
                            "That undiscovered country,
                            From whose bourne no traveler returns,"
                        
                        seem to be casting their shadows over our tollgates as they mark the
                            rugged pathway of human life, warning us, with the voice of a wise
                            father, of man's stupendous follies and prodigalities. Discord
                            and prejudice may be playing their fatal parts. Though our political
                            horizon may be dark and obscure for a season and temporary want and
                            adversity may seem to hover over our fair and beloved country, where is
                            wont to be heard the busy hum of energetic enterprise and honest
                            industry; though through unfair laws the iron heel of oppression seems
                            to rule where liberty and justice, unfettered and unimpaired, should
                            reign, yet by an honest application of, and a strict adherence to, those
                            principles and precepts of the fathers of our country, we will, like the
                            radiant sun in the east, shine forth in resplendent beauty, lighting up
                            the dark and gloomy pathway of life, and 
                            restore the government to its ancient simplicity and purity.
                        "I adjure the tollgate owners to heed the lesson of
                            neas, who, when he was on his long and dreary voyage from the
                            beloved Troy, sinking beneath the devouring elements of Grecian fire,
                            having escaped from the fatal wreck of the Mediterranean Sea, and
                            wandering amid the primeval solitudes of Lydia's desert shore,
                            chanced to meet his goddess mother, who condescended to lift the veil
                            and unfold to him in flaming vaticinations the thrilling annals of
                            mighty Rome. Hear the crowning glory of this memorable message:
                            'Hiy ego nec metas rerum nec temporapone emperium sine fine
                            didi.'* Methinks a greater than neas indulged in
                            similar assurances when the distinguished 'father of our
                            country' bent and bowed by the sacred oak and offered up his
                            fervent supplication to the God of glory, liberty, and equality for all
                            men. If we, as a nation, will only adopt and put into practice those
                            bright models of constitutional jurisprudence practiced by our fathers,
                            our future greatness and celebrity are certain. Our proud country will
                            then become an example worthy of imitation, executing existing laws,
                            punishing gross violations of justice and humanity, and at all times and
                            in all places protecting the good, the industrious, and the virtuous.
                            Then, with free gravel roads, Christianity, morality, intellectual
                            cultivation, industry, and social virtue, fostered by the free use of
                            the roads, we will be stimulated to deeds of valor, patriotism, and
                            benevolence, until we are possessed with and surrounded by all those
                            blessings that are refining and ennobling to all our better natures and
                            that are lovely to the eyes of men.
                        *I give to them an empire without bounds and with-
                            out temporal limitation.
                        
                        "I declare to you, through the farmers of this country, that the
                            United, States will yet stand forth, with all its mineral resources, all
                            its farm products, all its intellectual and diversified combinations of
                            power, as the protector and the defender of individual liberty, equal
                            rights, and infant republics. Our morals, learning, wealth, inventions,
                            productive genius, and the prevalent spirit and disposition for mutual
                            prosperity, happiness, and national renown will combine all contrary and
                            conflicting interests into one broad, expanding political faith and
                            common agreement as to what is right and just among a people in a
                            government of such vast wealth and a multiplicity of pursuits. The
                            United States--Indiana, with its free gravel roads, included--will
                            assume its position as the model government in the list of civilized
                            nations, in the free exercise of those liberties which are so dearly
                            prized by all lovers of right--namely, freedom of speech, freedom of
                            action, religion, education, unrestricted liberty, with a universal and
                            uniform diffusion of information, or knowledge. Then justice, mercy,
                            hospitality, and forbearance will be exercised wherever American
                            jurisdiction and free gravel roads are recognized. Yes, this government
                            of ours will continue through the entire course of conflicting events
                            and revolutions, with my banner unfurled, as at first, to the air of
                            liberty and independence; inscribed with examples of moral justice,
                            furnishing abundant illustration of the great truth and the importance
                            of its being applied; showing that ignorance among the people governed
                            is the only reliable support of arbitrary power and misrule; and
                            revealing to all that we are building free gravel roads and are engaged
                            in disseminating those republican and 
                            democratic virtues and that Christian fellowship and refinement which
                            are destined to overthrow every system of political oppression and
                            tyranny throughout the entire habitable globe--that these virtues and
                            this fellowship and refinement constitute the only safe and infallible
                            foundation on which to build a government for a free-thinking,
                            intelligent, and noble people.
                        "I am now satisfied that our tollgate defenders can appreciate a
                            few lines from Moore:
                        
                            "'We feel like one who treads alone
                            Some banquet hall deserted,
                            Whose lights are fled, whose garland's dead;
                            And all but us departed.'"
                        
                        As a phonograph reveals the most important characters of the present age,
                            so herein are revealed the imperishable words of Professor Cunningham in
                            his nobleness of soul and grandeur of purpose.
                        
                            "Truth crushed to earth shall rise again."
                        
                        Though the dazzling mirror be peculiar in its reflection and make-up, it
                            leaves this valuable image, while this mysterious planet of ours
                            continues its revolutions, casting its illuminating rays upon the most
                            precious gems of earth.
                        Soon after this speech Professor Cunningham was walking along a street in
                            Alamo, looking this way and that way, when Squire Truax accosted him
                            thus: "Professor Cunningham, what are you doing?"
                        Professor Cunningham replied: "I'm invoicing the d---d
                            town; if I like it, I'll buy it."
                    
                    
                    
                        CHAPTER IX.
                        While these memorable things were taking place, Blue Blossom was with
                            Sherman in his famous march to the sea, thence to Richmond. The constant
                            move of the army made the mails uncertain. Opportunities to write were
                            very scarce, and letters from the front were few. Lovers and parents
                            grew very impatient to hear news from their dear ones. Blue
                            Blossom's letters came farther and farther apart, until all
                            trace of him was lost.
                        Bryant, the detective, had tasted the fruits of a still on
                            Green's Creek, which he pronounced as genuine old
                            "corn tassel;" but the "sleuthhound"
                            could not find the still, though his olfactory nerves were good and his
                            gustatory apparatus was a genuine tester of the essence of
                            "corn tassel" distilled from the fruits of so many
                            beautiful flowers. Bryant believed that he had located the distiller in
                            the person of Emanuel Shoaf, but he could not locate the distillery. The
                            suspect had a beautiful daughter, who did the marketing of the
                            "corn tassel." So Bryant pretended to be in love with
                            her, and his love was reciprocated. This he thought would lead to the
                            discovery of the "moonshine" still, avoiding  much danger and inconvenience on his
                            part. Bryant made an engagement with Margaret Shoaf for an evening call.
                            He drove along the road, which, in its meandering course, crossed and
                            recrossed the little stream, until he came to a little cove by the side
                            of the stream--a beautiful, sheltered nook. Here, in this calm, tranquil
                            place, was situated Emanuel Shoaf's residence. There was
                            nothing suspicious about it. It was constructed from the natural forest
                            in a style of simplicity. There stood Margaret's market wagon,
                            which had conveyed many a gallon of the "oil of joy"
                            to market. Margaret, dressed in up-to-date fashion, met him with a
                            smile. She was by no means "slow." Being in the
                            marketing business, meeting the shrewdest of men, she well knew the ways
                            of the world. Bryant could not help admiring her, while at the same time
                            he was peering into every little crevice for a clew to the stillhouse.
                            No one was seen, save Margaret and her mother. Bryant had often seen
                            smoke coming from the house flue at all hours of the hot summer days,
                            which he thought was very suspicious in this locality. He seated himself
                            by the side of Margaret, where he spent a very pleasant evening. She
                            gave him a good drink of the "oil of joy." He smacked
                            his lips, thanked her, spoke of the meritorious quality of the liquid,
                            and asked her if it was made near there.
                        "No, sir," she said. "I have an uncle, who
                            sent it to me. It is imported 'corn
                            tassel.'"
                        
                        This gave Bryant to understand that Margaret was alert and was not to be
                            tampered with. Her cheeks did not even color, and she appeared
                            indifferent to his question. Isolated as she was, she was in touch with
                            the brain of the world.
                        Bryant left with little encouragement; but he made another engagement, so
                            as not to arouse suspicion by his presence about the premises. He
                            decided to go earlier the next time, so as to reconnoiter.
                        Margaret came to town as usual with her marketing. Bryant greeted her
                            with happy words and kind graces, and told her that he would be down to
                            see her in a few days.
                        One afternoon Bryant went to fill his engagement, and he saw smoke
                            curling over the house top, and the odor of "corn
                            tassel" was in the air.
                        "Ah," said he, "it is here
                            somewhere."
                        He looked around, and behind the barn he saw a door opening into a cave.
                            There he thought it must be, but there were no windows to admit light.
                            He spent the evening with Margaret. He again imbibed freely of the
                            extract of "corn tassel," and praised the oily fluid.
                            His circulation had increased under its spell, his imagination was
                            enhanced, and he had assumed an air of bravery. 'So, as night
                            was approaching, he made an engagement with Margaret, bade her adieu,
                            and started for home. After driving up the road. about one-half mile, he
                            stopped and hitched his horse. He was deter-  mined to investigate the cave; so he went around on top of
                            the high bank, and there he beheld a peculiar light, which was first
                            flickering, then glowing. The spell under which the rich "corn
                            tassel" had placed him caused thoughts of evil spirits to come
                            over him at this time of night. However, he went on; and a light, much
                            like that of the rainbow, shone on the trees. Then thoughts of a pot of
                            gold lured him on, and he came closer and closer to the little cave.
                            Here he beheld a skylight in a mound of earth and a brilliant fire
                            beneath, where Mr. Shoaf was making the extract of "corn
                            tassel." He watched for some time, and then went home. But Mr.
                            Shoaf had discovered his enemy; for on the wall hung a large mirror for
                            the reflection of light, and Bryant in bold relief was shown in it as he
                            crouched down upon the top of the bank. The smoke and the steam were
                            conveyed through a pipe to the house, where they passed up the chimney
                            and mixed with the elements. Mr. Shoaf could do nothing but await his
                            arrest.
                        Bryant had a "tip" of another distillery down on Mill
                            Creek. The distillery was run by Daniel Johnson, who was an expert
                            "moonshiner." He pretended to work at the timber
                            business, but he made an excellent article of the "oil of
                            joy."
                        These were the last illicit stills, but a great many more men engaged in
                            the traffic. John Murphy, John Hybarger, and John Shular ran the last
                            stills before the reformation, in the springtide of joy and
                            sunshine.
                        
                        Bryant disappeared one quiet day, and then came the storm cloud which
                            settled over the brakes of Green's Creek. The shower fell
                            heaviest upon Shoaf and Johnson, who were arrested and taken to
                            Indianapolis to answer for their unlawful doings. Shoaf called to his
                            assistance Hon. Miles Ratcliff, who soon took in the situation. His
                            defense was imbecility, which was carried out to the letter. Shoaf wore
                            long hair, and the dampness of the cave seemed to promote its growth.
                            According to directions, while he was incarcerated at Indianapolis, he
                            did not groom it; and, he soon looked like a Circassian lady, in her
                            flowing, airy, bushy curls, or the bushy head of a wild buffalo. When
                            Shoaf was brought before the court, His Majesty was soon convinced that
                            he was non compos mentis; so he was reprimanded and
                            set free. It is sufficient to say, however, that the pretender still
                            lives and is able to care for himself. Johnson was fined and turned
                            loose. Thus ended the famous business of "moonshining"
                            at Jackville.
                        Professor Cunningham was at home, and was honored and revered by all. He
                            had become the stately monarch of Jackville, and wore his honors
                            proudly. His ambition had been crowned with wonderful achievement. He
                            had been called upon to vote upon the fourteenth and the fifteenth
                            amendments to the Constitution of the United States; and being a Jackson
                            Democrat, he resigned and came home, though the county soon returned him
                            to the Legislature.
                        
                        The Professor soon drove over to see Molly Bruno, whose cheeks were as
                            sweet as a rose in the dewy morning. She met him with the same sweet
                            smile as on former occasions. She took his beaver hat and escorted him
                            to the parlor, where, like two lovely children at play, they spent a few
                            happy hours. The Professor narrated a great many things which had taken
                            place in the Legislature, especially the animated debates, in which he
                            had always taken part. Molly was delighted with his great success.
                        Ada Morgan went over and joined the happy pair, eager to learn about the
                            affairs at the Capitol. As the day grew cooler, they went out and sat in
                            the nursery swing; and the birds nestled and sung overhead in the boughs
                            of the leafy trees. In this haven of rest they sat and conversed.
                            Presently the conversation turned toward the war and Blue Blossom. As
                            none of them had heard of him since he arrived at Atlanta, they
                            expressed their fears for him. Molly seemed despondent, and said but
                            little; while many a thought, mingled with fear, passed through her
                            loving heart.
                        Julius Harlow came along and joined the company for a pleasant
                            conversation. It seemed like the happy meetings of other days, when the
                            lovers met for social greetings amid the shady vistas near Luthern. The
                            Professor straightened himself up and narrated some of the doings of the
                            political peoples of the State. Some of them came from the swamp regions
                            of the  north; others, from the rolling
                            hills of the south--all exhibiting the peculiar traits and manners of
                            their respective sections; but the real "Hoosier" was
                            ever present, guarding his sacred liberty, which he regarded as dear to
                            him as his life. The Professor was well aware that Julius Harlow had a
                            mission to perform which had been deeply plotted by some
                            "unknown" villain; so he soon took his leave of them
                            for the evening, leaving the happy trio in the nursery swing enjoying
                            the sweet autumnal breeze. If he could but have had a heart for the
                            feelings of others, he would have sunk down in his tracks. Blue Blossom
                            had written to Molly, but the letter had been lost in some strange
                            manner; and Molly did not know that he had written to her.
                        Julius Harlow broached the subject of the war, and told Molly that he had
                            received a letter from the seat of hostilities announcing the death of
                            Blue Blossom; and, pulling the letter from his pocket, he read it to
                            Molly, as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        "UNION CAMP, RICHMOND, VA.
                                        "Dear Julius Harlow:
                                        We are all well, and are look- ing forward to the close
                                            of the war. We now have the enemy completely surrounded,
                                            and we expect to make their burning appetites do the
                                            rest. Our dear friend, Blue Blossom, was killed by the
                                            Confederates' explod- ing a mine under our
                                            camp. It is sad news to us all. Believe me,
                                        
                                            Your true friend,
                                            FRANK HORN."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        As this letter purported to come from an old friend,  Molly could not doubt its genuineness. Great tears stood
                            in her eyes, and she gasped: "O God, take me with the one that
                            I loved better than myself!"
                        She wrung her hands and moaned, weeping bitterly; and, unconsciously
                            clasping in her fingers the keepsake which Blue Blossom had given her,
                            she turned it round and round.
                        Molly's deep grief touched the heart of Julius Harlow. He had
                            intended to escort Ada Morgan home; but Molly would not be pacified, and
                            Ada Morgan stayed to comfort her.
                        Believing the statement regarding the death of Blue Blossom,
                            Molly's mind reverted to the scenes of Wolf Creek, where life
                            was a joy to them.
                        Julius Harlow went away with a heavy heart, thinking seriously of the
                            fate of Judas.
                        Some of the soldiers were coming home from the war, among the number
                            being William Geeting and John Murphy. Murphy engaged in the grocery
                            business, and became very wealthy. He kept a fireproof safe in his
                            store, and his shining dust he laid away in its trusty vault. Unlike the
                            Professor and Blue Blossom, he led a secluded life; but he was alert for
                            the trade of the community, and tradition has it that he slept upon a
                            goodly wallet of Chase's "government shin
                            plasters." Brave as a lion, he slept as sound as Achilles on
                            the battlefield of Troy. But in autumn's full harvest came the
                            fate of him who slept in the midst of plenty. Mur-  phy slept in his store close to his strong box. One night,
                            while the cock's clarion was still and the katydid sung not,
                            some evil doers came, with bad intent, to carry away this resplendent
                            treasure, the savings of many years. The fiends made an opening near the
                            front door and went in for the coveted treasure. No doubt in the dark
                            shades of night a misstep, the grating of a burglar's tool, or
                            a tug at a quilt of his bed aroused the sleeper, whose iron will meant
                            destruction to the fiendish intruders as he arose and poised himself
                            upon the bed. Two shots rang out, and John Murphy lay dead upon the
                            floor.
                        Dr. Livengood, whose house was across the alley from the store, arose;
                            but there was a "rap, rap, rap !" upon his door, and a
                            coarse voice spoke out in an emphatic tone: "Stay in, under
                            doom of death!"
                        The Doctor obeyed the woeful mandate. He could see through his casement
                            curtain into Murphy's store, and he beheld a large man, masked
                            in Black, rifling the store. Scared nigh unto death; the Doctor never
                            set foot upon the earth's green sward until dawn.
                        The robbers took the strong box out of the safe, and carried it some
                            distance north to an old mill, where they opened it, losing a valuable
                            gold coin and some pennies. Then they dispersed, to be heard of no
                            more.
                        When the villagers awakened, the sad news spread like wildfire; but the
                            culprits had flown.
                        Pretty soon a one-eyed detective came upon the trail,  imbibing plenty of the essence of
                            "corn tassel," sleeping in old goods boxes, and
                            playing the freaks of a clown in general. He stayed for more than a
                            month, but accomplished nothing by his many eccentricities; so he sought
                            his former home in Terre Haute, on the sunny banks of the Wabash River,
                            to run a second-hand store, for which he was better adapted.
                        In those days there was grit in Jackville; for even the prosecutor, in
                            the court of inquiry, was made to cry out, "Murder,
                            murder!" as he took to the woods, while an elm club was being
                            twirled about his head like an Irish shillalah.
                        After a few days of quiet and rest, the Professor went over to Mr.
                            Bruno's to see Molly. He met Mr. Bruno in the yard, and they
                            seated themselves on the piazza for a friendly talk. The war furnished a
                            good topic of conversation, along with the freedom of the blacks and
                            negro equality. The Professor had resigned his seat in the Legislature
                            rather than vote upon the fourteenth and the fifteenth amendments to the
                            Constitution of the United States, which brought about these things. Mr.
                            Bruno was a Democrat, and he was in accord with the Professor's
                            ideas. Presently Molly came along and stopped for a moment. Mr. Bruno
                            gave place to her, and retired, leaving the two lovers there alone. On
                            the piazza was a quaint old rustic seat, made of small saplings
                            intertwined and forming a neat settee. Here Molly sat down beside the
                            Pro-  fessor, and they engaged in happy
                            conversation about the topics of the day. The Professor spoke in tones
                            rather mild and sympathetic, so as to be in harmony with
                            Molly's despondent feelings. Presently she mentioned to him the
                            death of Mr. Oliver, and asked him if he had heard of it. The Professor
                            replied that he had heard of it, expressing his deep sympathy for her.
                            He explained in his philosophic way how God, in his infinite wisdom,
                            calls for the souls of men in many and various ways, but that we have
                            hope of a reunion with our friends in another world. This was a great
                            consolation to her, as she hoped to meet her lover again on those
                            enchanting shores.
                        As time rolled on, Molly became more attached to the Professor; and he
                            pressed his suit the more, telling her how well he loved her, and that
                            he could never be happy without her. He asked her for her heart and hand
                            in marriage. Believing that Blue Blossom was dead, she consented to
                            marry the Professor. This was May Day for him; he would almost have
                            given his life for her. Life with him then was one sweet song. He
                            insisted on a speedy marriage, but Molly did not want to marry so soon
                            after the death of Mr. Oliver; so the wedding day was deferred until
                            some time in the future.
                        Blue Blossom was at Richmond, Va.; and by his meritorious conduct he had
                            become a captain. Thinking that he would soon be at home, he did not
                            write  any more letters to any one. This
                            was good for the Professor, who was taking Molly regularly in his buggy
                            to Wolf Creek to church and making preparations for their marriage.
                        Ada Morgan went over to see Molly, who revealed to Ada the secret of her
                            engagement to the Professor; but Ada requested Molly not to be in a
                            hurry about getting married. She said that Blue Blossom might not be
                            dead; that they had not seen his death reported in the casualties in the
                            leading paper, the Veedersburg News.
                        "O, yes; he is dead!" exclaimed Molly. "I saw
                            a letter from Mr. Horn to Julius Harlow, which told how Blue
                            Blossom's death occurred."
                        Mr. Bruno was well pleased with his daughter's betrothal to
                            Professor Cunningham, and he began making preparations to give his
                            daughter a fine infare.
                        By this time General Lee had cut his way through the Union lines, and
                            escaped to Appomattox Courthouse, where General Grant surrounded and
                            captured him. Blue Blossom was in the chase, and he did valuable
                            service. After the capture of General Lee, Blue Blossom was transferred
                            to Washington City, where he remained for some time, holding his men in
                            readiness about the city.
                        The news of Lee's surrender brought happiness to many a Northern
                            home; the wives and sweethearts who had given the parting kiss to their
                            loved ones were expecting to be reunited soon. Each day and hour some
                                 one was coming home, and a constant
                            watch was kept by anxious ones on the many byways and highways which
                            once led the way to happy homes.
                        The President of the United States, by the grace of God, had issued a
                            proclamation of public thanksgiving, on November 25, for the deliverance
                            of the nation. The Professor had persuaded Molly that that would be a
                            good day for their marriage; so ten o'clock on Thanksgiving Day
                            was set as the hour for the marriage. Every preparation was made for the
                            grand occasion. The Professor sent invitations to some of his friends in
                            the Legislature to be present at the wedding; Rev. William Allen, of
                            Wolf Creek Church, was also invited to be present.
                        Molly was seen no more in the mill, and it became a lonely place, indeed;
                            for her lovely presence added sunshine to every place into which she
                            entered.
                        The government had set a day in which to review the soldiers before being
                            mustered out, and the solid columns of soldiers passed in front of the
                            United States Capitol in grand array. Blue Blossom rode a horse, and his
                            fine physique was delightful to look upon. All this was unknown to
                            Molly, who went about getting ready to be married to the Professor.
                        After the review of the valiant "boys in blue," a great
                            many were discharged, among them being the gallant Blue Blossom, who
                            boarded a train for home. Arriving at Indianapolis, he was detained for
                            several days. Here  he made the
                            acquaintance of Governor Morton, who talked to him a great deal about
                            the troubles in Jackville and vicinity. He spoke of Professor Cunningham
                            as a great champion of the people, and said that it was reported that he
                            was soon to be married to the belle of Jackville, and that he had
                            invited some of the members of the General Assembly to be present. This
                            aroused the fears of Blue Blossom, who realized that something had gone
                            wrong. He boarded a train for home, and it could not go fast enough for
                            him. He almost gasped for breath, as though he were walking for dear,
                            life. He thought that if he had the wings of a dove he would fly to his
                            home in an instant. On sped the train, and ever and anon Blue Blossom
                            looked out of the window to see some familiar object. Finally he reached
                            Veedersburg. As he alighted upon the platform, he was recognized by the
                            citizens. They shook hands with him, detaining him; and he thought that
                            he would never get away. His father was there, and he greeted his son
                            with a father's joy. They then got into the wagon and started
                            for home. The black charger was hitched to the wagon. Blue Blossom spoke
                            to him; and, recognizing his master's voice, he pricked up his
                            ears and started off at a lively gait. They soon arrived at their home,
                            and the youthful hero of "Hell's Half Acre"
                            was again monarch of the wood.
                        The report of a soldier's coming in so suddenly caused Ada
                            Morgan to think that it might be Blue Blossom;  and, remembering her pledge to him, and as there were no
                            telephones in use in those days except the
                            "shoe-string" lines, she borrowed a horse from her
                            father and went down to see who the soldier was.
                        Blue Blossom was standing in the front yard, looking wistfully toward
                            Jackville. He saw Ada coming, and recognized her. He ran to meet her.
                            Throwing his arms around her and kissing her, he said: "God
                            bless you, Ada! How is Molly?"
                        "O, she is well," said Ada; "and she is going
                            to be married to-morrow."
                        "O, heavens!" exclaimed Blue Blossom. "Can it
                            be possible?"
                        "Yes," replied Molly. "She saw a letter
                            stating that you were dead; and when her sorrow for you wore away, she
                            consented to marry Professor Cunningham."
                        "Why, Ada, that would break my heart! " exclaimed Blue
                            Blossom.
                        "I am certain that she would yet marry you," said Ada,
                            "if she knew you were alive; for she has often told me
                            so."
                        "God bless you, Ada!" again exclaimed Blue Blossom.
                            "Never was woman so true. I will yet have her. Will you go to
                            see her for me? Whatever may be my fate, I will have her. Ada, tell her
                            that I still have the memento that she placed upon my breast at our
                            parting," he continued, at the same time pointing to the golden
                            heart that adored. his breast; "and if she  will marry me, tell her to be ready at nine
                            o'clock to-morrow in the front yard, and I will rescue her. If
                            she is willing to marry me, have her to place a light in the front
                            window of her room, as a token of her fidelity to me, that I may see it.
                            I shall pass that way in the gloom of night to see if she yet loves me
                            and to look over the route that I shall take to-morrow."
                        Ada took the message, as she was directed. Molly, supposing that Ada was
                            coming to assist her with her wardrobe, greeted her with kindness. In a
                            few moments, however, Ada revealed to Molly the secret of Blue
                            Blossom's being at home, saying that he was still desirous of
                            marrying her.
                        "O, heavens!" exclaimed Molly. "Ada, is it
                            true? Is it true?"
                        "Yes, Molly," replied Ada:; "he came home
                            yesterday, and I saw him to-day."
                        "I'll be true to him, if I live," said Molly.
                            "Some villain has been deceiving me; and but for you, that
                            deception would have killed me."
                        Molly then kissed Ada, falling on her knees before her and asking the
                            Lord to be merciful to her.
                        Ada lifted Molly from her kneeling position and consoled her, telling her
                            not to fret about the wedding of to-morrow; that, if she so desired, Mr.
                            Oliver would come to claim her.
                        "Tell him to come?" said Molly; "by all means
                            tell him to come!"
                        
                        "Dear girl, you have something to do to let him know that you
                            are willing," said Ada.
                        "O, what is it, Ada?" asked Molly.
                        "He requested me to tell you to place a light in your front
                            window, that he may know that you are still willing to marry him. He
                            said that he would be along to-night, and would know if the light was in
                            the window that you are still willing."
                        "I'll do so if I live. I'll hold the light in
                            my hand, that he may see my face and know that it is I."
                        Ada went home, and Molly repaired to her room to think over the
                            situation. "The Professor will be here at ten o'clock
                            in the morning," she said. "What if Mr. Oliver should
                            fail to come? What will I do? He cannot fail. He is true, he is true!
                            I'll watch at the window to see if he passes to-night; and if
                            he passes, I'll know that he will come to claim
                            me."
                        Night had come, and the signal light had been set in its place.
                            Molly's attention was wholly directed toward the road on which
                            Blue Blossom would be most likely to pass. She could not sleep; so she
                            stood by the casement, watching and waiting for him to come. As the
                            clock neared the hour of eleven, she heard the sound of horse's
                            feet in the distance; and she said to herself: "He is coming,
                            he is coming!" She knew the short lope of the charger; so she
                            put her face close to the window to get a glimpse of Blue Blossom as he
                            passed. Soon a bold, plump form came in sight, and  she recognized him. He saw her beautiful face, and the
                            sweet damask roses were still adorning her cheeks. He waved his hand at
                            her, and she answered him in like manner. She thought that she would cry
                            aloud to him and ask him to take her with him, but she knew that would
                            arouse her parents. She had a mind to leap from the window and go with
                            him, but she knew that would be hazardous. So, with an aching heart and
                            a restless soul, she saw him pass slowly out of sight. He kept looking
                            back at her until his view of her was lost in the darkness.
                        "I'll trust him," said Molly. "He has
                            never yet deceived me, and he knows best. I must be resigned to my
                            fate."
                        Seeing that the way was clear, Blue Blossom rode over to consult Ada
                            Morgan and get her to send her father down to Rev. William
                            Allen's and detain him at home until Blue Blossom could reach
                            there; for Rev. Allen had been invited to Professor
                            Cunningham's wedding the next day. Mr. Morgan agreed to
                            intercept Rev. Allen and hold him at home in readiness for the arrival
                            of Blue Blossom and Molly Bruno.
                        Molly could not reveal the peculiar circumstances to any one; especially
                            was it necessary that the Professor be kept "in the
                            dark," for any intimation of her plan to him would be sure to
                            interfere with her getting away from home. Her folks went on preparing
                            for the infare; but Molly took no interest in it, thinking that she
                            would  not be a participant in it unless
                            the dreaded inevitable came. However, she had hopes of circumventing the
                            affair in such a manner as to bring about her own happiness. Her mother
                            tried to cheer her; but she was very indifferent, being in a brown
                            study.
                        Professor Cunningham was busy preparing for the wedding. He invited all
                            of his old friends--Mr. Harlow (the Judas of the affair), Elsie McClain,
                            and a host of others.
                        When the eventful morning came, Molly arose early and began dressing, as
                            her friends thought, for the proposed wedding. Her mother requested her
                            not to dress so soon, as it would be so long till the nuptial hour; but
                            Molly turned a deaf ear to all the many formalities suggested to her and
                            pursued the even tenor of her way. She was preparing for the coming of
                            one whom she loved better than she loved herself, and for whom she was
                            willing to risk her life. None suspected her, and no barriers seemed to
                            be in her way.
                        Blue Blossom gathered his old friends together and placed them along the
                            route that he intended to go, so that if he was too closely pursued,
                            they could throw the pursuers off his track.
                        The guests were soon coming in; and Ada Morgan, on whom Molly relied
                            implicitly, was on the alert to note the coming of Blue Blossom. Ada sat
                            out on the piazza; as soon as Blue Blossom came in sight, she was to
                            notify Molly.
                        
                        Mr. Morgan went down to Rev. Allen's, and found him about ready
                            to start for Mr. Bruno's. Mr. Morgan requested Rev. Allen to
                            wait a short time, as two lovers were coming to have their bond of love
                            made more secure.
                        "Who are they?" asked Rev. Allen.
                        "I cannot tell you now," replied Mr. Morgan.
                        "Do I know them?" inquired Rev. Allen.
                        "Yes," said Mr. Morgan. "Be content, and do
                            not worry, and I'll get you to Mr. Bruno's in
                            time."
                        Their conversation turned upon social matters as they whiled the time
                            away.
                        Rev. Allen, not knowing that Blue Blossom was in the country, said that
                            he congratulated Molly upon captivating such a man as Hon. D. W.
                            Cunningham, who had so distinguished himself in the affairs of the
                            State.
                        The Professor, looking his best, went to Mr. Bruno's earlier
                            than was expected. The thought that Molly would soon be his better half
                            gave additional grace to his beautiful, symmetrical form. With fear in
                            her heart, Molly treated him respectfully. She took him into the parlor
                            to entertain the guests. Visions of deception filled her clouded mind;
                            for she, with her beautiful charms, had been made the victim of tricks
                            and schemes, and she could not forget the perpetrators. Now, too, she
                            was surrounded by them, and was almost afraid to move, lest they should
                            anticipate her plans and thwart them.
                        
                        Blue Blossom arose early and groomed his black charger. He patted the
                            noble animal, saying to him, as though the horse could understand him:
                            "This day, dear boy, you must carry me to victory, or I die of
                            grief. You have never failed me; so do not fail me now." In
                            response the gentle animal fondled him with his chin. Blue Blossom
                            fitted his saddle perfectly to the horse, placed behind it the velvet
                            pillion upon which Molly had sat many a time before, buckled on the
                            cutlass which had served him in the war, and put upon his breast the
                            breastplate of love. Then he leaped into the saddle, ready to meet his
                            antagonist in any way. He drew the reins, and the charger flew toward
                            Mr. Bruno's. Time and distance were as nothing to Blue
                            Blossom.
                        Molly had become restless and nervous, but Ada gave her courage and hope.
                            She still sat on the piazza, watching and waiting for Blue Blossom.
                        Noticing that Molly was very nervous, but ignorant as to the cause, the
                            Professor said to her: "Molly, you are not brave."
                        Molly answered only with a smile, such as a disheartened child would
                            give. Hope was all that kept her alive. She trusted in the coming of
                            Blue Blossom as she trusted in God. Her hat lay in the settee in the
                            piazza, she was already dressed, and the time of her marriage was but an
                            hour in the future. "Will he come? Will he come?" ran
                            through her mind, causing her heart to flutter and almost cease to
                            beat.
                        
                        But--hark!--the sound of a horse loping broke in from the distance; and
                            soon a small, dark object appeared in the distant thoroughfare. Ada
                            Morgan watched it. It kept coming nearer and nearer. Ada watched with
                            the eye of a pilot to discern the gallant rider. Molly could not leave
                            the company for fear of detection.
                        Ada saw that the rider was Blue Blossom, and cried: "O, Molly,
                            come here, quick!"
                        Molly then knew that Blue Blossom was in sight; so she ran out. Ada
                            handed Molly's hat to her, and she ran to meet Blue Blossom. He
                            rode a little beyond the gateway and wheeled his horse to the right; and
                            as he neared the gate, Molly was ready. As he passed, he reached out his
                            hand and clasped Molly's arm. The horse leaned toward her, and
                            he swung her to her seat upon the pillion behind him. Then the black
                            charger sped down the road like a flash of lightning. Her skirts
                            fluttered in the wind as the wings of a bird.
                        The Professor ran out, crying: "Molly, Molly! What will I do?
                            What will I do?"
                        He then leaped into his buggy and pursued them. His buggy swayed and
                            jumped upon the corduroy road, putting his life in great danger. But
                            Fleetfoot was no match for the black charger, who soon left the
                            Professor far behind.
                        Molly's mother wrung her hands and cried after them:
                            "Come back, come back, and I'll forgive you! O, the
                            danger that lies ahead of them!"
                        
                        She feared that the horse would fall at the turn of the road, and that
                            her daughter would be killed; but Blue Blossom had made that turn many
                            times before, and he rounded the curve like a bird balancing in the dome
                            of the heavens. He sped on and on, Molly holding tight to her lover. She
                            felt that she was safe anywhere with him. As he passed along, his
                            comrades shouted for joy, hoping that he would succeed.
                        The Professor followed them until he saw them go in at Rev.
                            Allen's. Then, with a broken heart, he turned back in
                            remorseful spirits.
                        "Good morning, children!" exclaimed Rev. Allen.
                            "I was looking for you."
                        "Be quick, be quick, Mr. Allen! We're pursued,
                            we're pursued," said Blue Blossom.
                        Whereupon the minister put aside the formality of his ritual; and,
                            joining their hands, in the twinkling of an eye he pronounced them
                            husband and wife.
                        This event resulted, of course, in the nullifying of the infare at Mr.
                            Bruno's, where Rev. Allen was to play so conspicuous a
                            part.
                        Molly's heart was at ease as she leaned upon the arm of the
                            hero, whom she idolized. Thenceforth she would share his joys and his
                            sorrows.
                        Rev. Allen invited the "children," as he called them,
                            to stay for dinner; and they accepted the invitation. They fared
                            sumptuously at his table on bear bacon, venison, cakes, jellies, and
                            marmalades.
                        
                        Many a happy day has passed since this memorable event; and in obedience
                            to the ancient command of God to "be fruitful, and multiply,
                            and replenish the earth," the wily Dutchman and Molly now have
                            four children.
                        Dear reader, upon the ruins of the quaint old town of Jackville now
                            stands the beautiful town of Wallace. It is named
                            "Wallace" for the illustrious Governor of the State of
                            Indiana and the father of the author of "Ben-Hur."
                            Wallace is a beautiful, modern town; and it is proud to boast of the
                            fact that it has no saloons. It has a bank, a commissioned high school,
                            churches, and bountiful stores of merchandise. Its citizens are second
                            to none; among them are beautiful, accomplished ladies and honorable,
                            upright men.
                    
                
                
                
                    FOOTBALL AT WABASH.
                    
                        Hurrah, hurrah! Pick up the ball!
                        Give it a grip, and off they go.
                        There's jollity and fun for all.
                        O, how they run and wrestle so!
                    
                    
                        There--hurrah!--Bill, just skip across;
                        You have an inning now at hand.
                        Bob, hedge in, you noble boss.
                        O, how they tussle, battling stand !
                    
                    
                        Now down Bill falls upon the ground;
                        His breast is resting on the ball.
                        Like ravens round a carcass found,
                        They all join in a free for all.
                    
                    
                        Caps are flying and clothes are rent;
                        Some are bruised, but not a cry.
                        Never a word, but all intent.
                        O, see their heels turned to the sky.!
                    
                    
                        Sack on sack they piled them down
                        Upon that bold old hero's frame.
                        Never a murmur or a sigh;
                        He has the grit, and he is game. 
                    
                    
                    
                        Bob has the ball. Hurrah, hurrah!
                        Go, send her home! Be quick, be fast!
                        His only hope is but a draw.
                        His breath is short; he cannot last.
                    
                    
                        Skip in there, Jack, and make that run.
                        The game hangs there. Be quick, be quick!
                        Now, topsy-turvy, down they come,
                        Each determined upon some trick.
                    
                    
                        "No down, no down!" is echoed there.
                        But Jack crawled out, a smothered soul,
                        And ran, as in a gauntlet rare,
                        And placed the ball against the goal.
                    
                    
                        Hurrah, hurrah! The game is won.
                        The hero smiles, with sparkling eye;
                        His praises now are nobly sung
                        In each and every comrade's cry.
                    
                
                
                    CHILDHOOD AT SCHOOL.
                    
                        Sweet are the days of the youth
                        When school is a pleasant retreat;
                        There--happily, pleasant, uncouth--
                        Fair faces the master did greet.
                    
                    
                        The teacher is head of the fold.
                        A cheerful old fellow is he,
                        
                        Imprinting those treasures of gold
                        Which sparkle like sunbeams at sea.
                    
                    
                        But the day of our parting has come.
                        There are pangs piercing deep in our hearts,
                        Which will cause sweet reflections to come,
                        Though many miles distant apart.
                    
                    
                        In our minds we will picture the scene
                        Of our school, with fair faces aglow.
                        An image to-day it does seem.
                        What a pleasure the vision to know !
                    
                    
                        Like a covey of birds we have been,
                        And have nestled together with glee,
                        Gath'ring stores from sweet Nature and men.
                        O, so happy, so happy were we!
                    
                    
                        Could I dream but to-night of the place,
                        And just meet those fair faces at school;
                        But the years are now gone of life's race,
                        And we go where the Father must rule.
                    
                    January 25, 188o.
                
                
                    THE FLOCK I TENDED.
                    
                        Where wander now the flock I tended
                        In those years of long ago?
                        Where are those days so swiftly ended?
                        Alas! I do not know.
                    
                    
                    
                        They are gone, and all are scattered
                        O'er a nation far and wide.
                        Through the storms of life they battled.
                        Lord, I would with them abide.
                    
                    
                        Sweet and fair were all the number.
                        Some now teach in sacred halls.
                        They let the world of passion slumber,
                        And strive to meet the Savior's call.
                    
                    
                        All is changed where once we tarried.
                        Some have wandered 'neath distant skies;
                        Some beneath the turf lie buried;
                        None now greet the master's eyes.
                    
                    
                        Hearts still yearn to. meet those loved ones
                        That we see on earth no more.
                        To the weary some faint hope comes;
                        God has placed a light ashore.
                    
                
                
                    "BEN-HUR."
                    (Written for the State Sentinel after seeing the play
                        "Ben-Hur " at the English Opera House.)
                    
                        I saw the great scene
                        As it passed on the stage--
                        Simonides of old,
                        Who was hoary with age;
                        
                        The helmet and sword
                        Of the hero so fair;
                        And the fairest of maidens,
                        With gem-studded hair.
                        So will I repeat:
                        I must see it again,
                        This wonderful feat
                        So like unto man.
                    
                
                
                    A SYMBOL OF A CITY.
                    
                        There hangs upon the trees to-day
                        A glittering robe of snow,
                        A citadel like one above
                        The saints immortal know.
                    
                    
                        A light gleams ever as of life,
                        So distant it seems to me
                        An image city of the dead,
                        Clothed in Nature's mystery.
                    
                    
                        There sparkling gems like astrals shine,
                        And banish all my cares;
                        A glorious vision that I love
                        Comes over me unawares.
                    
                    
                        So distant are these brilliant scenes
                        That spirits in transit share--
                        Sweet image isle beyond the sky;
                        The flowers of earth are there.
                    
                    
                    
                        In mind we see the hosts of God
                        That seem so near akin!
                        Soul-like around a throne of grace,
                        Shadows of immortal men.
                    
                    
                        Am I dreaming or assuming
                        Wondrous things that are to be ?
                        Throne of heaven, sheen of glory;
                        God is seen in purity.
                    
                    
                        Symbol of an ancient city
                        Seen from Patmos, in the sea;
                        Vision of a glorious twilight.
                        God is life, eternity.
                    
                    December 8, 1902.
                
                
                    THE WAVELAND SCRIBE.
                    
                        When you hear a writer fussing,
                        You may guess his purse is short.
                        I perceive his nerves are playing
                        Nettling strains about his heart.
                    
                    
                        But--alas!--he's not relented;
                        Let him pipe and let him kick.
                        Sad that he, so much demented,
                        Never learned a better trick.
                    
                    
                        He is not akin to Midas,
                        Who with fortune has grown old;
                        
                        He can only watch and chide us.
                        A sweet fountain we behold.
                    
                    
                        He must keep near by his humble
                        Piebald printing, printing press,
                        There to cut and slash and grumble
                        Till the Master gives him rest.
                    
                    
                        Then he must give place to silence,
                        Tart though be his little tongue.
                        He may there sip at the chalice,
                        While a fun'ral dirge is sung.
                    
                    
                        He will then live with the Master,
                        As a spirit brother should.
                        There will never come disaster
                        When the heart is pure and good.
                    
                
                
                    THE HOPE WE CHERISHED.
                    (Written on the appointment of A. B. Anderson to the Supreme
                        Judgeship.)
                    
                        As a spark in the gloom,
                        Time has brought to the light
                        Many visions unknown,
                        That were hidden from sight.
                    
                    
                        In effect is a cause
                        That relations must share.
                        In adjudging of laws
                        Must be wisdom and care.
                    
                    
                    
                        In the breast of a man
                        Lies the balance of fate.
                        From a robe that is clean
                        Let the judgment be great.
                    
                    
                        For as One on the throne
                        That has conscience so pure
                        Comes a man from our home,
                        May our hopes be secure.
                    
                
                
                    LET A LITTLE SUNSHINE IN.
                    (Written while it was raining.)
                    
                        When the sky is dark and gloomy
                        And the portents seem as foul,
                        Get a smiling look upon you;
                        You must never fret and scowl.
                        Soon the sky will turn to purple
                        And a brighter shade begin.
                        Let the heart be light and cheery;
                        Let a little sunshine in.
                    
                    
                        Though there seems to be a mountain
                        That you soon must try to climb,
                        Never fret about the effort;
                        Never let the heart repine.
                        Look aloft! Behold the heavens--
                        How a little cloud begins !
                        
                        So is brought about your sorrow.
                        Let a little sunshine in.
                    
                    
                        When the air waves seem a-weaving
                        Things we do not understand,
                        There can be no use in fretting
                        Where kind Nature wheels the van.
                        Let the heart be pure and cheerful.
                        Do not mar the soul within.
                        Meet the storm, and meet it bravely;
                        Let a little sunshine in.
                    
                    
                        Though you think about the billows
                        That are rolling o'er the sea,
                        They are but the work of Nature
                        For a child like you and me.
                        Look we at the polar heavens,
                        At the polestar bright and trim;
                        Sail we safely o'er the shallows.
                        Let a little sunshine in.
                    
                    
                        Charming are the scenes of Nature
                        That must please a weary soul;
                        Mystic are the dreams of glory;
                        Wondrous is the sheenlike scroll.
                        How a Spirit reigns above us,
                        How such impulse rules within,
                        Know we not; but He will guide us.
                        Let the glorious sunshine in.
                    
                    December 20, 1902.
                
                
                
                    THE STOLEN BOOK.
                    
                        Let the naughty crook that stole your book
                        Come forward and ante up;
                        Let the sneaking thief come give relief
                        And drink of the better cup.
                    
                    
                        Returning things that memory stings
                        In shades of mystic light,
                        Let him come, confess, and give redress,
                        And make the matter right.
                    
                    January 5, 1903.
                
                
                    TO A FRIEND, IRA D. GOSS, A SENIOR IN WABASH COLLEGE.
                    
                        My dear friend, Goss, I love thee well.
                        Let your sweet voice with anthems swell
                        To Him above;
                        Start out bravely on the way;
                        Sing his praises night and day
                        In filial love.
                    
                
                
                    I AM WALKING IN HIS GLORY.
                    
                        I am walking in the glory
                        Of my God, who reigns above.
                        In his life I read the story:
                        He's the fountain of my love.
                    
                    
                    
                        Could I be like him in meekness!
                        Could I live as pure as he!
                        All his loving deeds remind us
                        How he died for you and me.
                    
                    
                        Let me follow in his shadow,
                        Where the clouds are rift for me;
                        Sweet the echoes that I follow
                        From the Christ of Galilee.
                    
                    
                        From the mystic realm of heaven
                        Shines a bright and glorious star.
                        Let my soul, like wing of raven,
                        Soar to heavenly gates ajar.
                    
                    December 24, 1902.
                
                
                    THE ROUND TABLE.
                    
                        What is the round table? A string of knots,
                        Like decaying rubbish, that lies and rots.
                        Where is the life the creature should bear?
                        'Tis found in the waste 'most anywhere.
                        No murmur is heard like a bubbling spring,
                        No rippling waters and birds to sing,
                        But as cold as Greenland's icy shoals,
                        Where the fox and sable dig their holes;
                        No warmth within like a summer clime;
                        The thought effete; no pleasing rhyme.
                        
                        Their poets are dead, their muse is cold;
                        The dross overlaps the shining gold.
                        The sentiment weak, hidden in smoke;
                        They try a pun, but only poke.
                        O, give us a stream that flows to the sea!
                        Just give us a "jolly," and laugh will we;
                        We'll pour out the soul as it ought to pour;
                        Sentiment and meter--'twill open the door.
                        Quick the emotion will ever start
                        From a thinking soul, from a bubbling heart.
                        It pleases the mind, the inward man;
                        While worlds go flying around the sun.
                        So let them whirl and let them fly;
                        O, save me, Lord, from poems dry!
                    
                
                
                    GOOD NIGHT.
                    
                        The pretty moss bed lying here
                        Holds a mystery to me dear.
                        'Tis ever growing, growing green;
                        Sweet realms above in it are seen.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    
                        Each pretty flower lives and dies,
                        Like living mortals close their eyes.
                        They do not die; they only sleep.
                        The angels round them vigils keep.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    
                    
                        Their fragrance scarcely dies away,
                        When it is spring and it is day.
                        The God of hosts is always near;
                        He comes and calls them ev'rywhere.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    
                        The birds that sing in notes of love
                        Cheer up the heart and blessings prove;
                        Murmuring leaves that twirl and sigh
                        Give voice to souls that reign on high.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    
                        The stars that gem the vaulted sky
                        Are meteor lights unto the eye.
                        They are the worlds that shine above;
                        Their unison must teach us love.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    
                        The twilight of the dying day,
                        Bright, iridescent, passes away--
                        An emblem of the oversoul,
                        A gleaming of the future goal.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    
                        The sighing wind of glade or glen
                        Is but a voice to dying men,
                        And in the mountain's crested dome
                        I see a gleam that speaks of home.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    
                    
                        The radiance of the morning sun
                        Melts the stars, and they are one.
                        So shine the souls that pass away;
                        They join the Son in endless day.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    
                        So let me rest, in peace abide,
                        In scenes like those at eventide.
                        Immortal man; must rest in bliss
                        Where eerie souls seek happiness.
                        Good night, good night!
                    
                    January 12, 1903.
                
                
                    ACROSTIC.
                    
                        Gracefully the river runs;
                        Elysian it glides along,
                        Radiant with sparkling gems.
                        The tide is beautiful and strong;
                        Royal are the shining shells
                        Under the brilliant, glowing sun.
                        Down in balmy river dells
                        Enchanting, sweet dreams will come.
                    
                
                
                    THE LONG-HAIRED HORSEWEED OF THE WABASH.
                    
                        From hills of Jackville sprang this weed,
                        Which soon had run to sooty seed.
                        
                        He started then to teaching school,
                        And sat as chief on a dunce's stool;
                        And, starting then for old Wabash,
                        He soon devoured quite all their hash.
                        He only stayed a fortnight's sit;
                        He then corrected holy writ.
                        The version of St. James, with grace,
                        This "smart Aleck" could sow to waste.
                        O, how this horseweed learned so well!
                        He found in mind the fumes of hell.*
                        He failed in learning's mystic views,
                        Then drifted to another ruse.
                        As agent then he sought galore,
                        And stalked about from door to door.
                        Good housewives met him with a grin,
                        But held with ease their shining tin;
                        And failing here, he thought to draw
                        A bounteous harvest from the law;
                        And, starting in with great intent,
                        His force of mind quite soon was spent.
                        While holding court at quaint Jackville,
                        He ran a race of speed and skill.
                        The man he thought to sorely loot
                        Just whipped around and mashed his snout.
                        So frightened was this faithless warder
                        He ran and bellowed: "Murder, murder!"
                    
                    * Hell--supposed to be by this character the annoyance
                        of one's mind while on earth.
                    
                    
                        This was a freak of Nature's hand,
                        A little trick of magic wand.
                        It was the hell he conjured of,
                        While changing of the sacred law.
                        Then, seeking the flowing river's side,
                        He cast commission on the tide.
                        There came an aching within his breast--
                        God-given warning to stop, redress,
                        And see his failures, mountain high,
                        That shrouded and blurred a sparkling eye.
                        Then, casting off the syllogism,
                        He took upon him journalism.
                        He started vainly in with pride
                        To scatter wisdom and deride.
                        From sheet of truth large octavo,
                        Crestfallen, it now is folio.
                        This almanac of aches and ills
                        Is like a dose of blue-mass pills.
                        The motley sheet is sick to die;
                        It scarcely now can wink one eye,
                        So measly does it mope about.
                        The long-haired horseweed has run out;
                        And with it, too, will die its lord,
                        With pumpkin head as green as gourd.
                        Good people now should ponder well
                        On man who thinks on earth is hell;
                        Steer clear of those who chide and fuss,
                        Whose heads are filled with naught but pus,
                    
                
                
                
                    BEAUTIFUL LADOGA.
                    
                        O, Ladoga; O, Ladoga,
                        What a lovely town are you!
                        You are just a gem of beauty,
                        Glowing sweet with honeydew.
                    
                    
                        O, Ladoga; O, Ladoga,.
                        Let your light still shine afar!
                        O, such neatness as you render
                        Guides the soul across the bar!
                    
                    
                        Let your splendor move the shadow
                        That would be a gloaming shade;
                        Move yourself in peaceful ardor;
                        Let your annals there be made.
                    
                    
                        You are second, too, in glory,
                        In a county's noble strife.
                        Be achieving, still pursuing,
                        For a greater, nobler life.
                    
                    
                        Still go on and build, dear city;
                        Let your castles reach the sky.
                        That is what the Master bids you;
                        Let Ladoga live on high.
                    
                    
                        In that aerial, unknown city
                        Many mansions make the whole;
                        It is but a sea of shadows,
                        Like unto the oversoul.
                    
                    January 28, 1903.
                
                
                
                    THE FOUR POETS.
                    
                        One has crossed the pearly sea.
                        He left a keepsake I hold in fee;
                        He gave to me some pleasing lore;
                        I love to scan it o'er and o'er.
                    
                    
                        One has written of religion cold--
                        Little Gabe in a lambkin fold;
                        He chewed tobacco, flecked his chin--
                        A queer disciple for Christ has been.
                    
                    
                        Another was born to make you laugh;
                        He gave the theme "Old Wabbly Calf."
                        "The raggedy man" just led it out;
                        The children would laugh and gayly shout.
                    
                    
                        The last of all we would let pass,
                        But he has written "Old Sas'fras;"
                        He made the rhythm so sweet and fine,
                        With sentiment tart in every line.
                    
                    
                        This Jim and Jim and Jamie Jim--
                        They write about 'most any whim;
                        And in their misty dreams of flight
                        They give a color that is bedight.
                    
                    
                        They picture gems of brilliant glow;
                        They please the heart and solace woe;
                        They give the true, the good, sublime,
                        Drinking from the heavenly shrine.
                    
                
                
                
                    TWO LITTLE PETS.
                    
                        Two little pets ma gave to me
                        That hatched out at the barn.
                        What lovely things they are to see!
                        They scratch dear mamma's lawn.
                    
                    
                        They lie around where it is warm,
                        And bask out in the sun.
                        O, who could think to do them harm
                        Or stop their noisy fun?
                    
                    
                        I love to smooth their downy dress
                        And press them to my chin.
                        Kind Nature's children I'll caress,
                        And warm their hearts within.
                    
                    
                        They cuddle in a little nook,
                        And sit on bended knees.
                        So innocent they crouch and look,
                        While whispering: "Freeze, freeze!"
                    
                    
                        O, who could take their joyful life,
                        Which they so dearly love?
                        O, who could draw the gleaming knife,
                        From them sweet life remove?
                    
                    
                        Endeared to me, I will not take
                        That which I cannot give.
                        I love to hear them peep and prate.
                        Go, fondlings! You shall live.
                    
                    
                    
                        Come, seek the waste and scattered Iregs
                        That lie about my door.
                        I only ask some golden eggs;
                        I'd like about a score.
                    
                    February 8, 1903.
                
                
                    ODE TO AMERICA.
                    
                        O, glorious America, of thee we sing!
                        Precious gem of the earth, rich blessings bring.
                        With thy hills and vales, so blessed are we,
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free.
                    
                    
                        Thy golden hills, with their flowing springs,
                        Are clothed in dress that would rival kings.
                        The wild flower's breath is a balm to me
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free.
                    
                    
                        Thy beautiful waters of purling streams,
                        In the glow of morning with radiance gleam,
                        Are wealth and health and happiness to me
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free.
                    
                    
                        O, glorious nation, guardian keep
                        O'er sister republics, nor let them sleep!
                        Keep back the invasion for gold from me
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free!
                    
                    
                        Never through pretext, though great or small,
                        Let one little infant totter and fall;
                        
                        But hold up her banner, kindred to thee,
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free!
                    
                    
                        Let not the mad foe, with boisterous roar,
                        Bay the innocent lamb on America's shore;
                        Nor seek to oppress in a West country
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free!
                    
                    
                        Born in a land in whose beautiful clime
                        Grows sweet the essence of corn and wine,
                        Where the flag that we love is floating free
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free!
                    
                    
                        Come, beckon to us! We will hear thy woe.
                        Thy star in her orbit ever will glow,
                        And shine yet aloft, as a beacon at sea,
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free.
                    
                    
                        Wave, gentle flag! Float aloft on the breeze!
                        You're the emblem of peace, of joy, and ease.
                        O, beautiful flag, we rally to thee
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free!
                    
                    
                        Float o'er the billows to beautiful isles!
                        Sweet gem of the Antilles, our infant child,
                        Has a banner she loves, noble and free,
                        In the land of the brave, the home of the free.
                    
                    February 13, 1903.
                
                
                
                    AUTOGRAPHS.
                    
                        Mary, my darling,
                        Beautiful and neat,
                        Radiant and joyful,
                        You are so sweet.
                    
                    
                        Now is the time for action,
                        In the rosy light of morn,
                        Before the flying moments
                        Expose a piercing thorn.
                    
                
                
                    A DISMAL SHADOW.
                    (This poem was suggested by the appearance of a shadow, at a certain time
                        every day, on the deep-blue water of Sugar Creek at the point where the
                        Yountsville Bridge spans the creek. Here a ledge overhangs the stream, and
                        beneath is a cave, which echoes dreamy, murmuring sounds. The shadow.
                        resembles that of a skeleton, and it is supposed that at this place an
                        Indian warrior murdered a white man, who fell into the river.)
                    
                        On the bright and flowing water,
                        When the shades of night are low
                        And the wind has ceased to murmur
                        And the waters gently flow,
                        Comes the shadow on the river
                        Of a distant, wand'ring soul--
                        Comes a being that would ever
                        Make my blood run still and cold.
                    
                    
                    
                        Perhaps portent of the murder
                        Of a lone and wand'ring child;
                        Perhaps image of a brother,
                        As he wandered o'er the wild
                        
                            A DISMAL SHADOW.
                        
                        Of the lone and dreary woodland,
                        Not a friend or kindred near.
                        He has wandered into dreamland,
                        Left this dismal shadow here.
                    
                    
                        Here some ghoul has drunk his spirit,
                        And he sunk beneath the wave.
                        
                        Limp and lifeless, sunk he in it;
                        Hence this shadow of the grave.
                        How my heart beats sad and lonely,
                        As I view the specter o'er!
                        Thoughts of one in spirit only--
                        Would it wander to my door?
                    
                    
                        Darker shades are coming round me;
                        Fear comes o'er me, and I sigh:
                        "Dismal visage, do not haunt me;
                        Make your home with souls on high!"
                        In the gloom of night and darkness
                        Roam the spirits that I fear.
                        As a phantom, too, in likeness
                        Come the goblins tripping near.
                    
                    
                        Child of sunshine and reflection,
                        Cast upon the river's surf,
                        How you bring a retrospection
                        On a mortal of the earth!
                        You are picture that I fancy--
                        Of an object that has been;
                        You are child of necromancy
                        That is only faintly seen.
                    
                    
                        Awful creature, go and leave me;
                        Seek the fiend in distant wood;
                        Haunt the wild man that has harmed thee,
                        And whose arrow drank thy blood;
                        
                        Cast your presence by reflection
                        As you are before his view;
                        Bring to him a recollection
                        When he took the life of you.
                    
                    February 20, 1903.
                
                
                    DARLING MAUDY.
                    
                        Darling Maudy, sweet young flower,
                        Came and loitered at my feet.
                        All day long in sunny bower
                        The little cherub grew more sweet.
                    
                    
                        Her bright, brown eyes shone as the stars
                        That glorify the heavens above;
                        Her childish songs were gentle airs
                        In strains of joy and hope and love.
                    
                    
                        Sweet gem of earth, without alloy,
                        A life that filled my heart with mirth--
                        A father's hope, a mother's joy,
                        A perfect angel of the earth!
                    
                    
                        Life was dawning in bright array,
                        When gloom and darkness sorrow bore.
                        A life that seemed as bright as day,
                        God called above for evermore.
                    
                    
                        Dear, loving child, how sad to part
                        And break the ties of family love!
                        
                        It leaves a sadness in my heart
                        For one I dearly did approve.
                    
                    
                        'Tis Heaven's work that we would know.
                        God folds our hands in sweet repose.
                        A life once bright is burning low;
                        We vanish as a morning's rose.
                    
                    
                        But sweet that calm of heart at rest,
                        Where pain and sorrow ne'er can come.
                        The soul that's by the Father blessed
                        May rest in peace where rules the Son.
                    
                    
                        Dear, loving child, abide in peace;
                        On airy pinions wing thy way.
                        The power that gave thy soul relief
                        Is ever joy and endless day.
                    
                    February 23, 1903.
                
                
                    THE TRUTH.
                    
                        O, stick to the truth! It is noblest and best.
                        'Twill give you much pleasure and soothe you to rest;
                        'Tis more than a halo around the great sun.
                        "The truth" is my motto; let poesy run.
                        It gives to our virtue a nobler sheen;
                        It makes a great character with luster to gleam;
                        It is so consoling with Nature to blend
                        And meet the great martyrs of truth in the end.
                    
                
                
                
                    A TEACHER'S DREAM.
                    (Sometimes in the course of human events it becomes very necessary to touch
                        certain'wise guardians of the peace and welfare of the great
                        Commonwealth; and as we all know that Mount Parnassus--so beautiful and
                        enchanting--is possessed of a timber belt where nearly all these people in
                        common stay, Orpheus, from his pinnacle above, is looking on with an
                        ever-wakeful eye to discern what the gods are doing; and from the present
                        situation the muse has penned the following satirical lines from the
                        coruscating sheen of the noble rulers of pedagogy in the twentieth
                        century.)
                    
                        Who are the teachers of modern days,
                        Knowing the hobby that supers.' praise--
                        A little of Latin, a little German,
                        A little of ev'rything for learnin',
                        A little of music, with pleasing rhythm,
                        A little nonsense jargon now given?
                    
                    
                        Who are the board of magical tools,
                        Showing their wisdom, killing our schools,
                        Running the teachers crazy, insane,
                        Stuffing and cramming their overtaxed brain?
                        Where is the teacher that peacefully sings:
                        "Jack of all trades, good at such things?"
                    
                    
                        Where are the sterilizers people confirm,
                        Heating the pencils, killing the germs,
                        Sowing of leaflets, working in vain,
                        Filling the garner of reason and brain?
                        
                        Pile up your matches in bunches and heaps,
                        Stifle the children for good and keeps.
                    
                    
                        Give the poor teacher some rest in the grave;
                        Fill up a madhouse with demons to rave.
                        Show us a super, that hasn't a hobby,
                        Leading his dupes with visions of folly.
                        Sooner or later his wisdom will strand--
                        Lost to the people, like water in sand.
                    
                    
                        Where are the supers., passing with years?
                        The people are lost in a flood of their tears.
                        The teachers are sorry such angels go down.
                        Like birds on the wing, sweet echoes resound.
                        O, lost is thy wisdom, noble, wise one!
                        Thy wisdom and glory, like visions, are gone.
                    
                    
                        Things are so changing, with science and light
                        Hauling our children from morning till night,
                        Quarreling and fighting, acting the clown,
                        Dragging our darlings 'way off to the town,
                        Filling their noddles with beautiful dreams.
                        Such is the wisdom of supers.' great schemes.
                    
                    February 25, 1902.
                
                
                
                    HAVE YOU SEEN SMALLPOX?
                    
                        O, have you seen?
                        Yes; now I ween,
                        As I view those horrid places--
                        Those spots of red;
                        "Just boils," 'tis said,
                        "Sunlike, shining on their faces."
                    
                    
                        "Whose medicine box?"
                        Said Chicken Pox.
                        Noxious demons, fiery red,
                        With puslike cream--
                        These pustules mean
                        Quack physicians contagion spread.
                    
                    
                        Faces aglow
                        With pimples so,
                        Look like smallpox a little bit,
                        The does.--alack!--
                        Are getting "cracks"
                        From a populace scared in fits.
                    
                    
                        They lost a job,
                        No swelling fob.
                        A rival they could not menace.
                        No shining tin
                        Was found within;
                        So wily was Dr. Dennis.
                    
                    
                    
                        See the splotches,
                        Horrid blotches,
                        That make a brow so ghastly grin!
                        See the graces,
                        Scarred-up faces!
                        Charming fair ones should keep in.
                    
                    
                        Stupid old does.,
                        Pull up your socks;
                        Indian quacks or medicine men,
                        Think of the woes
                        Pimples disclose;
                        Tinkers of pus, where have you been?
                    
                    
                        O, ladies, say!
                        Now you must pray
                        For saving your beautiful cheeks.
                        Like a sweet rose,
                        Cupid well knows
                        How to find them when hunting sweets.
                    
                    
                        Some cure all ills
                        With choc'late pills,
                        When people are dang'rously bad,
                        Blowing their horn
                        As sure's you're born.
                        Such wisdom no magician had.
                    
                    
                    
                        Bring the cow charm,
                        Scratch on my arm,
                        Give me a welcome sedative;
                        Bring others in,
                        Puncture the skin;
                        But never astonish a native.
                    
                    
                        Who is the poet
                        Riding the goat?
                        Go to the Temple Ben-Hur;
                        There he is musing,
                        Peacefully snoozing,
                        Wrapped in his glory, good sir.
                    
                
                
                    WHO HAS STOLEN NELLIE'S HEART?
                    
                        Who, who has stolen Nellie's heart?
                        O, such an act of Cupid's dart!
                        Who sends letters every day
                        To his love when going away?
                        Doc. French.
                    
                    
                        Who rests his hand upon her head,
                        While her cheeks are flushing red?
                        Who gives her squills, and quinine, too,
                        Far better than her ma can do?
                        Doc. French.
                    
                    
                    
                        Who always takes her buggy riding,
                        Takes his medicine just beside him?
                        Who has patients every day
                        Just in the house across the way?
                        Doc. French.
                    
                    
                        Who drives around to parson's gate
                        And leaves his horse to stand and wait
                        Until he comes to help her in,
                        All smiles without and smiles within?
                        Doc. French.
                    
                    
                        Whose lips meet hers with so much grace?
                        Who lays his arm around her waist?
                        Who stays until the clock strikes two,
                        And then feels sad to bid adieu?
                        Doc. French.
                    
                    
                        Who used to love one Elva B.
                        Far better than a flea loves me?
                        Who asked her once to be his wife,
                        Assisting him in cares through life?
                        Doc. French.
                    
                    January 13, 1877--written at school.
                
                
                    WHEN TO PLANT CORN.
                    
                        Go, plow the fields and drag them down;
                        Make them level and nice to see;
                        Harrow the beautiful, moist ground;
                        Make it a lovely spot for me;
                        
                        Shell the best corn of even size.
                        Listen! You'll hear the planter's tune.
                        A hint's sufficient to the wise:
                        Plant your corn when the dogwood blooms.
                    
                    
                        Make the seed bed mellow and smooth;
                        Fill the holes as a workman should;
                        Then you're ready for the planter's groove.
                        When all is done so nice and good,
                        Listen! You'll hear the planter "click!"
                        Take no note of signs or moons;
                        Mind your business; don't seed too thick.
                        Plant your corn when the dogwood blooms.
                    
                    
                        When Nature starts her tender shoots
                        And wakes her buds in waxen form,
                        The birds all play their airy flutes,
                        And watch for bugs when it is warm.
                        Go, sing your songs, ye bards of earth;
                        Make them sweet as the ancient runes;
                        Sing them joyous with pleasing mirth.
                        Plant your corn when the dogwood blooms.
                    
                    April 24, 1902.
                
                
                    AUTOGRAPHS.
                    
                        There is a tide in the affairs of men
                        Which, if taken at its height,
                        Leads on to prosperity.
                        
                        The flowers of earth are these
                        Who, by their moral precepts,
                        Are chosen as the gleaming
                        Stars of heaven.
                    
                    As the rainbow is the great bridge of the heavens, so good literature is the
                        span that ties and binds the earth as one harmonious whole.
                    Some crave a genealogy of a long ancestral train of grandeur, but far better
                        it would be to know thyself a noble being rather than such an ancestral tree
                        of withered fruit.
                    Nations take on grandeur as they observe the laws of nature and conform to
                        the moral rules which naturally force themselves upon mankind.
                    
                        O, the pretty, lovely flowers!
                        How their breath allays the soul!
                        How they shine, like stars of heaven--
                        Emblems of that precious goal!
                    
                    Good reading and deep thinking are our cradle of liberty.
                    
                        Perchance your lot is humble;
                        Perchance you never grumble,
                        Destined to live and bear
                        As one laden with care.
                    
                    
                    
                        On this mundane sphere we live with pride.
                        O, charming scenes at eventide!
                        We love these beauties of the sun.
                        Our lives in happiness soon are run.
                        Perhaps transformed, our soul in bliss
                        Will reach a greater happiness.
                    
                    
                        Like the swelling of the ocean,
                        My yearning heart inclines,
                        Or the soul-like leaf commotion
                        Of distant soughing pines.
                    
                    
                        The one I most sincerely love
                        Is fairer than the cooing dove.
                        Her cheeks are sweeter than a rose,
                        Brown eyes sparkling where'er she goes.
                    
                
                
                    WHAT IS MIND?
                    
                        Look and see! Ah, can you tell me--
                        Tell the bard of Alamo--
                        How the mind with rapture moves me,
                        Like the seething waters flow?
                        Who can tell the mind is matter,
                        Or the soul is naught but air?
                        Who but speculate to scatter
                        Visions on a desert there?
                        
                        None but God, the wise Creator,
                        Knows what mind can ever be
                        He is Father and Director;
                        He's the power that's moving me.
                    
                
                
                    KING PHARAOH AND THE LOCUSTS
                    
                        King Pharaoh ruled on Egypt's throne.
                        The Hebrews with their burdens groaned;
                        They were denied their share of straw.
                        His hardened heart would never thaw.
                        The burning bush made Moses know
                        That he was sent to teach Pharaoh;
                        A rod was cast in snake to crawl,
                        Magicians' wands were swallowed all.
                    
                    
                        Still, God hardened Pharaoh's heart;
                        With the Israelites he wouldn't part.
                        He tightened still their toiling bands;
                        Their lives were burdened by his hands
                        But God had sworn to Abraham
                        To give his seed a better land;
                        He sent the locusts then to tease
                        The haughty Pharaoh at his ease.
                    
                    
                        There came a mighty eastern wind
                        To make the noxious king rescind,
                        And loosen of their bonds and chains,
                        And start to marching Moses' trains;
                        
                        On came the pests in divers swarms,
                        And gave the people great alarms.
                        This added to His Lordship's woe.
                        The locusts sung: "Pharaoh, Pharaoh!"
                    
                    
                        At last his mighty rule was rent;
                        He gave to Moses his consent.
                        God's mighty hosts were all at hand,
                        And starting for the promised land.
                        The king was wroth his oath to break;
                        He followed closely in their wake,
                        And to his chariot train of show
                        Were added myriad flies of woe.
                    
                    
                        The locusts sung to drown his ears;
                        His mind, diverted, soothed his fears.
                        The wand of Moses oped the sea
                        Whereby God's hosts were wont to flee.
                        The king moved on, with solemnn tread,
                        Between those walls congealed and red.
                        The sea collapsed at Moses' command;
                        Thus ended Pharaoh and his band.
                    
                    
                        Still there come at cycles of time
                        These locust years, which bring to mind
                        How God in mercy once redressed
                        The wrongs of those so sore oppressed.
                        Think deep at heart, call reason nigh;
                        There guides a Ruler from on high.
                        
                        These are portents, tokens, we see--
                        These mighty works of mystery.
                    
                    
                        Go, seek the wisdom locusts bring;
                        Reflect upon the song they sing.
                        O, years of mystery, still roll on!
                        Bring forth King Pharaoh's mystic song;
                        Spare me the evils of that time--
                        The plague of flies, the grave of brine.
                        O God of hosts, draw to me nigh!
                        Give Christ the victory ere I die.
                    
                    June 12, 1902.
                
                
                    A SOLDIER OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
                    
                        Far from home, at the Golden Gate,
                        Sick and sad, a soldier lies.
                        Who thinks of him--a soldier's fate--
                        Whether he lives or, lonely, dies ?
                    
                    
                        A transport there at anchor lies
                        For the noble boy; brave is he.
                        Who sheds a tear, or even sighs,
                        For the one who breasts the briny sea?
                    
                    
                        O God, there is some one who loves,
                        Whose sparkling eyes are full of tears,
                        Whose kind embrace a blessing proves,
                        And waits the tide of future years !
                    
                    
                    
                        She loves with all of woman's heart,
                        As deep and true as Ruth of old,
                        Clasping his hand as the vessels start.
                        Sad at heart is a soldier bold.
                    
                    
                        Their vows were made and sealed in hope,
                        Though billows come with passing years,
                        They'd travel down that distant slope,
                        Where each would share the other's cares.
                    
                    
                        Time cannot stay the wheels of fate;
                        As years roll on and cycles pass,
                        Sweet, golden moments lie in wait
                        Where anxious loved ones meet at last.
                    
                    
                        Sweet life they live in joy and peace;
                        Two loving hearts beat now as one.
                        Kind Cupid's work will never cease
                        Where hope with love has once begun.
                    
                    August 30, 1902.
                
                
                    THE ONES THAT SING
                    
                        Poets are the ones that sing
                        Songs as sweet as anything,
                        And from the fullness of the heart
                        Songs of melody ever start.
                        They go on hurtling through the air,
                        Pleasing the people ev'rywhere;
                        
                        And of their joy there is no end,
                        Always welcomed by a friend.
                        Joy or sorrow, weal or woe,
                        Onward, onward, still they go.
                    
                    August 31, 1902.
                
                
                    LAUNCHING THE BOAT.
                    (Ever since taking his thrilling trip down Sugar Creek last June, Charles
                        Harding has been fired with an ambition to build a boat of his own suitable
                        for battling with the riffles of the creek. He utilized his spare hours, and
                        the result is a beautiful little craft which rides the water like a thing of
                        life. On last Saturday afternoon Mr. Harding invited a party of his friends
                        to witness the launching and christening of the little boat at the
                        Yountsville dam. Miss Edith Bryant broke the bottle on the prow of the boat
                        and christened it "Sunday Maid;" Miss Ellen Baker, of
                        Indianapolis, read with much spirit the following lines, which James B.
                        Elmore had only a few minutes before composed for the occasion. Mr. Harding
                        is naturally much elated, and feels a very pardonable pride in being the
                        recipient of so much favor from the poet. Said he, in speaking of the
                        occasion and the poem: "I shall always cherish this autograph copy
                        and keep it among my dearest possessions. I am preparing to have it mounted
                        in a gold-embossed frame, with a plate-glass front. I treasure it not only
                        for its intrinsic merit, but as an earnest of what Jim Elmore could do had I
                        given him more time. You know, he did this in two minutes. This, of course,
                        is perfection itself; it is a gem; but if he had only had time to amplify
                        it, we would have, instead of a single pearl, a string that you could wrap
                        around your neck and tie in a double bowknot behind the yoke. Of course I
                        feel" swelled  up." You
                        know, General Wolfe declared that he would rather have been the author of
                        Gray's 'Elegy' than the captor of Quebec. Well,
                        when I heard that poem read, and saw the boat launch out upon the wave, I
                        just felt that if I owned the whole shipping combine and had Pierpont Morgan
                        for cabin boy, I would not hesitate a moment to swap jobs with a man who
                        could tickle the muse under the chin like 'our Jim.' I
                        tell you, I am just wallowing in 'the pride of
                        jollity.'" --Indianapolis News.)
                    
                        Launch out, dear boat, upon the waves!
                        A thing of life you seem to be.
                        From shore to shore you're tossed about
                        While hearts of youth are filled with glee.
                    
                    
                        Thy master guides thy helm aright,
                        With all the pride of jollity;
                        Thy course is safe by day and night.
                        With childish pride we worship thee.
                    
                    August 30, 1902.,
                
                
                    THE INDIANAPOLIS NEWS.
                    
                        The News I never meant to slight
                        When writing of the Sun.
                        It is the very sweetest fount
                        From which sweet waters run.
                    
                    
                        It is a very precious sheet,
                        And filters all the land;
                        It gathers news, then does diffuse
                        Great treasure, rich and grand.
                    
                    
                    
                        I love the page, grows sweet with age;
                        Such blessings I adore;
                        I love the News, its lines peruse
                        When seeking precious lore.
                    
                
                
                    THE GOLDEN RULE.
                    
                        Do unto others as I would
                        That they should do to me
                        Would make me perfect, true, and good,
                        As children ought to be.
                    
                    
                        This is the very truest love
                        That man can e'er attain;
                        It is the rule in vogue above,
                        Where souls immortal reign.
                    
                    
                        Who to his neighbor hurt can do,
                        By blessings good and kind?
                        Such act will soon return to you,
                        For such the world's inclined.
                    
                    
                        Do good to those who chafe and fret;
                        They know not what they do;
                        They will esteem your friendship yet,
                        And love you kindly, too.
                    
                    
                        Naught but kindness will reach above
                        And make a future home--
                        
                        But good, the golden cord of love,
                        From whence all blessings come.
                    
                    
                        Bring forth the Golden Rule of Right,
                        And let its precept stand;
                        Go, be a hero in the fight
                        For God and a better land!
                    
                    
                        So dwell the spirits far above,
                        Where saints immortal reign.
                        Such was the hope of Jesus' love,
                        That we might be the same.
                    
                    
                        Speak gently to the aged ones,
                        Whose life so soon will close.
                        Their stay is short; transition comes
                        And ends all earthly woes.
                    
                    September 30, 1902.
                
                
                    CLASSIC DEPAUW.
                    
                        Wonderful fame has classic DePauw.
                        Her wisdom and light--'twill ever draw
                        The youth of the land, bright and fair;
                        Her glory lies in her virtues rare.
                        Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
                    
                    
                        Clothed in Nature's halcyon dress,
                        The God of heaven will ever bless
                        
                        The good of the earth with strength and might,
                        And teach the perfect, the true, and right.
                        Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
                    
                    
                        DePauw will stand till the trumpet call.
                        Her wondrous motto is: "Truth for all."
                        Her glory extends beyond the sight
                        Where 'tis ever day and always light.
                        Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
                    
                    
                        She teaches the lad and lass the same,
                        Giving her laurels and a name;
                        She calls the maiden unto the fold
                        With heart as pure as shining gold.
                        Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
                    
                    
                        A star in the east the shepherds saw.
                        Still 'tis gleaming from classic DePauw;
                        So let it shine with glorious light,
                        Guiding of mortals in ways of right.
                        Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
                    
                    
                        She gives a polish unto the soul;
                        She leads the mortal toward the goal,
                        And dresses the mind without alloy--
                        Forever and ever a perfect joy.
                        Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
                    
                    
                    
                        As a spring beneath the surface starts,
                        This blessing was born in Christian hearts;
                        Forever and ever 'twill run away
                        Toward the great, eventful day.
                        Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!
                    
                    October 25, 1902.
                
                
                    PROFESSOR COOMBS IN LOVE.
                    
                        Prof. Coombs was young and gay, you know,
                        As any lad in Alamo.
                        A sweet young lass to school did come,
                        And Prof.'s old heart just mellowed some.
                    
                    
                        His heart was warm with passion pure.
                        He for his love did book procure,
                        And on its pages sweet did write:
                        "I love you, darling, with heart so light."
                    
                    
                        Then says she: "John, I love you, too;
                        I want to be a-wooing you."
                        He, with the wit of jolly clown,
                        Said: "What will we do with Mr. Brown?"
                    
                    
                        "Ship him away to some far land,
                        And give to me your loving hand."
                        This is the way that lovers trend,
                        But Prof. "lost out" quite near the end.
                    
                    January 13, 1877--written at school.
                
                
                
                    LITTLE YELLOW BREAST.
                    
                        Happy little yellow breast,
                        Sweet harbinger of spring,
                        You come again in speckled dress;
                        Good tidings you do bring.
                        Sweet the news of warmer days
                        By messenger so true.
                        In grassy fields come cheering lays:
                        "Whee-oo, whee-oo!"
                    
                    
                        Upon a little mound of grass
                        Thy song is yearly started.
                        Sing out the old year; let it pass;
                        Bring in the cheery-hearted.
                        Yet days will come of chilly blast,
                        But ever thy song is true;
                        And ere another morn is passed--
                        "Whee-oo, whee-oo!"
                    
                    
                        And when the vernal days are come--
                        Refulgent, warm, and cheering--
                        Thy little nest is wove and spun.
                        The brooding time is nearing;
                        Then comes thy mate and sings aloud,
                        As birds of feather do.
                        In coat of mail he's singing proud:
                        "Whee-oo, whee-oo!"
                    
                    
                    
                        His golden breast, with heart of jet,
                        Is like a burnished shield;
                        His mission, too, is--don't forget!--
                        To guard the brooding field;
                        His song of cheer to partner dear
                        That sits above her young
                        Announces fear, should it appear,
                        By accent of his song:
                        "Whee-oo, whee-oo!"
                    
                    
                        I love thy song each passing day;
                        A balm it seems to me;
                        I love thy peaceful, charming lay,
                        Wherever I may be.
                        Sing for the world; sing to thy nest
                        That bears a minstrel crew;
                        'Sing, happy bird, with peaceful breast;
                        Thy brood is life with you.
                        "Whee-oo, whee-oo!"
                    
                    March 7, 1903.
                
                
                    WHEN THE DINNER BELL RINGS.
                    
                        How sweet are the days of summer,
                        When a balm fills earth and sky,
                        And the rivulets leap and murmur,
                        And a smile is in the eye!
                        
                        Then the birds just sing and chatter,
                        And my heart goes "pitter-patter!"
                        When the dinner bell rings.
                    
                    
                        Then there is no time to waste;
                        All my thoughts with viands blend;
                        And the horses, too, make haste,
                        As they near the homeward end.
                        O, the joyful news of dinner
                        To a thirsty, hungry sinner
                        When the dinner bell rings!
                    
                    
                        Horses were intent on starting,
                        And they gave a longing neigh;
                        Prancing they were for departing,
                        Anxious creatures, wanting hay.
                        They oft had heard such sounds of yore;
                        Well they knew the good things in store
                        When the dinner bell rings.
                    
                    
                        Joyful scenes of farm and garden;
                        Sweet the dreams of weary laden;
                        Rich and green the earth is sodden;
                        Sweet the voice of happy maiden.
                        So let the world go as it will;
                        With hunger does my faint heart thrill
                        When the dinner bell rings.
                    
                    
                        Then I mounted on horse astride;
                        I went singing on the way;
                        
                        Then I perched as women ride,
                        For there's warmth in sunny May.
                        Sweet the crab tree's savory bloom,
                        But still sweeter is the tune
                        When the dinner bell rings.
                    
                    
                        Oft my heart yearned for its pealing,
                        When I wrought from early morn;
                        Oft I thought my body reeling,
                        As I passed the leafy corn.
                        How I longed to hear the sounding
                        And the melody rebounding
                        When the dinner bell rings!
                    
                    
                        O, what a doleful sound was made
                        When mamma beat the tin pan!
                        But my burning thirst is stayed
                        When I was a little man.
                        Long it antedates the time
                        Of the sweet, sonorous chime
                        When the dinner bell rings.
                    
                    March 13, 1903.
                
                
                    THE OLD COTTAGE HOME.
                    
                        Amidst the shady evergreens,
                        Where balmy breezes blow,
                        I long to be a child again,
                        Play on the grass below.
                        
                        There stood upon the little hill
                        A cottage turning gray;
                        'Twas there my mother's lovely voice
                        Then soothed my cares away.
                    
                    
                        THE OLD COTTAGE HOME
                        (The birthplace of James Buchanan Elmore).
                    
                    
                        She guarded all my childish sports
                        Amidst the blooming flowers;
                        Her heart would beat with quicker strains
                        Through many happy hours.
                        
                        The sun shone bright through leafy trees
                        And cast a silver sheen.
                        Such then was life, with joyful smiles;
                        The earth was clothed in green.
                    
                    
                        There childhood grew to maidenhood,
                        As flowerets grow and bloom;
                        And as they grew and cast their leaves,
                        There came a time of gloom.
                        The old house still stands on the hill;
                        The days are just as warm.
                        My heart beats low in sadder strains.
                        O, where's my mother's form?
                    
                    
                        The trees and flowers are just the same--
                        O, no; not half so sweet!
                        That cannot be with man as youth.
                        O, time, thou wheel of fate!
                        My heart is full of pleasant thoughts--
                        Of youth's bright, happy time,
                        When quickened impulse filled the heart
                        And life was joy sublime.
                    
                    
                        O, birthplace, thou wilt never fade--
                        A spot so dear to me!
                        My mind is full of thy sweet charms,
                        Dear scroll of memory.
                        
                        My mother, too, is but a dream;
                        And still her sunny smiles
                        Speak unto me of joy and bliss
                        From those enchanted isles.
                    
                    
                        And father, sisters, brothers gone--
                        Ah, me; I am alone!
                        Dear home, thy joyful scenes of love
                        Are now forever gone;
                        And when the sun is sinking low
                        Beneath the western sky,
                        Then let me there abide in peace
                        With Him who rules on high.
                    
                    March 22, 1903.
                
                
                    THE NEW YORK SUN.
                    
                        The Sun upon the world doth shine;
                        It lubricates, like sparkling wine,
                        And casts its light o'er sheens of gold;
                        It draws the mind, like rubies old;
                        It is the essence of joy and light,
                        Filling the heart with things of right;
                        It is a lamp unto the soul,
                        And gleams with treasure to the goal.
                        Weird and strange, it finds me late,
                        Peering still through the Golden Gate.
                        Gleaming and sparkling from its height,
                        Its streams of beauty adorn the night,
                        
                        And leave to earth a treasure fine.
                        I love to drink its precious wine.
                        It passes on still o'er the sea,
                        And yet its treasure is left with me.
                        Long live thy light, O shining orb!
                        Thy work is for a thirsting horde.
                    
                
                
                    A LITTLE STAR.
                    
                        In the darkest night
                        We see rays of light,
                        Of twinkling worlds shining bright,
                        Far, far beyond
                    
                    
                        Gleaming in the sky--
                        To the thoughtful eye
                        A thing of wonder; by and by
                        We'll reach their bound.
                    
                    
                        Who knows what thou art?
                        Like an infant's heart,
                        Thou mayest some departed life start
                        In mystery,
                    
                    
                        As a living soul
                        That has reached the goal,
                        Where for ages and ages roll
                        Eternity.
                    
                    
                    
                        Thou wilt ever shine
                        In the realm of time,
                        A light so radiant, yet sublime--
                        A gem of night.
                    
                    
                        O, glorious star!
                        In thy flight afar
                        Thou art guided, for not a bar
                        Obstructs thy light.
                    
                    
                        Thy bright portent seems
                        From a world of dreams
                        Extant from the heavenly streams
                        Of life above.
                    
                    
                        O, enchanting glow,
                        Would thou let us know
                        Who keeps thee coruscating so?
                        Thy light we love.
                    
                    
                        O, infinite One,
                        Whence all blessings sprung,
                        Who gave to us this flowing tongue
                        Of brilliancy!
                    
                    
                        Thy glorious light
                        Adorns both day and night.
                        Through mist and gloom thou guid'st aright
                        Posterity.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE MEETING OF THE SCRIBES.
                    (Written for a reunion of the Crawfordsville Journal scribes,
                        at which a bountiful dinner was given.)
                    
                        We meet to-day, as writers should,
                        Enhancing the cause of public good;
                        So let our meeting long endure,
                        Promoting the cause of literature.
                    
                    
                        We feast to-day in social mood--
                        Scribes from hill and vale and wood;
                        So let us write, that those who see
                        May by our life the better be.
                    
                    
                        A stream of thought flows to the press
                        Soon to return in brilliant dress;
                        Far up the mount, by crystal pool--
                        There let us build a modern school,
                    
                    
                        Where scribes may meet in social ties,
                        Commune as men, and be more wise;
                        By interchange of word and thought,
                        Great change in public weal is wrought.
                    
                    
                        The press now feeds the thirsty mind;
                        Let its savor be of the kind
                        That adds to Wisdom her share of strength
                        And satisfies the soul at length.
                    
                    
                    
                        Great beauty lies in sheet of truth,
                        From whence must feed the fairest youth;
                        So let the stream be pure and clear,
                        Tossing and moving ev'rywhere.
                    
                    
                        This civic fount is fed by you
                        With gems of pearl that shine anew;
                        As Time revolves his wheel of fate,
                        Let future ages feel your weight.
                    
                    
                        We now recall such things of yore
                        As once the Journal's columns bore;
                        Sweet gems they are to you and me,
                        Passed scroll of youthful memory.
                    
                    
                        Note the flowers that live and die,
                        Drawing their splendor from on high.
                        Lay by a pearl immersed in dew;
                        The artist's hand--let it be you.
                    
                    
                        Life is as a blooming flower:
                        A jar, a blast, and all is o'er,
                        Passing beyond to a living stream,
                        Leaving its wake a golden sheen.
                    
                    
                        Let this meeting of scribes to-day
                        Leave in its path such grand array
                        As meteors, passing in their flight,
                        Leave in the heavens after night.
                    
                
                
                
                    ANCIENT HERALDS OF SPRING.
                    
                        Ancient heralds of the spring,
                        Sweet of voice and fleet of wing,
                        You have come. You give me ease
                        With your sweet songs and melodies.
                    
                    
                        How little bunny leaps and plays
                        And scales the trees in antic ways
                        With the coming of the flowers
                        In sunny dells and leafy bowers!
                    
                    
                        See him leaping from tree to tree!
                        Sweet is droning the honeybee;
                        And with these sounds there mingles, too,
                        A little warbler in dress of blue.
                    
                    
                        Piping, the redhead from the tree
                        Sends forth his drumming melody,
                        Rattling his ancient forest tunes
                        With all the sweetness of the runes.
                    
                    
                        The redbird, too, then takes a hand;
                        Sings to the world. And, bursting bands
                        Of all the little buds that sleep
                        In waxen cradles of the deep--
                    
                    
                        Wake up, dear ones! Come forth, come forth!
                        Sleep no longer, but pierce the earth;
                        Doff your garments and live again.
                        Your likeness is of mortal men,
                    
                    
                    
                        Come, bloom for me! I cannot rest;
                        There is a feeling within my breast
                        That melts my heart and blends with tears,
                        As oft I think of future years.
                    
                    
                        The little ant in musty cell
                        Threw off his trance, came forth to tell
                        How he could live in house so rude
                        And never take a bit of food.
                    
                    
                        The Sun, with all his fervent heat,
                        Has warmed the bulbs and things that creep;
                        He gives to earth rich blessings still,
                        Which tune the glade and glen and hill.
                    
                    
                        The kildee proudly does appear;
                        His laughing song says, "Spring is near;"
                        And from his perch upon the barn
                        The pewee sounds his piping horn.
                    
                    
                        Sing on, dear ones, and do not cease!
                        Cheer up, sad heart, and banish grief !
                        Sing all the songs my mother sung
                        When all was joy and I was young.
                    
                    
                        Let ev'ry day be sunny spring.
                        Tune your voices; let anthems ring.
                        Sing of the saints; sing at my door;
                        Sing, happy ones, for evermore!
                    
                    January 21, 1901.
                
                
                
                    THE BANQUET.
                    (Written for a banquet given by the Wabash College boys.)
                    
                        When the muses come and haunt me,
                        Then I just sit down and write;
                        So I hope to soon be with you,
                        With the pleasures of the night.
                    
                    
                        And to join in sweet relations,
                        Such as only brothers bear--
                        That is now the hope I cherish,
                        Where the college breeze is rare.
                    
                    
                        So I come in hope to meet you
                        With the cadence of my song;
                        We will know each other better
                        In the days that are to come.
                    
                    October 11, 1903.
                
                
                    PROLOGUE TO "A LOVER IN CUBA."
                    (Written for the play.)
                    
                        I come to-night to amuse you and refrain
                        From taking any part in this mighty train
                        Of noble seniors who can make you laugh
                        As you drink from their cups filled with chaff.
                        But Myrtle is a rosebud full in bloom,
                        Such as are now within this storied room.
                        
                        She courted, she wooed, and bravely won
                        A hero that stood the hail of Spanish gun.
                        She lives to-day, the queen of one bright home.
                        Long let her live! Let other heroes like him come,
                        Believing in union of heart and hand forever,
                        Nor seek the court or law that nowadays sever.
                        So may you live and love and sweetly woo
                        With bond of love that is forever true.
                        And now I give to you this novel play;
                        Take it, enjoy it, and go your way.
                    
                
                
                    POOR JOHN LEROY.
                    
                        Here is the tomb of John Leroy.
                        He was a most mischievous boy;
                        But, living longer than he should,
                        He won the praise of being good.
                        He was a most peculiar man.
                        The devil sought him with his clan;
                        But when it came that he should die,
                        The angels took him to the sky.
                    
                    January 4, 1904.
                
                
                    WHITHER ARE WE DRIFTING?
                    
                        Whither are we drifting,
                        Down the sands of time,
                        Through the golden sunshine,
                        In a world sublime?
                    
                    
                    
                        On the moving current,
                        Gliding with the stream,
                        Tossing with the wavelets--
                        Life is but a dream.
                    
                    
                        Passing by the driftwood,
                        Sailing with the flow,
                        Whither are we drifting?
                        Does a mortal know?
                    
                    
                        Swift the rolling breakers
                        Meet the scanning eye;
                        Many lovely creatures
                        Swiftly pass you by.
                    
                    
                        Yonder is a sand bar!
                        Turn your boat aside;
                        Heed the many dangers,
                        Drifting with the tide.
                    
                    
                        See! The little whirlpool
                        Turns your boat around.
                        Breast the moving current,
                        Lest you run aground.
                    
                    
                        Passing by a brother
                        Stranded in the start,
                        Throw to him the life line;
                        Share with him a part.
                    
                    
                    
                        Tide him o'er the rapids
                        Down the rugged stream,
                        Safely through all danger.
                        Bright the waters gleam.
                    
                    
                        Heed the rolling surface
                        In the blinding mist;
                        Watch the helm the closer,
                        Passing with the drift.
                    
                    
                        Hearken not a sailor
                        Who has faced about,
                        But heave upon the oars;
                        Let the captain shout.
                    
                    
                        Hampered by the thousands
                        Lying on the way,
                        Striving with the current,
                        You will win the day.
                    
                    
                        Gleaming in the distance
                        Lies the golden sea.
                        Breast the heaving billows;
                        Anchored safe are we.
                    
                    January 6, 1904.
                
                
                    L'ENVOI.
                    
                        We meet in loving-kindness
                        As a brother and a friend.
                        Let the future still remind us
                        Of rich blessings in the end.
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                ADVERTISEMENTS.
                "Love Among the Mistletoe and Poems" is a book giving a
                    beautiful romance and a great many poems of nature, with quite a number of
                    sentimental ones. The book is beautifully illustrated. It is a gem. Price, $1.
                    Sold by the author, Alamo, Ind.
                "A Lover in Cuba. and Poems" is a book giving a beautiful
                    romance of the Spanish-American War, which appeals to the heart, as ever love
                    can. It also contains many beautiful poems, and is well illustrated. Price, $1.
                    Sold by the author, Alamo, Ind.
                "Twenty-five Years in Jackville," a romance in the days of the
                    "Golden Circle," is a book treating of a romance in those
                    primeval days, with the signs and passwords of the "Golden
                    Circle" and the many things which were characteristic of those times,
                    as the old muster days, the happenings about the illicit distilleries, and the
                    old-fashioned barbecues. The book also contains numerous poems, and is
                    illustrated. Price, $1. Sold by the author, Alamo, Ind.
            
        
    
