
   ----CITATION---- 
        Bingham, Kate Boyles, 1876-. The Hoosier Volunteer: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3894
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        THE HOOSIER VOLUNTEER
      
      
      
        
          
            On the firing line
            [Page 330]
          
        
        
      
      
      
        
          The Hoosier Volunteer
        
         By Kate and Virgil D. BoylesAuthors of
          "The Homesteaders," "Langford of the Three Bars," and
          "The Spirit Trail" 
        
          Illustrated by Troy and Margaret West Kinney
        
        
        
          CHICAGO
          A. C. McCLURG & CO.
          1914
        
      
      
      
        Copyright  A. C. McCLURG & CO. 1914 
        Published March, 1914
        
          Copyrighted in Great Britain
        
        W. F. Hall Printing Co., Chicago
      
      
      
        CONTENTS
        
          CHAPTER PAGE
          I "PORE ZACK"1
            
          
          II "SAMMY GOODMAN, WILL YOU LEAD THE WAY?"11
            
          
          III CROOKED CREEK BOTTOM
            28
            
          
          IV FOR THE HONOR OF "PAP" 45
            
          
          V TREEING A COON
            67
            
          VI ZACK BEGINS SEEING THE
              WORLD
            77
            
          
          VII THE GHOST
            90
            
          VIII THE BROKEN-DISH QUILT
            111
            
          
          IX THE ARMY OF THE SOUTHWEST
            120
            
          
          X AN EARNEST CHAMPION
            136
            
          
          XI THE GUERRILLAS OUT-WITTED
            152
            
          
          XII A NIGHT ADVENTURE
            168
            
          
          XIII SAMMY ACQUIRES JOHN
            189
            
          
          XIV THE FIRST DAY
            213
            
          
          XV A GREAT VICTORY
            237
            
          
          XVI DELIRIUM
            255
            
          
          XVII HOME ON LEAVE OF ABSENCE
            280
            
          
          XVIII THE REAPPEARNANCE OF THE GHOST
            298
            
          
          XIX AN INTERLUDE
            317
            
          
          XX "WHERE THE SWEET MAGNOLIA BLOSSOMS GREW AS WHITE AS SNOW" 328
            
          
          XXI "FIRST KETCH YOUR RABBIT" 344
            
          
          XXII SAMMY'S LAST SKIRMISH
            363
            
          
          XXIII THE OLD STUMP
            378
            
          
        
      
      
      
        ILLUSTRATIONS
        
          
            PAGE
          
          On the firing line
              Frontispiece
            
            
          
          A most uncanny, ghostly figure, draped all in white108
            
          
          Sammy looked on in helpless rage180
          
          June days278
            
          
        
      
    
    
      
      
        The Hoosier Volunteer
        
          CHAPTER I
          "PORE ZACK"
          THERE was plainly a lure to Sammy in the winey air of the September
            morning. He sauntered. His friends had always ascribed to him a thirst for knowledge of
            the lore of books surpassing, to a remarkable degree, the lesser thirsts of his
            contemporaries and satellites of the neighborhood. The word satellites is used
            advisedly, for even in that early day of his history, Sammy Goodman was a leader;
            seldom, consciously, a follower. The tattered and dog-eared copy of Webster's
              Elementary Spelling Book tucked under his arm gave convincing
            evidence that he was on his way to the "hewed log" hall of learning,
            where "free school" was called for the first time that morning after
            the long, languorous, Indiana summer vacation. As he wriggled his toes through the warm
            yellow dust of the woods road, he was not thinking of the school at all, except with an
            occasional feeling of repugnance to the thought of confinement on such a day as
            this.
          
           There had been early frosts, and the arched roadway stretched before him a vista of
            color rampant. The maples were gorgeous in crimson and gold. The lordly beeches towered
            upward, still green and commanding. Glimpses of the bright scarlet of sumach bushes
            twinkled through the lower openings. Here and there was the ghostly gleam of the
            sycamore's mottled bark. Dense foliage overhead and tangled undergrowth beneath
            kept out all but the faintest occasional flicker of real morning sunshine, but the
            wealth of yellow and gold and crimson and green, of frost-kissed tree and bush and vine
            made the road of the primeval forest to glow with a dim, soft, warm, sweet-smelling
            light that was more attractive than sun to the woods-born.
          Frost touches the world gently in southern Indiana; so gently that the blush of the
            first kiss lingers long and is loath to go, and glows deeper and deeper in anticipation
            of the next caress and the next and the next and yet another one--all light, gentle,
            loving, never harsh or impatient or joy-killing as are northern frosts--so that while
            the fall is always sad because it is the beginning of the end, sometimes, in singlarly
            graced places of the world, the end is so radiant, so peaceful, lingering so happily on
            in a calm content in the decrees of the master magician, Nature, that the final slipping
            away comes withoutshock or pain or regret. And these days
            when a sturdy, barefoot boy in homespun trudged along the woods road to "free
            school" were only the first days of the end. There was no hurry. Let all the
            world wait while he and Nature played awhile on the road. Sammy didn't express
            himself thus, his thought did not even consciously shape itself thus, but it might have
            been what he meant when he said, as he shied a butternut at a bright-eyed squirrel
            peering around the trunk of a huge oak:
          " Wish't I didn't have nothin' to do but gather a
            few nuts and pack 'em down a hole in a tree!"
          By which remark, it may be seen that Sammy Goodman, now thirteen years of age, already
            considered himself weighed down by responsibilities and fettered by the mere humdrum of
            existence. The peculiarly pungent odor of dog fennel was in his nostrils. It augmented
            the strange dreaminess of his mood. A copperhead crossed his path. It was with effort
            that brought himself to kill it; and yet he had been known to hunt for hours for these
            poisonous creatures and to put out the light of their inheritance-cursed existence with
            the keenest delight. But today, why should any living thing be hurried to its death?
            Bumblebees, butterflies, pinchbugs, tree toads, katydids, the birds, all the short-lived
            and hibernating and migratory creatures of the woodswere
            dreamily rounding out their little day before the time to go. Why not let even snakes go
            in peace? But the belly-crawling were the natural prey of boys, therefore Sammy soon
            dismissed the thought of the ethics of the case with a hitch of his homespun trousers as
            he turned into Zachariah Posey's clearing.
          He and Zack were cronies. It was because of Zaek that he had forsaken the shorter way
            to pursue this winding road through the woods--Zack and that haunting desire of his own
            not to hurry this morning. His blue eyes brightened anticipatively under his old felt
            hat. The pioneer boys had little leisure for recreation. It had been many days since he
            and Zack had been able to snatch a few hour from the harvest for a play time, and even
            these few days ahead of them must be made the most of--to and from school and at
            recess--for soon both would be taken away for the late thrashing, and then would come
            the "corn-shuckin." It would be winter in earnest before they could
            meet at the schoolhouse again, after these introductory days.
          He emitted a shrill whistle. There was no response from the dreary looking log cabin
            with its cluttered dooryard. Zack's house was builded of unhewn logs only. His
            "pap" and "mam" were just plain
            "Hoosier," and had no such aristocratic notions as had the
            Goodmans.
          
          "Now what's come over Zack?" grumbled Sammy to himself, in
            surprise. "'Tain't likely he's already gone--he knew
            I'd be around this morning."
          He made his way to the rear door and pushed it open unceremoniously, scattering a few
            hungry looking hens from the stoop as he did so. A slatternly dressed woman with untidy
            hair glanced up from the batter she was mixing in a pan but did not remove her
            hands.
          "Oh, it's you, Sammy, is it?" she said, in a thin,
            high-pitched voice with a slight nasal twang in the tones. "I 'lowed
            you'd be stoppin' round for Zack. 'Pears like Zack's
            sick. He hain't et no breakfast yit this mornin'. How's yer
            folks?"
          "Yep, it's me, Mis' Posey," replied Sammy.
            "Everybody's well to our house. What's the matter with
            Zack?"
          This friendly interest elicited a deep groan from Zack himself, who sat humped up on a
            splint-bottomed chair drawn up to the kitchen table, his head in his hands. He was about
            Sammy's age and size, only chunkier, and under the clothless table, one could
            see his unwashed bare legs propped against the rung of a chair. There was little
            distinction in dress in that day and neighborhood even between the "hewed
            log" and the "just log" cabiners; and yet somehow the clothes of the two boys looked altogether different. It was not
            in the color of homespuns, for while Sammy's were stained blue with indigo and
            Zack's brown with walnut bark, that of itself was not a distinction but merely
            the result of a rotation. It was very likely that the next time yarn was spun, woven
            into cloth, dyed, and fashioned into clothing, all by his mother's own hands,
            at her own looms, Sammy would take his turn at wearing the brown, while perhaps Zack
            would be strutting around in new blues--perhaps, but not probably, because he usually
            had to make one suit last out two suits of Sammy's no matter how worn or dingy
            it became. Zack's father, not being so provident as Mr. Goodman, had
            'scarcely enough sheep to go round and cover the nakedness of the numerous
            little tow-headed "Hoosiers" runing wild around his clearing; while
            his mother, being neither so thrifty nor so resourceful nor so
            self-respecting--"proud," she herself designted it--as Mrs. Goodman,
            never seemed able to find the time to spin or weave except when driven to it by actual
            necessity. Therein lay the distinction. Sammy's galluses were neatly mended
            while Zack's were in a weird state bordering upon imminent dissolution.
            Sammy's shirt was clean and whole which was much more than could be said of
            Zack's. Moreover, Sammy's legs, while every bit as brown asZack's, had been washed before going to bed the night
            before and again before starting to school this morning. It was a reckless expenditure
            of water and energy, but then Mrs. Goodman had ideas.
          Mrs. Posey looked at her son anxiously as he continued his dismal groans. His shock of
            uncombed, straw-colored hair was all that could be seen of his buried head.
          "'Pears like he be getting worse," she said. "Do it
            hurt bad, Zackie? Where do it hurt?"
          "Ain't you goin' to school?" demanded Sammy, in
            unfeigned amazement, the real significance of Zack's sudden illness dawning
            upon him for the first time.
          Zack only groaned and shook his head.
          " He can't. He's sick," Mrs. Posey answered for
            him, commiseratingly. "It's too bad. He sets such store by the school.
            Pore Zack. He do hate to miss."
          Sammy stared at his friend suspiciously but he did not voice his suspicions aloud,
            unless his sympathetic, "He does n't look sick," was
            double-edged. "Is it colic?" he asked, as Zack groaned more
            lugubriously than ever at even this hint of unbelief. "Reckon you've
            been eatin' green paw paws or persimmons. Well, I'll have to be
            goin'," he continued, turning toward the door.
          
          "You tell teacher over yander to the school that Zack he's
            sick," admonished Mrs. Posey, lifting her dough to the molding board.
            "I'm jist makin' him up some fresh biscuit for to tempt his
            appetite. His pap and the young uns have et long ago. I do n't know what ails
            him. Is it your stummick, Zackie?"
          "I--I--reckon so," gasped the boy, "and fever and aguey,
            I'm a-feared--'less it's typhus or 'flammatory
            rheumatism or pneumony fever--I don't know which it is. Oh, I do feel so
            bad!"
          "Maybe you'll feel better after you've et,"
            consoled his mother, hastening to roll out the dough and to take down an immense biscuit
            cutter.
          "I'm too sick to eat hearty," said Zack, "so you
            need n't make more 'n five. I do n't feel ekal to more
            'n five, mam, honest, I don't. I'm too sick to eat
            hearty."
          Mrs. Posey glanced quickly at Sammy, but Sammy's face was as sober as that of
            a judge, albeit there was a merry little twinkle in his eyes that the woman failed to
            see. It was partly this power of keeping his thoughts to himself and "fitting
            in" to any occasion that made Sammy Goodman so often seem much older than he
            really was.
          "Pore Zack--he always eats more when he's
            sick," explained his mother, excusingly. As did many others of the simple folk
            about, Mrs. Posey considered Sammy a very wise and learned personage and she thought it
            just possible that he might think Zack was "playing 'possum"
            and she did not want him to think what was so obviously untrue.
          "Goin' tomorrow?" was Sammy's only comment.
          "I reckon he'll be all right tomorrer," the mother hastened
            to spare her son the inconvenience of answering, "if I give him a right smart
            o' keerin' fer today. You step round fer him tomorrer and
            see."
          "I don't know," said Sammy. "It's a good
            piece out of the way." He slammed the door and was gone.
          As he trudged down the lonely road, he could not make up his mind whether he was the
            more provoked with Zack for his cowardly shirking or with himself for not doing
            likewise. In his heart, he knew that it was only a question of a few days before he
            would hold school a Paradise as compared with thrashing wheat or shucking corn; besides,
            he knew that when he once opened his book in the old puncheon-floored schoolhouse the
            overwhelming desire to know--just to know things--would supersede all else and he would
            be content with the new environment; but today,his bare
            feet lingered still, although he realized that he must be already late. He did not want
            to do anything today but just to be out of doors and to play like the birds and the
            squirrels and all the woodsy things and--Zack. But with a vague realization that Zacks
            shirking school that morning was only another manifestation of the generally conceded
            shiftlessness of Zack's family, and with a sense of his own responsibilities
            upon him because of his superior advantages, Sammy suddenly pulled his hat down. over
            his eyes and scudded toward the schoolhouse.
          In after years, he often thought, a little smilingly, a little sadly, of his strange
            reluctance to hurry on that long ago morning of early frost, and of that intense,
            unaccountable desire to play by the wayside which had kept his usually eager footsteps
            lagging--just lagging along. For the time came all too soon when there was no more play
            for Sammy Goodman--neither for him nor for any of the young manhood of his
            generation.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER II
          "SAMMY GOODMAN, WILL YOU LEAD THE WAY?"
          THERE follwed a week of droning study aloud, wherein the dullest
            scholars made much the most noise, which proved Sammy's wisdom in wishing to
            choose his own benchmates; a week of heroic wrestling with the American
              Preceptor and with Webster's Elemnentary Spelling
            Book, ending with an exciting catchword spelling-down contest on Friday afternoon,
            wherein Captain Zechariah Posey, having miraculously escaped fever and ague, typhoid
            fever, inflammatory rheumatism, and pneumonia, went down to sure defeat because he had
            not been able to withstand the "come hither" in Mary Ann
            Hamilton's bashful brown eyes. The whole shool had gasped in sheer unbelieving
            astonishment when the first choice had been made--that Zechariah Posey of all people
            should fail, when the lot fell to him, triumphantly to summon Sammy Goodman to his aid,
            Sammy Goodman, the best speller in the entire county, besides being his sworn comrade of
            long standing, just because he wanted a certain girl to "set next
            him," was incredible. Sammy himself could scarcely believe the evidence of his own sense of hearing, but he managed to appear
            supremely indifferent to the surprise sprung upon him, and to gaze nonchalantly out of
            the window up in the front wall, the only window, by the way, which the room contained.
            He did not have to gaze long. If Zack had cherished a faint hope that Sammy might be
            reserved for his second choice, he was quickly disillusioned.
          "Sammy Goodman" came in such quick, explosive tones from the rival
            captain's lips that it was very plain to be seen he could hardly believe his
            good fortune, and that he was afraid the chance might slip away from him, even yet, if
            he did not clinch it instantaneously.
          Not the least surprising feature of the whole affair was the fact that it was Sammy
            Goodman, himself, who was supposed to hold a peremptory claim upon the affections of
            little Mary Ann Hamilton; so that it was rather presumptuous, to say the least, on the
            part of Zack Posey deliberately, to call her to "set next" in
            preference to the best speller in the county and the more than half-suspected knight in
            homespun of this same brown-eyed Mary Ann. But this nine days' wonder was
            finally reasoned out by the majority of the school to have occurred because of
            Zack's well-known loyalty to and admiration of his boy hero--Sammy Goodman. So
            unwaveringly had he formed himself upon his friend since
            the beginning of time that it was supposed by his mates that he could not even be
            individual in affairs of the heart. Perhaps they were right. Anyway, he chose Mary Ann
            and defeat without wincing and only loved Sammy the more for his magnanimity when he
            said, on the way home from school, chewing a sassafras twig meditatively the while:
          "I hated to beat you and Mary Ann, Zack, but you know a fellow has to uphold
            his reputation--if he can. I could spell daguerreotype and I'd a felt like a
            sneak and a liar to have said I couldn't. I think it's a sort of
            responsibility to do the best one can. I would n't have cared if it had been
            anybody but you."
          "Why, I knew you'd do it, Sammy," said Zack, shuffling his
            calloused toes through the warm dust of the road. "I 'lowed when I
            chose Mary Ann I'd be beat all hollow, but I jist thought she looked as if
            she'd feel right peart to be chosen first."
          "I--think she did, Zack," said Sammy, quietly, which further proof of
            magnanimity so added to Zachariah's boyish adoration that he could only stare
            silently at his shuffling feet and so forgot entirely to see if the pawpaws were ripe on
            a certain bush that grew some distance off the road. He had known just where to leave
            the trail and plunge through the crawling undergrowth of
            the roadside. It was full early but that was an early tree. By the time he thought of
            it, however, they had long passed the spot, so the little excursion was left for another
            day.
          And so Sunday came and with it Sammy's glorious chance to get even, though, to
            his credit be it said, that was not his intention at all. He was not afraid of Zachariah
            Posey.
          In the old days, Sundays had not been happy days for Sammy Goodman. Even now, in
            retrospect, they brought forth shuddering sensations of terror lived through but not
            forgotten. Hell-fire was still preached and awful warnings of doom were hurled from
            every meeting house where self-constituted, itinerant preachers, who believed they had
            heard a call, expounded, conscientiously or otherwise, as the case might be, a
            grievously misunderstood Christian code; but Sammy, though only thirteen, found himself
            gradually becoming more amused than awe-stricken as he listened to the terrible echoes
            of that dread, paralyzing word picture which had issued from Kentucky and spread so
            rapidly over a trembling world: "--hair-hung and breeze-shaken over the mouth
            of hell" His father was his hero, and though never in all his young life had he
            heard that kindly, genial, just man utter one disparaging remark concerning these preachers of unthinkable doom, or voice one doubt of the
            doctrine of literal brimstone whose hot and unwholesome breath had been breathed into
            the beautiful, sweet-aired, ancient-wooded, virginal valley of the Ohio, yet Sammy knew,
            in his own heart, that his father cherished other ideals of a Christ who came to redeem
            the world, not to condemn it. It was because of his faith in his father, and his growing
            belief that God would never hold that good man "hair-hung and breeze-shaken
            over the mouth of hell" for the very mistakes which his father so freely
            forgave him every day of his life, that Sammy, these later days, had begun to emerge
            from the awful thralldom of his childhood's fears and to look the blessed
            sunshine of the world full in the face. But he winced, even yet, remembering the
            sufferings of those baby days when he first began to realize, with a sickening of the
            heart, the dire meaning of that oft repeated phrase--the Age of Accountability. That age
            was seven years. He should never forget so long as he lived the haunting horror that
            brooded over his days and nights--thinking--thinking--how very soon he would be
            seven--and counting the years--the months--the very days before that awful birthday. For
            on that day, his innocence would fall from him and he would henceforth be held
            accountable to his God for his deeds. When the time finally
            came, a new thought was given him which bred unavailing regret and clouded his sky for
            many and many a day. They were hoeing corn in the little cleared field, he and his
            brother Herbert--four years older. It was a blistering day in July. His back ached, his
            feet burned, and there was that miserable consciousness, no matter how hard he worked or
            how he tried to forget, that God was watching him for he was seven years old today. And
            then Herbert had said, resting a moment from his labor:
          Do n't you wish you had died before today, Sammy?"
          "Why?" Sammy had asked in wonder, spitting on his little blistered
            hands to ease the pain of them.
          " Why, then you'd 'a' gone to Heaven sure--cause
            nobody's responsible before they're seven. And now probably you
            won't cause what you do now is sin. I've always wished I'd
            died while I was six. It must be awful to burn forever."
          Sammy's blue eyes had filled with tears and his little brown face had grown
            strangely white, but Herbert had returned to his own row, little dreaming of the woe he
            had planted in his young brother's breast. He himself firmly believed in what
            he had said. He had lost sleep over it in other days, but he was older now and bore it
            more philosophically. Besides, he had never been as
            sensitive as Sammy; so he went back to his work unwittingly.
          "Oh, oh!" was Sammy's passionate, inner cry. Why
            didn't I die yesterday? Oh, why could n't I have died when I was a
            baby and innocent? If I had only thought, I--might have jumped in the well or the
            swimmin' hole or--or--stayed in the woods all night till a painter got me--and
            then I'd a gone to Heaven! And now--" his childish soul stood appalled
            before the enormity of his responsibilities for his sins. Now he would bum forever. How
            could he bear it and live? And yet he dared not die--not now--it was too late. If he
            could only have died yesterday!
          Yes, memory still made him wince, but, secure in the consciousness--how it came about
            that he knew, Sammy himself could not have told--that his hero father put little
            credence in a physical and everlasting fire, aided and abetted by his own rapidly
            developing reasoning powers, and his sensitive little soul soothed by the peaceful
            passing of the years under the cabin roof of the pioneer scholar from North Carolina,
            Sunday had come to represent to Sammy the most interesting day of the seven. It still
            had its drawbacks, for his mother was a strict disciplinarian and allowed no nonsense on
            the sacred day, but from the time he began to be first
            interested--after the paralysis of fear which was merely dread fascination, not
            interest, had passed away--then doubtful, then amused, and lastly sympathetic in a
            removed, superior sort of way--thirteen can be wonderfully superior, sometimes--Sunday
            ceased to pall, with all its restrictions and with all its long and gloomy sermons on
            the terrible doom of the world. In truth, those sermons came to be a source of delight
            to him in more ways than one--as will be shown later--especially the sermons of old man
            Craik who was to preach on this particular Lord's day which was to be marked by
            important events for Sammy.
          Old man Craik was a "Campbellite," and he hailed from Tennessee. He
            knew nothing of books. It was his proud boast that he preached from the Bible alone. He
            had felt no need of preparation for his holy calling. Was not ability to read the Word
            with an understanding heart enough? He had heard the call, had answered it without
            hesitation; and to the majority of the pioneers--to their credit be it said--his fervor
            and manifest honesty covered a multitude of faults, in the interpretation of Scripture
            as well as in the use of the English language. There were many unlettered, itinerant
            preachers of that early day whose motives were far from being as pure and devoted as
            were those of old man Craik.
          
          There were to be two meetings that Sunday, the morning service to be followed by
            baptism, and a later one to begin at"early candle lightin'
            time." Both meetings were to be held in the Goodman schoolhouse. People came
            from far and near. Many brought lunch baskets, purposing to remain for the evening
            service. Other distant ones were guests of the families of the neighborhood. The woods,
            tall and vibrant with the secrets of primevalism, crept up close to the little clearing,
            and a circle of teams was hitched to the inner edge of them, while in the house the
            reverent company silently waited.
          "We will now open the services by singing a hymne," announced Craik,
            when the last stragglers had filed slowly in, and the "hymne" was
            droned forth to the bitter end, led by the preacher, unaided by so much as a tuning
            fork. After which the long, long, prayer, and the longer sermon, in nasal singsong, rose
            and fell whiningly upon the listening air of the little schoolroom and then fled out of
            the open door harshly to dominate for awhile and then softly to mingle with the vague
            whisperings of the forest, and finally to die away altogether. Old man Craik, as was the
            fashion of that day, had a fixed habit of sustaining his voice in a high, monotonous,
            whining chant to a seemingly measured distance, and as regularly dropping it into an expressionless, still singsongy, long-drawn-out
            "ah--."
          "And now, my brethren," he continued, after more than an
            hour's dissertation on the Judgment, "we are plainly told that the end
            will be foretold by signs--ah--and that there will be wars and rumors of war and
            wondrous miracles--ah--and oh, my brethren, has not the time come--ah--have we not seen
            signs in the sun and in the moon and in stars--ah--oh, give heed to the miracle of the
            falling star--ah--it is a sign foretold by Christ Himself--ah--only last month star left
            its fixed place in the sky--ah--it flashed through the air and fell to earth--ah--from
            the place where it had dwelt since the beginning of the world--ah--oh give heed, my
            brethren to the sure coming of the Lord--ah--He said it should be when the stars in
            Heaven should fall--ah--and He will gather His elect from the four winds--ah--and from
            the uttermost parts of the earth--ah--oh, my brethren, have you made sure that you are
            of the elect--ah--and the star weighed full seventy pounds--wasn't that so,
            Sammy Goodman?"
          The anti-climax was not altogether a surprise to Sammy. It was not the first time he
            had been called upon to verify statements made from the pulpit in the heat of oratory.
            Old man Craik realized that Sammy Goodman's mental grasp of the contents of the newspaper was much more to be relied upOn than
            was his own--as well as his memory thereof. He was actuated in his appeal by two
            motives. He was really conscientiously averse to making a false statement and thus
            deliberately deceiving his people; and he dreaded that little spark of ridicule in Sammy
            Goodman's eyes when he fell down on his facts. He could not rid himself of the
            feeling that Sammy always knew when he was treading on thin ice. This was one of the
            aforementioned delights that Sammy derived from the sermons. It flattered him immensely,
            this deference, although nothing could convey a more superb appearance of indifference
            than did his careless nod of affirmation. No one Would have dreamed from his calm,
            matter-of-fact demeanor that he was wondering if Mary Ann Hamilton were not proud of his
            friendship and protection; and he said to himself, with patronizing generosity, that
            whatsoever the future might hold for him, he should always be good to little
            bashful-eyed Mary Ann; he should never, never repudiate his friendship with the little
            backwoods maiden. Neither could any one know the real heroism it required on his part
            not to turn to her where she sat across the aisle for her glance of sure, if shy,
            admiration. Hard as it was, however, he still kept his face serenely forward.
          
          There was another person unexpectedly present toward whom Sammy had an almost
            irresistible desire to turn his head, but he conquered this impulse also. If he had
            caught this person's eye, he should very probably have winked--there was no
            doubt at all about the other fellow's having done so--and as the person had
            dropped down upon a bench close to the door, and as Sammy was way up toward the front,
            plainly such a procedure would not have done at all. Bold as he was, even Sammy hardly
            dared brave the phalanx of righteous, accusing eyes which stretched between and which
            would have immediately waylaid and withered such a glance had he dared essay it. He was
            surprised to see his friend at meeting. Old Dan Carmichael was without the pale. He was
            considerably addicted to the use of Kentucky "cawn juice" as his
            flushed face bore constant testimony, and more than considerably addicted to blasphemy.
            In truth, he was a past master in both of these liberal arts. And yet in spite of the
            blackness of his sins, old Dan Carmichael was a hero in the eyes of Sammy Goodman,
            Zachariah Posey, and all the boys on and in the neighborhood of the old Buffalo Trace in
            that particular spot of pioneer southern Indiana--and this notwithstanding parental
            disapproval and authority that often failed lamentably of enforcement, because the
            fathers and mothers themselves could not altogether resist
            the attraction of old Dan's merry, twinkling eyes, his inexhaustible fund of
            good stories, and his friendliness toward all the world in particular but toward never
            democrat in general. He himself was an old line Whig of the deepest dye. In that day,
            young people were still brought up in wholesome respect of the superior wisdom and
            judgment of their elders, so it is to be feared that the parents were themselves much to
            blame for the laxity in moral practice which welcomed this grizzled veteran of the War
            of 1812 to every hearthstone in the neighborhood--where the boys crowned him King of
            Heroes.
          It was from him that they received their first lessons in the wars of their land, and
            they derived therefrom a burning love and zeal for the heroism, the patriotism of war;
            for these tales around the crackling logs of an open fire on a winter's night
            were enough to inspire the ardor of American boyhood, whose love of country ever lies so
            near the surface that a spark will start a conflagration which, when the time comes, no
            chemical, no rush of water will smother--nothing will avail but the red heart's
            blood of that country's bravest and best.
          Sammy was an especial favorite of Dan's, and the old man never wearied of
            telling his tales over and over again to this eager listener. If these memory pictures, inevitably faded a little by the flight of
            nearly forty-five years, and recolored by imagination, sometimes showed more of the pomp
            and circumstance of war, and its golden opportunities, Sammy Goodman, listening with
            dreamy eyes fixed upon the red coals in the fireplace, saw, also, with a strange
            prescience, the shadows in the background.
          Sammy knew that this friend would appreciate the situation of his being called upon
            from the very pulpit itself, and yet he refrained from gratifying his inclination for a
            backward glance, even as he had kept heroically turned away from the worship in Mary Ann
            Hamilton's eyes.
          But that was not all. This proved to be a veritable day of triumphs for Sammy. The long
            sermon was ended at last, and what was that old preacher Craik was saying?
          " We'll now repair to the water's aidge, and there perform
            the solemn ceremonies of baptism. 'Sammy Goodman, will you lead the
            way?"
          And Sammy led the way out of the little meeting house with a nonchalant air of
            familiarity with the duty imposed upon him that was impressive, to say the least, the
            entire congregation filing out from the rude benches to follow in the wake of the little
            figure in homespun and the stiff, unaccustomed shoes of Sunday.
          Old man Craik judged it well for the dignity and order of
            the baptismal procession to the waters of purification that it be conducted thither by a
            leader; thus all straggling, hesitation through ignorance of locality, and any unseemly
            levity which might arise with the scattering of the people into pairs and groups would
            be averted, and the Lord's day decorum unprofaned. Who, then, better knew the
            way to that sacred spot of boyhood, the "swimmin' hole" in
            Crooked Creek, than Sammy Goodman--the quickest way and the easiest, so that the only
            deep water near at hand might be reached before the feeling of solemnity engendered by
            the impassioned sermon be dissipated? It was a secluded spot in a winding ceek, much
            better known to boys than to men; and it had already been proved that Sammy Goodman
            would neither giggle, nor stammer, nor whistle, nor throw stones, nor stub his toes, nor
            run ahead nor lag behind, nor give way to any expression of extreme embarrassment, by
            one or all of which symptoms most boys in a similar position would immediately attaked.
            Under Sammy's leadership, the procession wound through the brilliantly colored
            woods in a seemly and dignified manner, and those touched to repentance went down into
            the cool, dark, placid waters of the shaded creek with the benediction of peace and
            quiet and orderliness.
          
          But, after all, Sammy was only a boy and embarrassment found at last the vulnerable
            heel. He was greatly surprised himself. He bad thought that after the accumulation of
            triumphs this day had heaped upon him he would be bold enough to defy all the world and
            to meet the obstacles put in the way of the males of his kind--obstacles like
            embarrassment in the presence of a girl and reluctance to let one's fellows
            know that one's heart harbors a fondness for the gentle sex--like a man. By a
            supreme effort of the will, aided by the remembrance of his morning's triumphs
            and his thrilled consciousness that she was glad for him and proud of
            him, he had courageously surmounted the first earthwork thrown up in his path; but he
            weakened before the last and--ignominiously went around it.
          "Say, Zack," he said, carelessly, coming up to his friend while the
            congregation was dispersing--the newly baptized and their friends having first hastened
            up the bank and away to their several homes or visiting places to change their dripping
            garments--"you pack my Test'ment home, will you? Pap and mam have gone
            and I would n't ask Herb to pack it for a million dollars."
          "All right," responded Zack, good-naturedly, taking possession of his
            hero's book, "come along, Sammy, most everybody's gone. My, I
              wisht I was as smart as you." His freckled face
            beamed with boyish affection and veneration.
          "I can't come now," said Sammy, with a fine air of regretful
            impatience. "That's why I wanted you to take my book."
          " Ain't comin'!" ejaculated Zack, in as much
            surprise as Sammy himself had displayed when informed of Zack's sudden and
            alarming illness on the first day of school. When had it ever happened that he and Sammy
            Goodman had not walked home from school or meeting together?
          "Nope. You see--the woods get awful dark and lonesome along in the afternoon
            and none of her folks could come today. She's terrible afraid of bears and
            painters and hants--huh--just like a girl. There aint been any bear or painter or hant
            seen in these woods since--I do n't know when, 'ceptin' at
            night of course, but then that's just like girls. They're afraid of
            their shadows. It's an awful long ways to her place, and I'm kind
            o' tired already. There she is waiting. No help for it, suppose. Little
            fraid-cat! Dum it all, Zack, I has to go home with Mary Ann, and I hates to,
            too!"
          It was thus that he got even with Zachariah Posey for the affront of the spelling
            match, although, as has been before intimated, that was not his object at all.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER III
          CROOKED CREEK BOTTOM
          "SAMMY! Sammy Goodman! Get right up this minuteI Do you
            hear? Your father has the team all ready and the biscuits are stone cold! This is the
            third time I have called you! I sha' n't call again!"
          And Sammy, roused from his dreams by the tone of real finality in his mother's
            voice--which he was quick to recognize--awoke to the fact that the light streaming in at
            his tiny attic window was the forerunner of a fair day, and fair weather meant thrashing
            and no more school for awhile at least. How he had hoped to be awakened the sound of
            rain upon the roof! He tumbled lazily out of bed. Herbert's place by his side
            had been vacant a long time. He had a faint remembrance of a spectral rising in the dim
            dawn and of a good-natured admonition to "get up before mam gets after
            you!" That seemed a long time ago. He began to fear that he had let
            "mam" call once too often. But his smile was so engaging and his
            forbearance so fetching when Mollie and Ama Jane, the baby sisters, pressed around him,
            begging him to tie their hair and button their dresses,
            that, with a tender smile in her heart which she was too busy to show, the mother
            decided to forget about the scolding she had been saving up for some time; so she only
            said,
          "Hurry up, Sammy! Pap'll be real angry if you are n't ready
            for breakfast."
          "Well," Sammy consoled himself, as he munched his hickory-smoke-cured
            ham and sopped up the red gravy with a biscuit, miraculously hot in spite of his
            mother's warning, "there won't be anybody at school today
            anyway but girls and little tads. I won't be the only big fellow thrashing,
            thank goodness! I reckon this won't putt me back a great deal."
          "Son," said Mr. Goodman, gravely, "Zack is a nice boy. I
            have n't a thing in the world against him--as a boy--but do n't you
            really think that your father and mother make better models on which to fashion your use
            of language? Zack talks his mother tongue and he cannot be blamed for that--but it is
            neither your mother tongue nor your father tongue," concluded this pioneer
            scholar, with the twinkle of a smile in his kindly eyes.
          "Mary Ann Hamilton says 'putt,'" said Herbert,
            innocently. " It is n't her mother tongue, either. Now, I wonder if
            she is copying after Sammy here or Zachariah Posey?"
          
          If Herbert expected an entertaining scene at the breakfast table because of
            Sammy's known explosiveness of temper on those occasions when his big
            brother's teasing went a trifle too far, he was disappointed. This morning,
            Sammy was still enveloped with the delicious sense of superiority and power with which
            yesterday had clothed him. He even felt at that moment pleasantly superior to
            Herbert--Herbert, whom his boyish heart ha idolized and built itself upon in secret
            these many years--so he could well afford to smile loftily and to put off
            "getting even" until some future time when forbearance should cease to
            be a virtue, which time, he reckoned from past experience, would surely come some
            day.
          Mr. Goodman had rented a certain piece of land on Crooked Creek Bottom from a neigh-
            bor, Hank Halstead, and had put it into wheat. Thither were he and Sammy bound on that
            Monday morning--to load and haul the grain to the thrashing ground on his own clearing
            across the creek from the rented strip. This thrashing ground was an index of the
            primitive methods of farming which prevailed at that time and in that locality. A ring,
            similar to that of a circus, had been excavated and the ground within the circle
            repeatedly dampened and trampled upon until it was as hard as a floor. Here Sammy and
            Herbert and other helpers would wear away the long, weary,
            monotonous hours of the day in a ceaseless round of riding the circle--the hoofs of
            their horses beating the grain from the chaff. Remembering other days of riding doggedly
            around and around the ring when the sun beat hot upon his head and he was so tired and
            dizzy that it seemed sometimes as if his bare legs could no longer cling to the broad
            back of the horse, it was little wonder Sammy had longed so ardently for the sound of
            rain driving against his window when he awakened that moving. And yet in after years,
            some of the tenderest memories of his life were associated with those hours and hours of
            the crude thrashing of wheat on horseback. Such a glance backward brought ever a smile
            into his man's eyes even while a sob of homesickness for the old tranquil order
            so soon passed away would rise in his throat at the same time. For these reminiscences
            were all sacred with the memories of the best man he ever knew--the pioneer father waho
            had not lived to see the passing of that old order.
          It had been an unusually wet summer, and, shortly after the grain had been cut and
            shocked, had come the heaviest rain of the whole season. Crooked Creek rose and
            overspread its banks, reached out and caught at the standing shocks and bore them out to
            the current of the stream which had become temporarily a raging torrent. They were torn apart and shattered and fully one-half of the fair
            yellow crop was completely destroyed.
          "Man, are you crazy?" Hank Halstead had cried in angry and ugly
            concern over the prospect of his personal loss. "I 'lowed
            you'd move that there wheat back long ago! Did n't you know the crick
            was sure to raise and sweep all over this here bottom?"
          "I am very sorry," Mr. Goodman had answered, quietly, "but I
            never dreamed of such a contingency. You must remember this is the first time I have
            ever planted on this particular bit. I was only following your tactics, neighbor. I
            never knew you to move your grain back when you farmed this piece, so, naturally, I
            never thought of it."
          " After all this wet weather?" Halstead had continued to argue,
            heatedly. "Any man in his senses, seems to me, would have anticipated just such
            a state of things as has come to pass. Just 'cause a crick behaves herself one
            year is no sign she won't act up another time, is it? Specially when
            we've had nothing but rain, rain, rain, all this cussed summer?"
          " I should have counted it right neighborly in you to have given me a friendly
            warning--since you yourself were so convinced of impending disaster," Mr.
            Goodman had responded, still quietly, although a dark flush
            had risen to his face and his eyes--deeply blue, like Sammy's--began to gleam
            with strange lights. "You must have known that the wheat was left on the bottom
            to dry out before it was advisable to thrash it."
          "And gotten a laugh for my pains, like enough," said Halstead,
            morosely. " No, thank you. There's no telling you high and mighty ones
            anything. You already know it all. It was your business--not mine. Why should I
            interfere? You'd have told me to go to hell--you were running this place. Well,
            I'll take what's left and call it square this time. Another time,
            maybe you will be wiser."
          "Not so fast, my friend," said Mr. Goodman, allowing his glance to
            pass lightly over the devastated field while he mentally calculated the worth of what
            might yet be saved from the wreckage. "The loss is, of course, a mutual one. As
            I said before, I am very, very sorry that this has happened, but as I could not foresee
            it, I hold myself blameless for the--uncomfortable accident. We shall just have to put
            it down to profit and loss. We-all hereabouts considered that the summer rains were
            over. You did yourself, Halstead. And it was too early for the fall wet weather. while I
            repeat I am sorry that I have not been a better husbandman, we will stick to the terms
            of our agrement, Mr. Halstead, and share what is left
            according to the contract."
          Instantly, Hastead's anger leaped beyond his control. He was a lean, dark
            sallow-faced man of middle age upon whom the tyrannical wearing away process of
            uncontrolled passion, covetousness and greed had left ineradicable trace. He was not in
            any way the physical or mental equal of the big, clean, erect, kindly-faced man before
            him, with dark hair just turning gray at the edges and eyes so habituated to calm and
            contentment and in-dwelling peace with all the world that even now in their sternness
            they could not be wholly non-understanding or condemnatory; and yet the weaker man dared
            to let his temper fly in the face of the stronger, while he reiterated his unalterable
            determination to have all that was left of the wheat.
          "It would be so unfair otherwise," he cried out at last,
            "that it would be no better than stealing! You think to take advantage of me
            because you are--who you are, and bigoty with book larnin', while I'm
            only a poor devil of a cracker, I suppose you think in your big feeling way--but I tell
            you right now I'm not--I'm every bit as good as you are and you will
            do well not to try to cheat me out of what is my own!"
          For two or three long seconds, fate hung in the balance. Mr. Goodman was himself now so
              thoroughly angry that, if he had struck then, it is more
            than likely that he would have struck so hard and so true that many things would have
            been different in the lives of many people. For fate weaves in seconds, though we are
            wont to shift responsibility by trying to deceive ourselves into the belief that the
            pattern was all completed before the world began. He had been likened to a thief--he,
            Gerry Goodman--but, by whom? Was it worth while to soil his hands and his conscience by
            knocking down a man like Hank Halstead, who was so palpably not a gentleman? Moreover,
            the terms of the agreement were so plainly set forth that, on second thought, Halstead
            must see how futile would be any attempt to obtain undivided possession of the remainder
            of the wheat. He, Goodman, would give the man time to cool off and to perceive the
            fallacy of his contention. So he turned on his heel, abruptly, without a word, and left
            Halstead staring after him on the wet and soggy field.
          Thus matters stood on that fair, early morning in September when Gerry Goodman and his
            son, Sammy, were preparing to drive over after the wheat for the late thrashing. Sammy
            was already in the wagon and had taken up the lines, while his father was still
            puttering about the harness, when they saw Zachariah Posey, young Zack's
            father, coming down the lane. His easy, unhurried, slouchy
            gait betokened laziness, good nature, content.
          "Howdy! You're a-gittin' a early start, Mr.
            Goodman," was his salutation as he came up and leaned against a front wheel.
            From some wheat heads adhering to the wagon box from some previous hauling, he slowly
            extracted the kernels and chewed them enjoyingly. All the time that there was in the
            world seemed to be Zachariah Posey's personal possession to do as he pleased
            with, and he usually pleased to let it run on ahead while he loitered by the
            wayside.
          " Not so early as it might be," said Mr. Goodman. It's all
            of seven o'clock . Sammy here overslept considerably. You are helping me today,
            aren't you, neighbor?"
          He was now entirely satisfied with the condition of the harness, but Mr. Posey still
            leaned against the wheel, and courtesy forbade driving off under the circumstances.
          "I 'lowed to putt in the day huntin' till I reecollected
            that you was thrashin' ter-day. Me an' Zack'll both be up ter
            lend a hand. You kakilatin' ter pack the wheat from over yander on
            Halstead's bottom this morning'?"
          "Yes, and, as it's getting pretty late, I reckon we'd better
            be moving on. We must finish this job before the pesky rains begin again."
          He put his foot suggestively on the opposite wheel and
            Posey regretfully straightened himself.
          "I jist met Halstead yander ter the crossroads," he said, in his
            slow, drawling voice. "I low they'll be trouble yit over that there
            wheat, Mr. Goodman. He says ter me ter say ter you that if you teched ary bundle on his
            place, ther'd be trouble sure. If I was you I would pack along that old
            revolver of yourn."
          Goodman's jaws came together with a little snap, but he only said, mildly,
            "Oh, he won't do anything rash, I reckon. He knows as well as I do how
            unreasonable his claim is. He wouldn dare to push it. However, I'm all ready to
            thrash and I'm going thrash. Wait a minute, Sammy, I want to get a drink of
            water." He went into the house and took a long drink "Well,
            we're off," he said, turning toward his wife as he reached the open
            doorway. "I am afraid we shall have trouble with Hank, but I don't
            suppose it will be anything serious."
          "If there is the least likelihood of trouble, for pity's sake, Gerry,
            leave the old wheat alone. There isn't enough of it to quarrel over, goodness
            knows, and I do hate a neighborhood row of all things! I've always preached how
            easy it was to live at peace with one's neighbors if one would just show a
            little common sense, and neither gush at the beginning nor back-bite to finish off with--just keep dignified. Now let's do a little
            practicing. Besides, I don't like Hank Halstead. I do n't trust him.
            He's as likely to do a mean trick as any man I know, though goodness knows I
            have no call to say so. He never hurt me or mine by word or deed."
          "And he won't today," said Goodman, confidently. He
            wouldn't dare. And as there is a little matter of principle involved, much more
            important to me than the worth of the grain, we'll just settle the question
            right now and get back to our old footing."
          He left the room, climbed into his place beside Sammy, Posey clambered up behind, and
            the heavy wagon creaked out of the barnyard and down the lane through the
            sweet-smelling, drowsy morning air. They crossed the creek, now subsided into its normal
            shallow course, and entered the field. Halstead was there and he came forward at
            once.
          "Did you get my message?" he asked, abruptly, without greeting.
          "Howdy," responded Mr. Goodman, genially, as he jumped lightly to the
            ground. "Fine weather for thrashing, eh, Hank? About time, too. Yes, I got your
            fool message--I knew you were only bluffing me, though. We've been neighbors
            too long for a real rumpus. 'Light, boys, and load 'er up.
            Time's passing."
          
          "I'll shoot the first man who touches a bundle of that
            wheat," said Hank, unexpectedly, and with a deliberateness that was plainly
            forced. Dark circles under his gleaming eyes gave evidence of a sleepless night of
            brooding.
          "Oh, come now, neighbor," said Goodman, soothingly, "you
            know you'll do nothing of the kind. You've no call to talk that way. A
            contract's a contract, you know."
          " Contract or no contract, I mean what I say!" cried Hank, violently.
            "You'd better look out, Mr. Goodman. You've been warned, and
            warned a' plenty!"
          "Shucks! As Mr. Goodman says, you ain' got no call ter talk that air
            way Hank," vouchsafed Posey, loyal to the best friend head on Crooked Creek.
            His shock of blonde, sun-bleached hair was singularly like Zack's, and his
            good-natured face was expressionless with a little too much placidity, but the eyes were
            friendly and trusting. No one could really dislike Zachariah Posey, although many could
            rage at the childlike irresponsibility which could forget a thrashing engagement, for
            instance, in order to spend a long, beautiful day tramping through the woods with his
            gun over his shoulder. "Everybody knows the rights o' this here case.
            What you want ter go an' git folks down on you fer?"
          
          "You keep out o' this, Posey, will you?" snarled Halstead.
            "You're nothin' but Gerry Goodman's puppy dog,
            anyhow, glad to be kicked any and all times just so you can keep jumpin' round
            his feet. I do n't want to hear another word out o' you!"
          " Well, I, for one, have n't time to waste arguing this little
            difference all morning," broke in Mr. Goodman, losing his patience.
            "You can't bluff me, Halstead, and you know it. Take your troubles to
            court if you are n't satisfied. All hands to work! Hop lively, Sammy! Now
            then!"
          As he spoke, he pitched a bundle of wheat into the wagon. Long afterwards, Sammy
            remembered that the vigorous action sent a flock of blackbirds screaming away, but it
            made no impression upon him then. He was gazing fascinated upon Hank Halstead's
            livid face.
          Quick as thought, without a word of warning, Hank stepped forward and struck Goodman
            full in the face. There followed a breathless moment of waiting, during which time, the
            look of absolute surprise in the assaulted man's kindly countenance gave place
            to one of quick resentment and of immediate purpose. As has been before stated, he was,
            physically, Halstead's superior to an eminent degree. It was as if a fox
            terrier had snapped into the face of a huge mastiff. His
            fork fell to the ground. Even then, he was not so angry as he had been when Halstead
            intimated that he was no better than a thief; but he turned upon his assailant, lifted
            his great arm and struck a blow that hurled the smaller man against the side of the
            wagon.
          Hank began to curse, babbling out profanity rapidly, without pause, in an
            expressionless way, as if he were beside himself and knew not that he was articulating
            words. He had not before shown a weapon. No one had really believed he carried one. Hank
            Halstead had always been a talker rather than a doer. Now, however, a revolver flashed
            out suddenly from somewhere, and he fired twice in rapid succession. The range was
            pitifully close. Again came the fleeting look of questioning surprise in Mr.
            Goodman's face--then he sank to the ground without a murmur. It was very still
            for a moment in the yellow-stubbled field. No one spoke or moved.
          "God" said Halstead, then, in a low voice. He tuned suddenly like
            some wild creature at bay. The woods, the great, the ancient, the concealing woods were
            not far away. They circled the little clearing in dark, crowding phalanxes. Their colors
            were splendid on this fair September morning of after frost, but he saw only the welcome
            gloom of their inner fastnesses and he turned to flee--to hide himself there. Posey read his intention and sprang forward in pursuit, but the
            man, with an ugly, "No, you do n't," turned to shoot as he
            ran, and Posey stopped in his tracks. He was unhurt but one of the straying bullets
            found lodgment in the bown, chubby calf of Sammy's leg, and the boy sank to the
            ground, white-faced, wild-eyed, but too wrought up to feel pain or to relief his
            condition.
          He crawled over to the motionless figure by the wagon, hoping that his father had
            followed Posey's advice and procured the revolver when he had gone into the
            house after a drink. He felt through his clothing but there was no revolver there. By
            the time he had completed his search, Halstead had disappeared into the forest.
          The other helpers who had been at the thrashing floor and who had heard the shots now
            came hurrying up. In the quiet of that death which is too sudden and solemn for vain
            questioning or idle speculation, with awe-stricken faces, tenderly they lifted the body
            of their neighbor and friend and placed it carefully in the wagon; then they turned to
            Sammy. His wound was not serious but it was bleeding profusely. He did not seem to
            realize it.
          "He killed pap," he whispered, strangely. "I would have
            killed him for it if pap had had the revolver. Mr. Posey told him he had better take it
            and I thought he had it."
          
          Suddenly catching sight of the blood, the flow of which they were endeavoring to stop,
            he began to sob convulsively. The men bound up his wound and laid him beside his father,
            still in that silence which a great shock brings, when discussion of it is so inadequate
            as to seem mere peevishness babbled in the inscrutable face of Infinity; and the wagon,
            weighted with its burden so much more precious than all the golden wheat of all the
            world that it would seem as if God himself must wonder at the quarrels of men, creaked
            its slow way back to the little "hewed log" cabin where a stony-faced
            woman with two baby girls clinging to her skirts awaited its coming.
          While it was on its dreary journey, one neighbor hastened away for the doctor, another
            for the sheriff. The physician and the officer ofthe law arrived at the cabin at the
            same time, but while one felt for the heart of the murdered man and then turned sadly
            away to minister to the white-faced boy, the other stepped outside, followed by Posey
            and all those other stern-faced men who were beginning now to find their voices and to
            fix their single purpose on the grim duty which lay before them.
          "Who will go?" asked the sheriff briefly, and to a man, they
            answered, "I!"
          But though the volunteer posse searched the murderer's premises diligently, scoured the woods in all directions, visited
            the neighboring farms, nor rested that day nor for many another, the whispering forest
            kept its secret.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER IV
          FOR THE HONOR OF " PAP"
          EVER since Sammy could remember anything, he had simply worshiped his
            father; but since a certain election a few years before when he had been allowed to
            accompany "pap" to his voting precinct, this unreasoning and
            matter-of-course adoration had taken on color and understanding until he began frankly
            and even generously, in his large, somewhat lofty way, to pity fellows who did not have
            Gerry Goodman for their father. At this election, a man had presumed to strike his
            father in the heat of a political argument, and he had seen his father knock the fellow
            down as calmly and easily as if it were an every day occurrence, and then walk quietly
            away without waiting to see whether or not the man wished to continue the quarrel. It
            was over so far as he was concerned. He had obtained satisfaction for an insult. What
            more was there to be said or done? Surely, thought Sammy, there never was another man so
            big and brave and strong as his father. Other boys have thought the same thing
            throughout all the ages, with more or less reason and with more or less intensity, but Sammy believed it with all his heart and soul. Even
            when a man grown, having met and known well many of the great men whom the stress of his
            day and generation brought forth, he never ceased to cherish, in the sacred places of
            the soul, the thought that his father had been great, too. This father's having
            died young, in the full flush of his sensitive small son's passionate hero
            worship, before it was sullied in the least by doubt or comparison which might have come
            in after years, even though unjustly, invested his memory with peculiar sacredness and a
            faith unswerving in Sammy, the man, as was that of the boastful boy who was wont many a
            time to brag importantly "Pap could lick him!"
          Yes, Sammy Goodman was sure "pap" could lick any man in the county,
            and woe betide the luckless boy who essayed to admire a little too freely some other man
            who was supposed to be a great fighter. Sammy was n't much of a fighter himself
            and never began combat, but the fear of his tongue was a potent force which usually kept
            him free from such entanglements. He could be mightily sarcastic for a small boy, and
            few of his mates held out very long when it came to a question of Sammy's talk.
            They generally withdrew all claims in confusion, so it soon became an easy matter for
            him to establish and maintain his father's reputation in the boy world.
          
          It was not only on account of the superiority of his physical strength, however, that
            Sammy had placed his father on so high a pedestal. He also knew everything. Now, Gerry
            Goodman was probably the most learned man in the neighborhood, and was rather scholarly
            for his time; but he doubtless had his mental limitations, which boundaries, however,
            Sammy never discovered. It was a proud moment for the boy when some neighbor came to the
            cabin for information. Such instances were not at all uncommon, for Gerry Goodman, with
            all his learning, had the kindly and understanding heart that won the confidence of at
            least the majority of his neighbors.
          And now that this hero father was gone--gone in the prime of his vigorous manhood and
            fatherhood--what human understanding could fathom the depth of the woe to Sammy? Well
            for him that the exigencies of the family's situation gave him little time to
            brood; for his was the temperament that melancholy lies in wait for--ardent, studious,
            sensitive, thoughtful. But, lying on pap's and mam's bed downstairs
            where he could the more easily be waited upon during the healing of his wound; watching
            his stricken-faced mother going heavily, but conscientiously, about the multitudinous
            tasks inside and out which were now forced upon her; thinking long and long, with
            thoughts suddenly grown old, of the future of the little
            sisters, now prattling gayly in their play around the room, now weeping inconsolably for
            the big pap who was never there at bedtime any more to ride them on big knees while they
            waited in an ecstasy of palpitating, delicious hysteria for the moment when
            "the horse fell into a big hole"; seeing and thinking all these
            things, Sammy Goodman received light to realize the magnitude of his new responsibility
            and strength to fight off, during the long nights of his pain and sleeplessness, the
            spirit of melancholy which had brooded so long and threateningly around his bed.
          He was so healthy and clean-blooded that his wound healed quickly; but it was while he
            still lay upon the bed in the "sitting room" that Herbert came in one
            day to talk things over. He was not so much older than Sammy, after all, and Sammy was
            the stronger in leadership. Herbert had never taken to the work on the little farm. He
            dreamed dreams of the University and a career in medicine. The thought of suffering and
            death was peculiarly abhorrent to him--not so much as a personal matter but just, Why
            should they be? Perhaps, all unconsiously, the ghosts of those old expositions of hell
            and damnation were still shuddering through his sensibilities. However that may be, he
            went on dreaming, even now when he must he the man of the
            family, of men whose calling it was to heal and to save.
          "The Poseys are here, Sammy," he said. "They want to know if
            we are going to thrash that grain. Zack and his dad will both ride all day for us if we
            decide to do it. They've been mighty good to us."
          " I hope God will give me strength and sense never to call Mis' Posey
            shiftless and no-'count again," put in Mrs. Goodman, in stern
            self-accusation, as she brought a bowl of steaming broth to the bedside and sat down to
            help the invalid with his breakfast. "One never can tell. I dare-say
            I'll be just low-down mean enough to be doing it in a month from now--but I
            hope not. She never had time for anything, not even for combing her children's
            hair, or her own either, for that matter, and I've thought a many an unkind
            thing about her for that--but I notice that she has time to take care of my babies when
            I'm strapped for time, and to comb their hair, too, and time to make chicken
            broth for Sammy, using her own pullets, too, when goodness knows she hasn't any
            to spare. I hope I've learned my lesson--though one never can
            tell."
          "Of course we'll thrash that wheat," cried Sammy, red spots
            beginning to burn bright on his white cheeks. "The sooner the better. Good for
            old Zack! I knew he'd help us out!"
          
          "But--what'll we do with it? " asked Herbert,doubtfully.
            I'd rather just leave it alone, would n't you? Nobody wants
            it--now."
          "I do. I want our share and I"m going to have it!" cried
            Sammy, in a loud voice, and his eyes began to shine so unnaturally that Mrs. Goodman
            looked warningly at her older son.
          "And--what--" said Herbert, hesitatingly, "shall we do with
            the rest? Posey says for us to keep it."
          "Haul it over to Halsteads', of course," said Sammy,
            excitedly. "It isn't ours."
          "But he has gone away, you know. He will never come back for it. He will not
            dare!"
          "I do n't care," cried Sammy, feverishly, "you haul
            that wheat over to Halstead's and you put it in his granary. It must
            n't stay on this place. It's--it's--bloody. Thrash it and
            take it away, Herb, take it away--but you leave pap's share. It's
            white and clean. You leave it here, I say!"
          He pushed out his hands a little wildly so that the hot soup splashed on to the
            bed--then he turned his face to the wall.
          And so the grain was thrashed, and the bloody half of it hauled over to Hank
            Halstead's and stored in his granary; but never a sight of the man himself did
            any one catch during the transaction.
          
          When the harvest was well over and Sammy's wound had healed, he went back to
            school, he and Zack; but he was changed. His responsibilities weighed upon him--tangible
            responsibilities now, far different from the vague, visionary ones of the dreamer who
            had loitered on the way to school in the early morning of a day in the fall of the year.
            Often, when he seemed to be laboring with his books--being always quiet and
            thoughtful--he was thinking more than he was studying, thinking his own thoughts and not
            those of the printed page. Sometimes, the tears would suddenly steal down his face. At
            such times, Zack knew, and so did Mary Ann Hamilton, that he was thinking of his father
            and not of the intricacies of some problem in the book, and both in their childish way
            tried to show their affection, their sympathy, and their loyalty.
          A nephew of Hank Halstead's attended the Crooked Creek school. It was during
            the noon hour one day in early winter when Sammy had scudded home immediately after
            dismissal, as he always did now, there was so much to do there, that a number of the
            boys gathered around this nephew--curiosity and interest in no way dimmed by the passage
            of time--and began to discuss the murder in much the same manner as they heard it still
            discussed every night around the fireplaces in their own homes. They were so intent upon expressing their own young opinions and in drawing out
            Bob Halstead's views on the subject that no one noticed when Sammy again
            slipped into the room.
          "Well, I will say this," Bob was saying, "nobody need think
            it was all Uncle Hank's fault. Old Goodman was just trying his dead level best
            to steal that there wheat by some hook or crook, and when he saw he couldn't
            bluff Uncle Hank, he up and hit him right in the face--a mighty dirty, low,mean trick,
            takin' a man by surprise that-a-way. I 'low there ain't ary
            Halstead going' to stand for no sichy doing's as that air. And then he
            grabbed the pitchfork and would have killed Uncle Hank for sure if Uncle Hank
            hadn't shot him first. If fightin' with a pitchfork ain't the
            orneriest kind o' fightin', I do n't know what is! But old
            man Goodman always was a low-down, ornery, quarrelsome, mischief-makin' feller.
            That's what pap always said, and I reckon he knew what he was talkin'
            about."
          Mary Ann Hamilton, who, with other grls, had drawn near to listen, with palpitating
            hearts, felt something suddenly smarting in her honest brown eyes, and, in that moment,
            some part of her extreme, non-reasoning, non-discriminating bashfulness fell away from
            her and left her the stronger forevermore. This call to her child-ish loyalty and honor had come to her with such sudden and
            compelling force that it had to be answered right then. There was no other way. She
            never could have been so bold for herself--but having forgotten herself in the supreme
            moment, she was very bold indeed, though her cheeks burned, her eyes were swimming in
            tears, and her cotton handkerchief was a crushed ball in her tightly clinched little
            brown fist.
          "You would 't dast to say that if Sammy were here!" she
            cried passionately. "You know you wouldn't. You're afraid of
            him, and besides you know it is n'true--what you said. If it is true, what is
            your uncle hiding for? Why does n't he give himself up like a man and prove he
            is innocent? It's 'cause he knows he's a murderer and
            he's afraid and you know it, too, that's why, and he was a coward to
            shoot a boy! You would n't dast to say a word if Sammy were here! You know
            that, too!"
          "Oh, I 'lowed you'd stand up for Goodman on
            Samnmy's account," said Bob, with a disagreeable grin, as he winked
            knowngly at the boys. "Everybody knows you're in love with him. If you
            were n't a girl, though, I'd slap your face for calling me a liar, you
            see if I would n't!"
          Sammy stepped forward. His face was white, his eyes snapped fire. A sudden swift
            silence fell upon the little group. The boys involuntarily
            backed away while the girls stared wide-eyed and fascinated. Something was going to
            happen.
          " I'm not a girl, Bob Halstead," said Sammy, quietly,
            "and I will call you the same thing she did, only in plainer words. You are a
            liar and a coward!"
          "Oh, I am, am I? You just come out doors and I'll show you whether
            I'm a coward or not--if you dast!" cried Bob, loudly,
            blusteringly.
          Without a word, Sammy turned and left the room. Bob followed him, and by far the
            greater number of excited pupils trooped after the combatants. The schoomaster had not
            yet returned from dinner. His present boarding place being within walking distance, he
            always availed himself of the opportunity to slip away, even for this brief time, from
            the confusion and restlessness of the noisy pioneer school.
          The boys were evenly matched, nearly of the same age, both healthy, husky, farmer
            lads--although there were those who feared for Sammy because of the gunshot wound which
            had kept him confined for so many days. The two stepped up to each other and the rest
            immediately formed a ring around them, boy fashion. Sammy maintained the fixed,
            determined look which had been there since his entrance upon the scene, and had spoken
            no work since his quiet challenge. Bob Halstead, on the
            contrary, talked loudly, abusively, threateningly, as if, perchance, to over-awe his
            antagonist, or perhaps to duly impress the other fellows, the most of whose sympathies,
            he felt, instinctively, were with the boy whose father had been murdered. He was
            evidently laboring under great excitement. He made the first aggressive movement, wading
            into the conflict at once. Sammy was more cautious. For a long time, he kept himself on
            the defensive. It began to look as if he never would start in in earnest. The spectators
            began to wonder. Was he afraid? Was he feeling the weakness of his wound more than
            anyone had realized? It was a damp day with a feeling of snow in the air, but already
            the perspiration was rolling down young Halstead's flushed face with the
            violence of his aggressive warfare. His friends thought that he had already won. They
            began to yell their encouragement and to hoot at the "easiness" of the
            vanquished. Fired by these sounds of acclamation and mistaking Sammy's
            continued defensive tactics for cowardice, Bob's bravado rose in proportion to
            his leaping sense of speedy victory.
          "Aw, come up and fight like a man!" he cried, tauntingly. "I
            hain't got time to follow you up all over this here county!"
          As if Sammy had been waiting for this taunt to usher in
            the psychological moment, he now stepped forward quickly and struck his antagonist full
            in the face. It might have been that he was thinking of a blow this boy's uncle
            had given his father in a wheat field on a fair morning of after-frost. Something put a
            great and unexpected and stinging force into that blow of Sammy's, so it might
            very well have been that memory. Bob cried aloud in the quick pain and surprise of this
            unlooked-for development.
          " You will, will you, dod rot your ornery, measly, sneakin'
            hide!" he shrilled, in rage, and leaped upon Sammy in deadly earnest.
          Sammy was ready for the onslaught, however, and now the blows fell thick and fast, with
            the advantage seemingly on neither side. Soon, both noses were bleeding, eyes were
            swollen, and lips cut. The nerve the two boys displayed was astonishing. This was no
            child's play. Neither dreamed of crying, "Quits!" Finally,
            however, Sammy succeeded in driving a blow squarely home in the already purple and lumpy
            face of Bob Halstead which seemed to daze that young game-cock. He staggered, and some
            of his friends ran to his assistance. Sammy failed to follow up his advantage. He just
            stood still and waited.
          "I hain't licked yit--not by a long shot!" cried Bob, at
            last, pulling away from the sup-port of his backers.
            " Come on, Smarty, come on now! No backin' out! I'm
            a-goin' to wipe up the ground with you!"
          Belligerent in the extreme, the tone and the words; but it was noticed that he himself
            made no move. The onlookers had all stepped back into their places agan, expecting an
            immediate resumption of hostilities. Suddenly, young Halstead stooped and grabbed up a
            ball bat with which some of the boys had been playing "two old cat"
            before the fight had usurped, temporarily, all other interests, and before any one had
            time to realize the meaning of the swift action, he struck Sammy a blow on the head
            which doubled him up at once and he sank to the ground, unconscious, a crumpled heap of
            blue homespun, stout but pitifully still limbs, and white, bloody face.
          'Coward! Coward! Shame! Oh, shame! Coward! Coward! Coward!"
          The air rang with cries of contempt, horror and condemnation from the throats of the
            young lovers of fair play on both sides. Some of the older boys rushed in and seized the
            bat; others hurried to the creek for water and dashed it wildly into Sammy's
            face. Fortunately the bat was not a hard one or there would have been another tragedy on
            Crooked Creek. It was clumsily fashioned from light timber instead of from well-seasoned wood, as the yarn balls of that day and district
            required such frail stuff only in the various adaptations of "old cat"
            and "town ball" which preceded our great national game. Presently,
            Sammy sat up dizzily, and then stumbled to his feet.
          "I'm all right. Let me alone, fellows. Don't any one come
            with me," he said, and shuffled unsteadily away towards the woods back of the
            schoolhouse.
          The boys looked at one another questioningly. It seemed an extremely strange request
            under the circumstances; but they acceded to it and flocked excitedly into the
            schoolhouse to talk the matter over.
          When he had walked some distance into the woods, where it was so dense that the now
            bared branches and trunks of the trees concealed all glimpse of building or children,
            Sammy sat down upon a stump and buried his throbbing head in hishands. Oddly enough, his
            first thoughts after regaining consciousness were not of the physical pain which was
            racking his body, but were rather a continuation of those with which he had gone into
            the fray--"He lied about pap. Will any one believe those lies? I ve got to make
            him take them back, or else there'd be somebody who'd believe them.
            I've got to fight forpap." Now, dizzy, aching, bewildered, he yet was
            thinking that he had struck for his father's honor
            and that surely Bob Halstead's cowardly attack with the bat had only served to
            crown him, Sammy, victor in the eyes of all his boy world. To fight further would have
            been folly--mere child's play. He was glad he had not sullied his hands and his
            own honor by pitching madly into one who did not know the first rudiments of fighting
            fair. Sometime, he would get even for that blow--but that was a personal affair and
            could wait. He considered that he had vindicated his father's honor when he had
            brought that father's vilifier to the pass where he must either give in, like
            the man he was not, or--grab a ball bat, like the coward he was. But--did any one
            believe that terrible lie? Not Mary Ann, anyway. Sitting there in the gloom of the
            chilly woods, he experienced a glow of satisfaction, remembering how she had plucked up
            courage to tell Bob to his face that he was a liar; and, as he sat there, musing, a
            timid little hand was laid on his shoulder, and an anxious voice said softly:
          " Oh, Sammy, I--I'm so sorry. Are you hurt bad?"
          The boy straightened up at once and tried to smile carelessly and indifferently, but
            his swollen and bleeding face made it but a poor effort and disproved the brave words he
            spoke.
          "Naw! I'm not hurt," he said, but Mary Ann saw his facefully now for the first time and she gave a little
            frightened scream.
          "Oh, Sammy!" she cried, "your face looks awful!
            It's all bloody and swollen. Hadn't I better run quick and tell
            somebody to get the doctor?"
          "I should say not!" said Sammy, decidedly. "I'm all
            right now. I'll go over to the creek and wash my face and then I won't
            look so bad."
          He stumbled to his feet, but he was very weak and his eyes were swollen almost shut so
            that his progress was rather blind one. Waiving all her bashfulness again in the pity of
            her womanly little heart, Mary Ann hastened to his side, slipped her hand into his, and
            guided him solicitously down to the stream where she sought, found, and placed a small
            log for him to kneel upon.
          "I 'low that was the meanest trick I ever knew any one to play--to up
            and hit you with a club," she said. "He knew he was whipped, of
            course, but he ought to o' been satisfied. The boys all think it was very dishonorable," she concluded primly, some of her diffdence
            running back to her when she saw Sammy emerge from his ablutions looking more
            natural.
          "Do you think any of them believed that lie about pap?" demanded
            Sammy, quickly, scrambling to his feet and wiping his face with his handkerchief. That
            last phrase of the girl's was infinitely soothing
            to his bruised spirit. He was very grateful, but he did not know how to say so.
          "No, indeed! How could they?" declared Mary Ann, valiantly.
            " I'm sure they don't. Not any of them!
            Nobody ever claimed anything like that before. Not ary person who was--there ever said
            anything like that. He just made that up and nobody believes
            it!"
          "Good for you, Mary Ann!" was all Sammy found to say, but his poor
            eyes with the purple bruises smarted with the tears of tenderness that would rise at
            this brave manifestation of sympathy on the part of his gentle little friend. He was not
            so very old, you know, and he had been sorely tried of late.
          Somebody else was coming. Mary Ann's quick woods ears caught the sound of
            approaching footsteps and she glided away. She need not have been afraid. It was only
            Zack--faithful Zack.
          "Hello!" he cried, when he saw Sammy sitting on the bank of the
            creek. "I been lookin' all over for you. How do you
            feel?"
          " I do n't feel very well," replied Sammy listlessly.
          "I don't wonder! That certainly was the orneriest, lowest-down trick
            I ever see played in l my hull life. All the fellers are down on him for it.
            You'd better come along, though. It air
            schooltime, an' if we do n't hurry right smart we'll git a
            lickin'. I reckon you'll git one anyhow for fightin'. Say,
            let's you an' me jist make off fer home. You do n't deserve
            that lickin' no more'n nothin' an' maybe old
            Mitchell will cool down some when he hears the straight of it."
          This then was the faithful Zack's errand--and he would go with him and take a
            licking tomorrow for truancy! Good old Zack! But Sammy was too proud to run.
          When the boys reached the schoolhouse, the bell had just rung, and the pupils were
            filing into their places. The master was sitting behind his desk, his usually stern face
            looking a little sterner, if that were possile. Nobody opened a book, and the shuffling
            feet were still. The monotony of every day and every day just alike in the little school
            world had already been broken that day; but there was something more to come. All felt
            it. Before ever the thrill from the excitement on the playground had time to die away,
            here was anew, rather a ontinuedinterest. To be sure,
            "lickin's" were not so uncommon in Crooked Creek schoolhouse;
            but as the fight had been an unusual one, so the expectation was that its aftermath
            would be an unusual licking.
          "Robert Halstead and Samuel Goodman will come forward!" said the
            master, in a loud, rasping voice which boded ill for the delinquents.
          
          The two went forward.
          "Take off your jackets!"
          They silently removed their jackets.
          "Now then!"
          He collared Bob first and proceeded to give him such a trouncing as the masters of that
            day were famous for and which today would seem the very extreme of cruelty and
            brutishness. Bob howled lustily, wriggling tearfully in the master's iron grasp
            and begging for mercy; but when Sammy's turn came, he gritted his teeth and
            took his beating quietly. Perhaps it was laid on him a little harder because of this
            stubborn silence; but not for the world would he have shown the white feather then. He
            was in the right. As Zack had said, he did not deserve this licking--therefore, he must
            take it--quietly. But he could not help wondering if the master was ever going to stop.
            He began to think that he might die first--he was so very dizzy and had such a strange,
            unsteady feeling everywhere. It was too bad the new shirt mam had found time to make for
            him in the midst of all her other trebled duties against the time of his going back to
            school should be all stained up. He thought that blood was drawn from his back and
            shoulders at every stroke of the whip. That thought hurt him almost as much as the
            physical chastisement. But a glimpse of Mary Ann's face as she gazed blindly out of the window, the big tears streaming down unchecked,
            steadied him. She would feel very bad if--anything happened to him--and she must never
            know how near he came to screaming aloud just then when the cruel lash fell upon an
            already quivering bruise.
          "Now," said the master, when at last he desisted, from exhaustion
            rather than from inclination, it is to be feared, "I reckon you boys
            won't fight again in a hurry, will you? What did you say?"
          "No, sir," whimpered Bob.
          "What did you say, Sammy?"
          "I did n't say anything," said Sammy, shortly.
          "I thought I did n't hear you," said the master.
            "Well, what do you say now?"
          "I say I will fight any one at any time who talks about my father as Bob
            Halstead did," said Sammy, deliberately.
          The school gasped.
          "Oh, you will, will you?" cried the master, with an ugly smile. His
            discipline was in danger and that would never do. He grasped the whip more firmly than
            ever and laid his hand on the boy's shoulder.
          "Now, what do you say? Yes or no?"
          "Yes."
          The lash descended with renewed vigor.
          "Now?"
          
          "Yes."
          Again the lash. Sammy grew paler and paler. His eyes were becoming glazed. He was
            trembling all over.
          "Got enough?" asked the master.
          The boy deigned no answer.
          Suddenly, Zechariah Posey stood up. His round, chubby face was almost as white as
            Sammy's.
          "I 'low he won't fight no more," he stammered,
            confused by the astonished attention he was getting. "I promise for him.
            He's sick an' he do n't any more know what he's
            a-sayin' than a baby. You quit now! Sammy won't fight if I say he
            won't. Sammy an' me's always been friends. He hain't
            right strong yit from his gunshot."
          "Yes, I will, too, fight--if I have to, Zack," said Sammy, resolutely
            repudiating the friend's well-meant promise, but flashing an understanding and
            a grateful smile at the friend.
          There was another hard, telling blow, and then something in the deathly pallor of the
            boy's face, and an odd drooping of the figure, combined with a look of absolute
            unconquerableness in the swollen eyes, frightened the master and stayed his hand.
          "That will do for the present," he said, briefly. "Go to
            your seat. I trust you will be in a better frame of mind
            tomorrow," and, being still a little perturbed when he saw the utter weakness
            and wearines of Sammy as the boy stumbled to his seat, he forgot to administer the
            whipping to Zack which he had fully meant to give when he was listening to the
            boy's insolent plea for Sammy.
          "What will ma say?" was Sammy's troubled thought as he
            trudged wearily home from school late that afternoon. His mother had ever been a
            stricter disciplinarian than his father. A whipping at school often meant another at
            home. But when he told her about it, she only said, and there was a strange gentleness
            in her voice:
          "Yes, I know all about it. Mary Ann stopped in and told me."
          Then she busied herself in applying soothing lotions to his bruises, put him to bed,
            and went out in the gathering dusk to do his chores herself.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER V
          TREEING A COON
          SAMMY had but just fallen asleep--so he thought--when he was awakened
            by an excited whisper
          "Sammy! Sammy! Sammy Goodman! Wake up quick! Prince has treed a
            coon!"
          In reality, he had been deeply slumbering for several hours, as it was now nearly three
            o'clock of a dark, chill morning in late fall, a year after the tragic death of
            Gerry Goodman; and, although he and Zack had visited together rather a long time, with
            their heads under the patchwork quilts to prevent Herbert's catching the gist
            of their whisperings, as well as to protect themselves from any stray pillows which
            might descend upon them suddenly from out the dark of the elder brother's place
            and cot on the other side of the room, as a gentle reminder that the night was made for
            slumber, eight o'clock had found them safely in bed and presumably asleep.
            Candles must not be wantonly wasted in that thrifty household--especially now that the
            supply was so sadly diminished, lackng the wherewithal, since Gerry Goodman had gone
            away. It was one of those rare nights when, as an especial
            treat, Zack had been allowed to spend it with Sammy; but there was no sleep so deep,
            except the final one, that could shut out the sound of his much loved dog's
            voice from the young master's ears. Prince was shaggy and mongrel but he was
            the best 'coon dog in the country, at least he was in Zack's
            estimation, and, without doubt, he did have a keen scent for that sagacious little
            animal. Both Zacks would have staked all they possessed--which, in truth, was not
            much--upon his absolute infallibility where coons were concerned.
          "I tell you, Prince has treed a coon!" repeated Zack, impatient at
            Sammy's unexpected unresponsiveness.
          "How do you know?"asked Sammy, sleepily.
          " Do n't you hear him?" demanded Zack, for once assuming the
            initiative, scrambling out of bed and pulling on his trousers, far too excited to heed
            the damp coldness of the room.
          "Let him bark," said Sammy, indifferently, pulling the bed clothes
            closer around him as he felt the chill settling down into Zack's vacated place.
            "Likely he's only baying at the moon, anyway." He snuggled
            down closer in the warm bed and prepared to drift off again into dreamless slumber.
          "Huh!" exclaimed Zack, resentfully, "I 'low Prince
            has got more sense 'n ter bark at the moon --specially when it's way over in Chiny an' it's as dark
            out as a stack o' black cats. There can't nobody fool me on
            Prince's bark. I 'low I'd oughter know. He's my
            dawg. 'T ain't very far, nuther, an' I'm
            a-goin' ter git that air coon if you in't. So there!"
          It was a long speech for Zack, but the dear topic of his coon dog inspired it. He
            continued his dressing doggedly. He was much hurt at Sammy's indifference.
          "I don't care if Prince has treed forty coons, I ain't going
            to get up at this time of night. What did you wake me up for, anyway? I'm dead
            asleep. Come back to bed and wait till morning. Do act with some sense!"
          "You'll be sorry in the mornin', when it's too
            late," said Zack, conclusively. "I woke you 'cause I thought
            you had some spunk."
          A daring thrust, this, for Zack, but somehow Sammy wasn't so awe-inspiring
            when he wa huddled up in the middle of the bed, and it was very dark besides, and
            Prince's far away but insistent barking excited him and made him feel strangely
            independent. He groped for the landing.
          "What you going to do?" demanded Sammy, wide awake at last, and
            sitting up suddenly.
          "I'm a-goin' ter git that air coon," said Zack,
            with dignity.
          
          "What you young 'uns up to, ayway?" cried a voice from the
            opposite comer, husky with sleepy indignation. "Get into bed and shut up.
            'T ain't near time to get up yet," and, turning over, Herbert
            was asleep again.
          "Wait for me, Zack," whispered Sammy, much excited now that he was
            thoroughly aroused. "I'm going, too."
          "You'll have to hurry a right smart then," returned Zack,
            only half mollified at this tardy response.
          "Sh--sh--! We must n't wake mam nor the girls!"
          Sammy dressed quickly and the two boys crept down the stairs on tiptoe and opened the
            door softly. It was very dark. There was as yet no hint of dawn. It almost seemed, so
            dense was the blackness, that it could be cut with a kife. Prince's persistent,
            triumphant barking, however, was reassuring and their companionship 'made them
            temporarily bold. Most young people of that day and neighborhood, nor was it always
            confined to the young, by any means, cherished a belief in "hants," a
            half belief by day, but a good whole one by night, and this faith was none the less
            sincere because more often than not it was unconfessed, and even wordily repudiated,
            when occasion demanded. But both lads had silently braced themselves with the thought
            that ghosts seldom, if ever, manifested themselves to more
            than on person at a time. Verily, in union there is strength. And then, as they rater
            breathlessly followed the sound of the distant baying of the hound over toward
            Halstead's woods, the late moon, dissipated looking and far on the wane,
            slipped into the sky. They breathed more freely. But once in the deep woods where the
            weird moonlight did not penetrate, and where the darkness was so still that the pumping
            of their hearts sounded like the beat of drums, and the rustle of a fallen leaf
            underfoot caused them to clutch each other convulsively, they experienced a demoralizing
            sense of "creepiness," and instinctively crept closer together,
            listening to the awful stillness which ruled the forest except for the barking of the
            excited dog, which is always a mournful sound at night, even when it signifies a treed
            coon, and for the faint stirring of the woods folk which was fraught with so much of
            mystery to the imaginations of Sammy and Zack.
          It was a vast relief to finally find the dog, barking vociferously at the foot of a
            small Jack Oak tree, and they sat down close beside him, glad of his company and
            courageously resolving to stay there until daylight, when Mr. Raccoon would be an easy
            target for the old squirrel rifle. Prince understood and crouched at their feet. The
            need for voicing the fact of his find was no more, but he
            was keenly and constantly on the alert, nevertheless, to prevent the coon's
            giving them the slip.
          Wouldd aylight never come? Would the night never lift itself from the clinging woods
            and melt away into nothingness? What would they do if they should suddenly hear the
            snarl of a "painter" about to spring, and should catch the gleam of
            its fiery eyes from out the dark? At first, the boys had been too excited to get drowsy;
            now, as the excitement abated and the weirdness and mystery of the night crept around
            them, touched them, enfolded them, dominated them, craven fear took its place, combated
            sleepiness and conquered.
          "Sammy, do n't you believe in hants--really and truly?"
            asked Zack, in an awed whisper.
          "Nah! I should say I don't," replied Sammy, in a rather
            shaky voice, but with a vast assumption of well-grounded faith in what he said and of
            scouting ridicule of Zack's suggestion.
          "I've heard tell a passel o' times that there was hants in
            these here woods. Folks has seen 'em."
          "I don't believe it. Just lies. They wanted to make a sensation, or
            else they were so scared themselves that they saw creatures of the
            imagination," said Sammy, grandiloquently, though his heart was beating like a
            trip-hammer. "I do n't believe
            there's ary hant this side of Kingdom Come."
          " Folks do say these here woods is hanted by your pap's
            ghost," persisted Zack. "Heaps o' folks hereabouts have seen
            it, Sammy, an 'lowed it resembled your pap right smart. They've heerd
            strange noises, too, a passel o' times, an' seen lights
            a-flittin' about--maybe right here--oh, Gawd, Sammy," he broke off,
            suddenly; while his chubby, tow-crowned face went pale in the dark, "let
            's go back!"
          "'T was n't anything but dry leaves rustling,"
            protested Sammy, determined to stick it out, since he had come, until--well, until no
            mortal man could bear it longer. His heart had jumped, too, at the sound of the faint
            but unmistakable rustling of leaves, but he was not completely routed yet.
          "What made 'em rustle, Sammy?" quavered Zack.
          "I dunno, squirrel maybe, or a mouse, or a snake, or a stray cow--maybe the
            wind's getting up." He was valiantly striving to prop up his own
            courage.
          " Sounded like somebody walkin--there 't is agin," gasped
            the now demoralized Zack.
          " Ghosts do n't walk," said Sammy, trying to take comfort
            himself in the statement. "They just float through the air."
          
          "But I thought you did n't believe in 'em," cried
            Zack, completely terror-stricken. He had so depended upon Sammy's large and
            comfortable unbelief.
          " I meant, of course, if there were ghosts, which there aren't. I
            wish it was pap. I wouldn't be afraid of his ghost. Maybe he'd tell me
            where to find Hank Halstead. Maybe that's what he comes here for--if he
            comes--to tell somebody--"
          "Look at Prince@" interrupted Zack, hoarsely.
          The dog was moving restlessly; and now the sound of the rustling leaves was continuous
            and was coming nearer. Prince growled and his neck bristles stood up. He crept closer to
            the boys and there was a cowardly droop to his tail. How dark it was under the trees,
            and even where the moonlight filtered through the open spaces, it was the weird,
            shadowy, creepy light of a late and waning moon. Nearer and nearer came the sound. It
            seemed to be approaching them directly. Footsteps! The boys clutched each other in real
            terror. The dog's low growling became a whine of fear. Terror held them riveted
            to the spot. They would have run if they had not been too paralyzed with fright to think
            of it.
          " Your--pap--would n't hurt us, would he, Sammy?" quavered
            Zack, huskily. "Tell him who you are. It's Sammy, Mr.
            Goodman!" He tried to call the words aloud, but
            his voice died in a gasping gurgle of fear
          "Keep still, can't you?" cautioned Sammy, impatiently.
            "Didn't I tell you hants do n't walk?" He was
            afraid, too, deathly afraid, but not of the supernatural, now. It was an unearthly hour
            for human prowlers--he knew that by his own uncanny feeling of out-of-placeness--and it
            might bode no good for somebody. "Do n't you dast to speak out loud!
            Sh! Sh!" He put a quieting hand on Prince's head.
          Nearer--nearer--nearer--staight toward them came the rustling footsteps. The boys
            scarcely breathed. When perhaps twenty feet from the unsuspected Jack Oak, beneath which
            crouched and trembled two blanched-faced boys and a drooping-tailed dog, and in whose
            branches clung with a sharp and watchful eye and a beating heart the raccoon of their
            desire, the footsteps veered off and went toward the bank of Crooked Creek on the right.
            There was a clearing on the bank at this place and the ghostly moonlighy lay quiet upon
            the ground like a huge sheeted shape asleep. Into this patch of pale light, from out the
            encircling shadow, stepped a man. He crossed it and disappeared over the bank of the
            creek.
          There was a moment's breathless pause; then, without word, the boys rose up
            and ran. They ran with all the might they had and the dog
            followed them. When they were once more safely in bed with the covers pulled up, Zack
            asked Sammy a question.
          "Who was it, Sammy? Did you know him?"
          "Yes," said Sammy, in a strange quiet little voice, not whispering
            this time. "I knew him. It was Hank Halstead."
          " I 'lowed it were," said Zack.
          Meanwhile, the bright-eyed, wild thing in the Jack Oak tree slipped warily down and was
            safe.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VI
          ZACK BEGINS SEEING THE WORLD
          WHEN Zachariah Posey, in early June of '61, sauntered into
            Mrs. Goodman's kitchen, where that energetic lady was busily engaged in washing
            the breakfast dishes, he was the same simple-hearted, awkward, chubby, tow-headed,
            good-natured, easy-going young fellow that he had been in his coon hunting days. Also,
            he was still Sammy's faithful satellite. Sammy was at the State University and
            Herbert was in his last year at Rush Medical. How the dreams of the fatherless boys had
            thus come true was a tale of thrift and economy and self-denial.
          "Howdy Zack," said Mrs. Goodman, without taking her hands from the
            steaming pan.
          "Howdy Mis' Goodman," said Zack.
          "Have a chair. The girls are out feeding the chickens."
          "I 'low I hain't got time to set this mornin'. I
            heerd Smmy was comin' home right away an' I 'lowed
            I'd come over ter ask you about it. Is it true?"
          "Yes, he's coming tomorrow."
          "Well, I decar'! It'll sure be nice ter have him home ag'in won't it? Schoolin's a
            lonesome business, ain't it, Mis' Goodman? You goin' ter
            Lagoottee or air the girls goin'?"
          "Why, to tell the truth, Zack," said Mrs. Goodman, "I had
            planned on going myself. But it is hard for me to get away, there is so much to tend to
            with the boys gone, and the girls are no account at all left to do things alone, and yet
            I dislike to have them go alone to Lagoottee. I just happened to think, as you came in,
            why could n't you go?"
          "Why, I'd like ter go powerful well, Mis' Goodman. I
            hain't never been ter Lagoottee, but I 'low I kin find the
            way."
          "You can take the old carry-all, and the girls can go along for compny.
            You'll have to start real early in the morning, for it's twenty miles,
            and bad roads. The train gets in at about seven o'clock in the evening so you
            will have to stay all night and start back the next day. Sammy 'II show you
            where to go," concluded Mrs. Goodman, scrubbing the rough boards of her kitchen
            table vigorously.
          "I never saw a train o' keers in my life," said Zack, a
            far-away look in his eyes. "I 'low I' be purt' nigh
            skert ter death when they come a-rollin' in. I hain't seen much for a
            boy o' my age, have I?"
          " No you have n't, Zack, that's very true But you are about to make a good beginning and you'll
            likely see a great deal before you are through with life."
          "I 'low I will, if I go ter the war."
          "Why, Zack, you are n't thinking seriously of going,are
            you?" Mrs. Goodman laid down her scrubbing brush and turned to the boy, a look
            of surprise on her already lined but still attractive face.
          "I be," responded Zack, placidly. "Aleck Moses air
            a-gittin' up a company now over yander ter Jasper."
          "But you are n't old enough! You are only boy! War is for men, Zack,
            it's a man's game. Oh, surely, God will not ask it of the
            boys!"
          "I'm eighteen, an' so's Sammy," said Zack,
            with unruffled serenity. "I'd 've 'listed afore only
            I've been sort o' waitin' for Sammy. Do you 'low
            he'll jine, Mis' Goodman?"
          "If it is n't all over before he gets a chance, I suppose he
            will," replied Mrs. Goodman, shortly, returning to her work with a set face.
            "Sammy always was venturesome--and then he's all his life been carried
            away by that drunken old Carmichael's fool yarns--God forgive me for calling
            names now, but it's true. I suppose that's what's ailing you,
            too, Zack. Well, I should be some worried if I thought this war talk amounted to
            anything. I'm only hoping it will be over before
            you fool boys get to Jasper, and I'm thinking it will. Sammy can't go
            till harvest is over."
          "Why, Mis' Goodman," cried Zack, consternation in his voice.
            "You must please let him go before that! Why, I 'low we'd
            miss the whole shebang if we waited that long!"
          "But you would n't have to wait for Sammy, Zack. If you felt you
            ought to go, you could go, you know."
          " 'T would n't be no fun 'thout Sammy,"
            said Zack, simply.
          Mollie and Ama Jane had been to the town before and their facees were full of pride as
            they piloted their big, bashful, homespun friend around the little railroad village
            snuggling down among the gentle Indiana, hills, and they told him over and over again
            the little they knew, each striving to outdo the other in the telling.
          " That there's the store where Samnmy buyed me the candy,"
            cried Ama Jane, her big, dark blue eyes dancing again in mere remembrance of that
            glorious event which had lightened even the gloom of Sammy's going away to
            college. Ama Jane had a hero, and that hero was Sammy. She had long ago decided that the
            man she married must be like Sammy in every particular, even to the trying habit of
            pulling her small nose and then pretending he had it between his fingers when everybody knew it was only his thumb. "That
            there's the very place, Zack!" and she emphasized her information by a
            coy glance up into his face, rapt and awestruck by the sights of the town. But Mollie,
            being older and wiser and much, much more practical, knew that it was useless, for even
            if Zack had understood Ama Jane's longing and artless pleading, she realized
            that the chances of there being a penny in his pocket were very slight.
          "I think it is time to go to the depot," she said, tactfully, to save
            her friend from the embarrassment of a more direct asking. "We must
            n't be late. Whatever would Sammy think?"
          "Whereaway is the place where the keers come in at, Mollie?"
            questioned Zack, with a vague glance around and then above, as if he half expected that
            they might come shooting across the deep blue of the placid sky and that the filmy white
            clouds streaking it here and there might be the trail of smoke that they life
            behind.
          "I know," said Ama Jane, eagerly. "It's over
            thataway. That big house over there--see it, Zackie? That's it--that's
            the depot where Sammy'll get off at."
          " Oh, no, Ama Jane," said Mollie, gently. " I think Sammy
            said that was the hotel--the place where folks stay, you know, when they're
            traveling and haven't anywhere else to stay--no friends' or relations' houses to stop at. That's the depot
            over there, I think; that long, low building. Let's go there now."
          "That air one over yander ain't so big as the other one, though,
            Mollie," ventured Zack, more than half inclined to agree with the younger
            sister. "Mebbe Ama Jane's right. That air's a powerful big
            buildin'. Don't you 'low the keers would come in at the
            biggest place, Mollie?"
          "It does look bigger," said Mollie, unconvinced, "but the
            other one spreads out more, and then I seem to remember that we went down that way when
            we came with Sammy. Besides, I do n't see anything that looks like railroad
            tracks only down there."
          "Sure enough" agreed Zack, a little crestfallen that the place where
            the wonderful cars came in was not the biggest budding in town. Let's go there,
            then.
          And so the evening, the early evening of southern Indiana, with its low sun, its quiet,
            and its warm, dreamy atmosphere through which sound carried with singular distintness,
            found the little sisters of Sammy Goodman with their open-mouthed but stanch friend,
            Zack Posey, on the plank platform of the little station at Lagoottee, waiting for the
            first whistle of the wonderful, wonderful thing called a train. When it sounded, long
            and shrill, the warning signal found Zack utterly
            unprepared for it, after all. A palenes crept into his round, brown face. Fear shot into
            his big, light eyes.
          "Wha--what--was that?" he gasped, and, before his question could be
            answered, knew, and blushed for his unsophistication, but forgot it the next moment when
            he caught sight of a seething column of black smoke rising above the tops of the trees
            straight into the still evening air, but leaving a long, horizontal track in its wake.
            Mollie was not to be denied her opportunity, however.
          "Why, that's it," she said, importantly. "What did
            you think it was--a hant? You looked that scared, Zack!"
          But Zack did not hear, for at that moment the train itself rounded the curve and came
            speeding down the straight track towrad them. His chin dropped, his eyes widened, his
            arms hung loosely at his sides. This was Zachariah Posey's first step into the
            wider world of which every youth dreams. In the wonder of it all, he did not remember
            what he was standing there for, until a familiar hand was laid on his shoulder and a
            familiar voice cried, heartily:
          "Hello, there, Zack! What are you dreaming about?"
          'Why. howdy; I purt' nigh forgot you was comin', I got so
              interested in watchin' the keers come in. That air's quite a machine, Sammy. I wish I could
            take a ride on it. I 'low it would be powerful interestin'."
          "Well, when you go to the war, you'll get your chance, I reckon--for
            of course you're going, Zack?"
          "You bet I be. I've jist been a-waitin' for you ter git
            home. You know Aleck Moses is organizin' a company an' we kin jine
            right away."
          "But mam says Sammy can't go until after corn-shuckin'
            time," objected Mollie, the caretaker, gazing at her tall brother with adoring
            blue eyes. They were a blue-eyed race, the Goodmans.
          "Well, we'll decide that later," laughed Sammy.
            "Come, let us to the sign of the Buffalo Head and stay our stomachs without
            further delay. I'm hungry as a bear."
          Mollie looked at him in quiet and approving surprise. This was a new Sammy, this tall,
            well-dressed, new-speaking, laughing brother, home from the great University of the
            great State of Indiana, once thought of and talked of as but a fabled dream. Sammy was
            not so very well-dressed. At least, he was not considered as a specially good dresser
            among the students in Bloomington; but he wore store clothes now which shone quite
            resplendent beside Zack's homespun, and he had an
            easy way in them which made him appear much better dressed than he really was. He was
            clad like a king in the eyes of Mollie and Ama Jane.
          "That certainly is a right smart of a machine," said Zack, leaving
            the platform regretfully, in tow of Sammy. He looked back over his shoulder several
            times as they walked down the shaded street to which the early dusk had come.
            "It certainly is. I wonder how it feels ter ride in it. You've seen I
            lot o' the world, hain't you, Sammy?" coming back to earth
            with a wistful smile on his face.
          But Sammy, lying wide awake that night beside the slumbering Zack, in the quaint little
            hotel which had seemed so big to Zack and Ama Jane, thought, with his old sense of
            responsibility keen upon him, that he had seen very little and knew much less of the big
            world of which his year at the University had given him such a delicious and tantalizing
            glimpse. And now he must put aside all his dreams of it, all his hopes of it, to fight
            for it, that part of it which was native land. He was doing it with all a,
            boy's fierce patriotism, and yet, perhaps, he must lay down his life for it. At
            the University this last spring, his chief concern had been that he would not have an
            opportunity thus to lay down his life if necessity demanded--that if he failed to get to
            the front with the first compnies, his chance for glory,
            for self-sacrifice, for a martyr's death, would be lost him forever; for with
            others older and wiser and far more experienced in the ways of war than was he, he never
            doubted that one or two battles would settle the great controversy between North and
            South. He had been in a constant fever of anxiety to be off, for the worn old doors of
            the University to clang behind him, it might be for a brief summer, it might be forever.
            Anything, rather than that all should be over before ever he had had his chance.
          He was a member of the military company fathered by the University, and when war loomed
            inevitable and imminent on the college horizon, and a sudden quickening heart throb of
            realism was splashed into the dead placidity of hum-drum meaningless drill--just drill
            for drill's sake--his calm indifference had at once leapt into consuming ardor,
            and the once dull parade ground became strangely appealing, a place of absorbing
            interest, of a fever of effort at perfection. He had not been the only one so affected,
            by any means. The University was situated in a very hot-bed of copperheadism, adherents to which cult were sympathizers of the South, though
            when the time came, often lacking the superb physical courage or the moral grandeur to
            fight for it, and these kept the atmosphere of both town
            and college rife with feeling. Also, in the University, there were numbers of the real
            worth of that which afterward made up the personnel of the southern
            army, and these entered into the drill with the same fierce fervor which marked Sammy
            Goodman and many another boy of northern birth or northern sympathies and unafraid. So
            intense did the feeling become before the spring term was over, and so bitterly were the
            merits of the great world question fought over, it was little wonder young blood was
            keyed to such pitch that, when the first faint dawn of a morning in April disclosed the
            stars and bars of the first flag of the South as separate and distinct from the flag of
            the Republic floating over the University building, something snapped.
          There was little accomplished that day in the way of bookish lore. The time was given
            over almost entirely to hot charges and counter-charges, insult answering insult,
            finally fought out in many and many a personal encounter, fist to fist. It was never
            really known who the bold defiers of the neutrality of the University were, whether copperheads or actual students, but the boys of the South contested with
            fierce determination the efforts of the boys of the North to scale the lofty roof and
            haul down the haughty, flaunting colors which flapped triumphantly in the snappy April
            breeze all the live-long day, while the professors--Heaven
            rest their harrowed souls--did nothing. It was Sammy Goodman, who, just before
            sunset--Fort Sumter had just been fired upon and his blood was hot with
            resentment--lithe and sure-footed from his woods' training, scaled the sloping
            and dangerous roof and stood, pale and panting, beneath the rippling bars, as the rival
            reds in the western sky proclaimed the imminent setting of the sun.
          He looked an atom only of a man to his friends below, and their cheers came to him but
            faintly. But he did not need them now. He had needed them when the dangerous, difficult
            feat loomed lonely before him--Sammy always liked his world's applause--but
            that was all behind him now, forgotten in accomplishment. He was panting with the
            physical effort it had taken, pale with the emotion of his high determination to haul
            down those flaunting colors before the sun should set on the stain to his
            country's honor. Sammy was young, and the drills and the discussions and the
            hot partizanship had stirred his patriotism strangely, so that he thought in such
            sounding phrases. How he had eluded the watchfulness of the southern sympathizers, who,
            crestfallen and chagrined, were grouped below in the press of almost the entire student
            body, including a sprinkling of professorial dignity, might
            perhaps be laid to the litheness, the stealth, and the cunning which he had
            unconsciously imbibed from the wild woods creatures of his homespun boyhood. The word
            had gone forth among his friends to keep all eyes upon that despised flag at sunset.
            Hence, the crush of spectators, for the word had seeped into the enemy's camp
            as well. As has been said, Sammy always liked to have the eyes of his world upon him. It
            will be remembered that, when a boy and called upon from the pulpit, he wondered if Mary
            Ann Hamilton was not proud of his friendship. But he did not know that any one was
            looking when he cut the cord which had given the false fag to thebreze. He was as one
            inspired and he thought only of treason trampled upon, of honor triumphant.
          Tonight, as he turned on his hard, corn-shuck tick in the primitive little hotel at the
            primitive little village of Lagoottee, all that University life seemed very, very far
            away, and he had his first prescience that perhaps the coming strife would not be so
            soon over as the world thought. His chance had waited for him despite his fevered fear
            and impatience, but somehow, tonight, it seemed to stretch before him into vague
            distances where no end was sighted.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VII
          THE GHOST
          'AND now for the news," said Sammy, leaning back in
            the roomy seat with a certain sense of rest and luxuriousness after the tension of the
            last few months at the University, where indulgence in prejudice and passion had been
            quite as mentally wearing as delving into the wisdom of the sages. He was content to let
            Zack hold the lines; for the slow, clumsy, broad-backed, absolutely trustworthy, old
            work horses which had grown up in the Goodman stable were proved zest-killers in the
            manly art of driving. The start homeward had been an early one, and the June morning was
            fair and still.
          "The' ain't no news 'ceptin' what you know
            already, as I knows on. 'D up, there! What does possess you to be so low-down
            ornery, ol' Startle? Pap finally got that-air painter tat's, been
            hangin' round so long."
          "Do n't forget to tell Sammy about old man Carmichael," put
            in Mollie, from the back seat, leaning forward the better to see and admire the new,
            worldly, grown-up, easily tolerant look on Sammy's face. She could n't
            help liking that slightly amused, somewhat bored,
            altogether friendly, if condescending, manner he had assumed toward Zack since he had
            come back from the University--was it only last night--even though, in a way, it put her
            and Ama Jane and the busy mother and all their homely doings in the same class with
            Zack.
          "I ain't kakilatin' ter forget," said Zack, with
            dignity. Nor was he. In spite of his modest assertion that there was no news, to speak
            of, that which he had stored up to tell Sammy could not well be told in the twenty miles
            that lay before them. "O' course you know he got religion at the
            revival last winter?"
          "So Mollie wrote me."
          "Everybody did, for that matter. Brother Craik said it was the greatest
            outpourin' o' the Holy Spirit it had ever been his good fortune ter
            witness. Folks was powerful mournful for a right smart spell, realizin' the
            awful state o' sin they was in at. We did n't have no good times no
            more--an' we was so contented like before. Someway, I--but Sammy, how about
            your own self; have you got religion?"
          "I hope so," replied Sammy, smiling.
          "Any more than you had before you went away?"
          "Why, I hope I get more every day that I live. Is n't that the way it
            ought to be?"
          
          "Did you jine the church down there ter the University?"
          "No."
          "I 'low that's why you kin still laugh like you
            useter," said Zack with a relieved relaxation of his perturbed countenance.
            "I 'll stump you ter not. I'd purt' nigh ruther be
            lost once an' for all an' be done with it than ter be
            wonderin' every blessed minute if you're goin' ter be,
            an' weepin' an' wailin' over the likelihood of it,
            wouldn't you? I like ter be happy," he added, naively.
          "It's like war, I reckon," said the other boy, dreamily.
            "I wonder--do you suppose--I wonder if we shall have the fear of death with us
            all the time, Zack? That would be a thousand deaths in one, would n't it? If I
            thought I should not get the best of that fear, I should want to be killed in our first
            battle."
          "You kin jist bet I would, too," declared Zack, emphatically.
            " Well, as I was a-sayin', after a while, a many backslid, but not
            ol' Carmichael. Folks was always a-lookin' for him to, an' we
            was all mighty surprised when he kep' right on bein' straight--never
            drank a drop nor swore a swear as anybody hearn tell on--an' the women was
            n't a-feared ter have him come ter their houses no more, he was so nice-spoken
            an' said war was the greatest crime o' the ages an' forbid
            o' God, an' he kep' tellin' the boys never, never
            ter fight their fellow-men--it was wicked an' God
            would never forgive it nor forget it. So o' course, he wasv ery well liked
            o' all the women folks all of a sudden--with all this war talk in the
            air."
          "And once when mam asked him if God had forgiven him the lives he put out in
            his old War of 1812," piped up Ama Jane, exitedly, "he just up and
            cried, and said he was afraid not, but he was going to keep praying for forgiveness till
            they carried him to Shiloh graveyard; and then mam snapped up sharp that that would
            n't bring those boys back to their mothers and homes, and it was a pity foks
            did n't think of that beforehand and not be pluming themselves so much on their
            religion afterward. Ain't mam been converted, Sammy?"
          "There are some people, Baby, who don't need conversion, I think,
            because their feet have never strayed. Your mother is one of them. And what did
            Carmichael say to that, Zack?"
          "Why, he cried some more an' said anyway he'd haft ter jist
            keep on a-prayin',that was his only hope."
          "Good for old Carmichael," said Sammy, good-natredly, trying to make
            a mental picture of his good-hearted, profane, old friend on the anxious seat. Something
            must have been wrong with his execution, however, for the picture wouldn't
            make. Always, he saw the twinkle behind the lugubrious
            countenance depicted by Zack's graphic recital; always, he heard complacent
            braggadocio and picturesque profanity through the sounds of penitent tears and fearful
            lamentation. Therefore, he was not surprised at Zack's next words.
          "An' Mollie never wrote you 'bout his backslidin'?
            I 'low she thought you'd be ashamed of it--you always did stand up so
            for the ol' whiskey barrel. Well, the church is shet o' him at last,
            an' I 'low they're right glad. We was over ter the
            settlement, pap an' I, when the word was brought. He was haranguin' a
            crowd o' us fellers for talkin' of enlisting, an'
            pintin' out the errors of our ways, an' he cried some, too. He was an
            ol' man, an' you must n't hold that agin him. He stopped dead
            off when the word come, an' the queerest look come over his face kind
            o' like that funny light jist before a thunder storm, you know. I was plumb
            skeert."
          "What word, Zack? What in the world are you talking about?" cried
            Sammy, perplexed by the ambiguity of Zack's narrative as well as by his unusual
            loquacity.
          "Why, the firin' on Fort Sumter, o' course,"
            explained Zack, perplexed in his turn by Sammy's most unusual obtuseness.
            "Purty soon he begun. The first words was kind o' mumblin',
            like he did n't sense jist where he was at
            an' was feelin' round. Then one fairly bust from him like a--like a
            cannon ball an'--"
          "One what?" demanded Sammy, impatiently.
          "One damn," replied Zack, simply. "An' then they
            followed so thick an' fast that I could n't keep up. He jist ripped
            'em out o' his throat like as they was chokin' him. How he
            did swear, Sammy! I declare, it makes me creepy even yit, thinkin'
            'bout'n it. I took time, howsomever, ter be thankful there was
            n't no women folks around. Purty soon, when he had swored himself black in the
            face, he made a bee line for Dave's place are he's been drunk ever
            since till--"
          "Oh, he reformed again, did he, the old reprobate?"
          "No, he did n't, Sammy."
          "Oh, he did n't? What are Brother Craik and the other brothers and
            sisters doing about it then?"
          "Nothin'now. They tried to, but he got ahead of 'em
            agin."
          "How?"
          "He died night afore last."
          Then it was that Sammy's picture of the rough old fighter made itself and
            truly, without help from him, before his inner vision--the life of many a pioneer
            fireside, the teller of many a good tale, an exponent of patriotism, a friend of chil-
              dren, a kindly heart. There had been much that was sinful
            in his life, but it was the memory of those other things that lingered longest with
            Sammy and the other boys of the backwoods.
          Sammy's mind was still dwelling upon the suddenness and sadness of his old
            friend's death, when Zack continued his narration of events, too full of all
            the things he had to impart to allow Samm the luxuy of mournful contemplation. There
            were all the things which had happened since the Christmas holidays, and much happens in
            the out of the way places of the earth, even as in the crowded centers. Old men die, and
            babies are born, there is much of toil for all, and sorrow, happily balanced with much
            of content and joy. Nor is war a respecter of persons or localities. Its clouds are
            generated in all the dark places of human error, they draw together, and the muttering
            of their assembling is heard in the secluded by-ways as well as in the busy
            thoroughfares of the land. In what way, then, was Dubois County so different from
            Sammy's great University, or the still greater places of the world?
          "That air hant over ter Hank Halstead's has been gittin'
            powerful lively since you left. Seems like he appears most every night
            now."
          "Mollie wrote me he had been cutting up high jinks lately. I suppose you
            superstitious ones still think he is--my father's spirit?"
          
          "Superstitious nothin'! Course I do n't know whether
            it's your pap ornot, but it looks mighty like it ter me. There's been
            mighty strange things goin' on over yander ter that ol' house
            an' on the creek bottom where your pap was murdered. You always did laugh at
            hants an' sich, an' I 'low you 're
            a-laughin' this very minute, but you need n't, 'cause I seed
            this one with my own eyes."
          "Good! And what did it look like? Tell me quick! I am consumed with
            curiosity."
          "It was a ghost light. It came an' went an' at last it
            floated right off through the air, taller 'n any man that was ever born. I wish
            they'd ketch Hank. I don't like hants. Mebbe if he was ketched, the
            spirit would rest quiet in its grave."
          "There is nothing in it, Zack," said Sammy. I do n't doubt
            that you saw a light and that there have been strange noises heard. You say so,
            therefore it is true. But, take my word for it, there is some other use for those sights
            and sounds, some reason within the realms of possibility. I shall investigate when I get
            home."
          "Better leave it alone, Sammy."
          One of the very first things I shall do will be to ferret out the meaning of all this
            mummery, and what is more, Zack, old boy, you will go with me when I
            do it."
          "Don't ever think it, Sammy Goodman! I'll never go with you, ner with nobody. I' follow you in battle
            right up to the last an' git kilt if I haft ter. They'd be jist men
            like us that would be killin' us. But I can't abide hants.
            I'm a-feared of "em. You do n't know what they air or what
            they want. I'll never go over ter Hank's after
            candle-lightin' time as long as I live, an' you need n't
            count on it, nuther."
          Sammy Goodman only smiled.
          The attainment of two objects, both of absorbing interest, engrossed Sammy's
            attention now that at last he was home again and free from the exacting routine and the
            restraints of University life, so irritating when war was on the wing and one so longed
            to be up and preparing for the impact. The first one was his enlistment. He lost no time
            in looking up the best opportuity to enlist in the volunteer service. As Zack had said,
            Captain Aleck Moses was organizing a company at Jasper, but it would be some time before
            the organization would be completed and the company ready to march. Chafing at the idea
            of further delay, fearful of victory, a cessation of hostilities, and peace before ever
            he could get to the front, he decided to join a company in an adjoining county, which
            would soon be ready to leave for Indianapolis, the centralizing point. Its captain had
            been a schoolmate of Sammy's, had belonged to the same military organization,
            and had taken note that Sammy, already known as the
            backwoods scholar, was well up in the manual of arms. Because of this and because they
            were friends besides, he had Sammy elected first lieutenant. As a matter of course, Zack
            enlisted in the same company as a private, and was much, much prouder of
            Sammy's commission than was that officer himself.
          That matter satisfactorily disposed of gave Sammy time to probe into the question of
            the ghost at the Hank Halstead place. He soon learned that it was the principal topic of
            conversation in the neighborhood. The house had stood empty since the day of the murder.
            Hank's brother, father of the young Bob of bat-slugging fame, had worked the
            place every year, but the house itself had remained vacant. For some time, peculiar
            lights had been seen and uncanny sounds heard about the old place, around the house and
            in the adjoining woods. There were people who even claimed to have seen a white-robed
            figure waving a skeleton hand. All this was of special interest to Sammy because of the
            foolish ones and superstitious, who believed, and spread the belief, that the so-called
            "hant" was the ghost of Gerry Goodman, who could not rest quietly in
            his grave until his murderer had been brought to merited justice.
          When Sammy had made known his conviction that the man
            whom he and Zack had seen more than four years ago when they watched beside a
            tree'd coon was none other than Hank Halstead himself, diligent search had been
            made around the premises; but when no trace of the fugitive could be found, no sign of
            human presence or late occupancy of the house, when their efforts were only met with a
            profounder silence, a deeper mystery, then, more than ever, did the folk of the neigh-
            borhood harbor the belief that the place was haunted, and that the boys had really seen
            the ghost itself. In vain, Sammy, in the daytime, when his reason was in the ascendancy,
            raged against the imputation, and urged with feverish impatience more search and yet
            more. His experience in the woods that night served only to strengthen the hold of the
            ghost in the minds of his neighbors.
          The longed-for time had now come when he was determined to lay to rest once and for all
            time the prevalent idea that his father's spirit was wandering unhappily upon
            the earth, haunting the place where he had so foully met his death, seeking the rest
            that would not come until his murderer suffer the penalty of his crime. In addition to
            his desire effectually to put a stop to the gossip, Sammy firmly believed that Hank
            Halstead was at the bottom of all this new ghost business, and his hands fairly ached to
            have the man in his clutches. He would solve the mystery
            before time to join his company if he had to brave the unknown terrors of the haunted
            house alone, and he would stay by them every night until they revealed themselves; but
            he still counted on Zack, and, in the end, Zack was not proof against the compliment
            implied in the expectation, especially after Sammy had reiterated a solemn promise that
            he would take the initiative in everything, and always go ahead.
          "As it would seem that our friend, the ghost, has chosen the mysterious hour
            of midnight for shoving his shopworn demonstrations upon a too credulous
            world," said Sammy, "we, also, will haunt that hour, Zachariah Posey;
            one night, I, and the next, you. Oh, I don't mean for a minute that you are to
            go there alone--do n't look so obstinately appalled. What I do mean is this:
            Mother says that even she has seen and heard very strange things over there. Now, as we
            are the closest to Hank's place, I propose that right here we set our watch.
            Tonight, I will sit by the attic window till well past midnight--tomorrow, you, and so
            on until there are developments, or until we are ordered to Indianapolis. At the very
            first sign of activity on the part of his ghostship, we will both start out on a tour of
            investigation."
          So it was agreed. Several nights thus passed away without
            any developments of a startling nature. Even Zack began to lose faith in ghosts, while
            the growing belief pressed home to Sammy, in his youthful egotism, that the masquerader
            was afraid because of the presence of his victim's son, and had decided to
            postpone further demonstrations until Sammy's marching orders came to make safe
            once more the parade of the "hant's" unholy practices.
          And now marching orders had come, and the last night at home, and it was
            Zack's watch. Sammy went to bed more disappointed than he could have imagined
            possible on the eve of at last actually going to the war. He fell asleep, however,
            consoling himself with the reflection that Mollie would write if the ghost renewed
            activities after his departure, and, if he did, woe to him, for Sammy would obtain an
            early leave of absence and would slip home without the knowledge of anyone, and surprise
            the ghost at his tricks at the very moment when he deemed himself most immune from
            danger. All the household slept at last, worn out with thoughts of the desolation of the
            morrow, when two homespun boys would go marching away, blithely, never to come back
            again; for if they were spared the martyr's death, saddened men would come
            sorrowfully home, leaving their buoyant youth on the bloody fields where so many of their comrades must lay down their all. Zck alone was
            awake in all the quiet, solemn place, sitting in the unlighted attic, close to the tiny
            window, looking out upon the clear, star-lit, midnight sky, and the dark, still,
            mysterious woods, listening to Sammy's regular breathing, awe-struck with the
            deep silence of the serene night and the vague but poignant consciousness of the gravity
            of the morrow's venture. Time dragged slowly away, and Zack's eyes
            began to grow heavy with sleep. And then he saw it--the ghost light. He sat up straight
            and rubbed his eyes to make sure. He had been growing skeptical of late, and he thought
            he might have dozed off and seen the glancing light in a dream. No, there it was,
            floating about in the timber across Crooked Creek. All his old blind fear and the
            shivering impulse to run and hide came over the simple lad with redoubled force.
          "Sammy, Sammy," he whispered, hoarsely, groping his way over to the
            bed, "it's there, the hant! I seed it. Wake up, for God's
            sake!"
          "Oh, so his ghostship is abroad at last, is he?" cried Sammy,
            springing out of bed and running to the window. "For heaven's sake,
            Zack, what are you doing?"
          "It's the hant, I tell you!" cried Zack, in a muffled,
            terror-stricken voice, burrowing farther into the depths of the feather tick.
          
          "So I see," said Sammy, in a stern, determined voice, inwardly
            bracing himself for the coming encounter with the supposedly supernatural. His face was
            pale as he began hastily to draw on his clothes, but it was more on account of the
            solemn thought that he was about to come face to face with his father's
            murderer than from any fear of the occult, and, luckily, Zack could not see it in the
            dark of the attic chamber. "Get out of bed this minute, Zachariah Posey! We
            have n't a moment to lose!"
          "But--Sammy," came in wavering, tones from the fluffy mass of
            feathers, "I tell you it's the hant! Don't you think human
            beings had orter let hant things alone? I'm powerful 'fraid
            something'll happen so's we can't go ter the war
            termorrer."
          But Sammy was adamant against even this appeal.
          "Then it'll have to happen," he said, decidedly,
            "for we are going to run down the ghost business this very night--war or no
            war. I reckon there'll be plenty other fellows glad to take our places. You
            promised, Zack."
          "An' I was right smart of a idjit for doing' it,
            too," said Zack, plaintively, crawling slowly out of bed.
            "Seein's you're so all-fired smart at rememberin'
            promises, do n't you go ter forgittin' yours."
          
          "To go ahead? I sha' n't forget. Come on,
            Zack!"
          "You see," said Sammy, in a low tone, as they struck into the creek
            path, "I believe from the bottom of my soul that the ghost is Hank himself, and
            that he is using this method to intimidate people so that they will avoid his place,
            especially at night, and allow him to walk about without being seen."
          "I can't see for the life o' me what he'd want ter
            hang around for when he can't live there openly an' in
            daylight," said Zack, unbelievingly.
          "It's his home, you know, and nobody ever goes there any more, just
            on account of these ghost-shines. Who knows but that he may spend the greater part of
            his time right there at home?"
          "Well, you kin believe what you're a mind to," responded
            Zack, "but I believe it's a shore 'nough hant an' it
            'pears ter me it's right smart presumptious on our part ter dast ter
            interfere with his wanderings. He knows his own business, I 'low."
          All this time, the light danced ahead of them, moving deeper and deeper into the dark
            blur of the forest, and always toward Hank Halstead's place. When the boys came
            into the clearing around the house, the light had disappeared. It was well past midnight and an eerie silence rested upon the deserted
            premises. There was an empty, desolate look about the cabin with its sagging door and
            rotting stoop, and the path was weed-choked. Zack shivered with premonitory dread, and
            even Sammy hesitated for a hardly perceptible moment, then he whispered, resolutely:
          "I am going in, Zack. You must be ready for a scrap if it should prove to be
            Hank, for he will fight like the devil before he will be taken."
          "Law me, do n't tell me you air really goin' inter that
            house knowin' there's a hant in there!" cried Zack, his teeth
            chattering uncontrollably.
          " I certainly am," replied Sammy, pushing open the door as he spoke,
            and, at the same time, striking a match and lighting his lantern. They stepped inside,
            Sammy well in the lead, and were greeted by an empty room and a damp, musty smell that
            clings to disused houses, and they felt the clamminess of the heavy air, betokening a
            long absence of the sunshine. The dull glimmer of their lantern was too feeble to
            penetrate to the farthest corners, and these remained in shadow. The boys stood
            motionless for some time. The only sound to be heard was Zack's teeth which
            would occasionally chatter.
          Sammy had just concluded to advance and investigate further, when a faint sound as of
            some one stepping softly over the floor came from the
            adjoining room. The boys gazed intently at the closed door separating the two rooms,
            Sammy in grim determination, Zack in a paralysis of fright. Presently, there was a
            slight, creaking noise, and a streak of light appeared as if the door had been set ajar
            and there was a light in the room beyond. Suddenly, it went out, the door opened wide,
            and there glided into the shadowy apartment a most uncanny, ghostly figure, draped all
            in white, and from whose eyes and nose and mouth glowed steady points of unearthly fire.
            It stood motionless for a few moments and then slowly stretched forth a hand on which
            there was no flesh whatsoever--skeleton hand--and pointed it solemnly at the terrified
            young men. Zack gave one gasp for breath and bolted for the door. Sammy had need now of
            ahis skepticism. In spite of himself, a great dread of the supernatural crept over him.
            The weird hour, the eerie silence, the unfriendly dark, the awful shine of the bluish
            light now shooting forth from eyes, mouth, and nostrils, combined to render him so weak
            with fear that he stood rooted to the spot, without motion and without speech. With a
            supreme effort, however, he rallied his reason to the rescue, drew from its holster the
            large revolver which he had recently purchased to take to the army with him, and, pointing it squarely at the seeming visitor from
            another world, cried out with a right gallant courage:
          "Throw off those ghost trappings and tell me who you are, or I'll
            shoot you where you stand!"
          The apparition seemed to waver a moment as if undecided whether to float off into space
            or to fade away into nothingness on the spot. Its garments exuded a damp, unpleasant
            odor as of mildew, suggestive of graveyards, and clung closely to the attenuated figure.
            And then, suddenly, there was only space where the ghost had stood. Only the same damp,
            empty room with its shadowy corners and the dim light from the lantern flickering upon
            the walls greeted Sammy's astonished eyes. Was he dreaming? Had he been walking
            in his sleep, and had dreamed that meeting with the ghost, and had but just now
            awakened?
          The outer door of the old building had been left open, the night breeze had risen, and
            now, floating in, caused the dull flame of the lantern to dance fantastically. For a
            moment, Sammy was seized with an almost uncontrollable impulse to follow Zack, but
            memory came to him swiftly of a flutter of garments followed by the sound of a softly
            closing door. Quick as the retreat had been, this was evidence enough that the ghost had
            not vanished into the air or through 
            
              A most uncanny, ghostly figure, draped all in white
            the thick walls as is the way of spirits. He
            sprang to the door, only to find that it had been bolted on the other side. With a few
            vigorous kicks, he broke in the door. Snatching op the lantern, he pushed his way
            through. This second room was empty also. It had no other outlet except the shattered
            door through which he had just come.
          There was no outside door to be seen, no sign of a trap door on floor or ceiling. There
            was one small window, to be sure, but it was nailed down from the inside. The room was
            unfurnished as the first one had been and cobwebs clustered thickly about and
            hung'in long, dusty threads from the rough ceiling. Sammy swung his lantern
            into every dim corner and over all the bare, roughly plastered, log walls with their
            marred and discolored but rather pretentious wainscoting in search of a possible exit,
            made the same careful survey outside the cabin hoping to discover hint here of a secret
            opening which had been more cleverly concealed within. All to no avail. And then his
            hair began slowly to rise and an icy chill struck to his heart. In sheer, baffled
            bewilderment, he hastened from the haunted house with its mystery still unsolved,
            leaving it in the keeping of the night and the silence, with the wind sighing in the
            treetops, and the wan stars of that ghostly hour before the dawn seeming to mock human presumption and human impotency in the face of the
            unknown.
          At the creek, Zack peered cautiously forth from the protection of a giant oak.
          "That you, Sammy?" he whispered.
          "No doubt about it, Zack. It is I, and in the flesh, too, strange as that may
            seem."
          Once more in the attic bedroom, Zack found voice to say in a tone of terrified
            triumph:
          "What do you think about hants now?"
          "Just what I have always thought," replied Sammy, rather shortly.
            "The ghost was a man, of course. What knocks me all out is the fact that it was
            n't Hank after all. He was too short and too thin. Who was it, Zachariah
            Posey?"
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VIII
          THE BROKEN-DISH QUILT
          "BUT, Zack," exclaimed Samy in a dismayed
            undertone, because mother and sisters of both were hovering very near, and it would
            never do to hurt feelings already strained almost to the breaking point, where smiles
            were sadder than tears, and the little pauses in the voice more heart-broken than a
            storm of sobs, " I am sure you won't need those boots. You have
            already stowed away one extra pair, and they'll get most mighty dadsizzling
            heavy and bunglesome on the march through rain and mud. You know we can't
            expect fair weather all the time. The Government will furnish you with army boots as you
            need them. Better leave these behind--that's my advice. As I've told
            you a hundred times, the less we have to encumber ourselves with, the better off we
            shall be."
          "Can't" said Zack, doggedly, mopping his round, heated face
            with much soiled red handkerchief, and sitting down despondently upon the heterogenous
            heap of clothing, bedding, cooking utensils and other household goods, piled up in such
            extravagant profusion as the poor, unsophisticated lad had
            never known in all his life before. The shiftless Poseys had done what they could to
            swell the heap, and Mrs. Goodman and other neighbors had done the rest. "Pap
            sold his new gun ter git 'em--these here an' some other things that I
            don't need no more'n a rabbit. Land only knows what they'Il
            do for game now, 'specially 'gin winter comes, if we ain't
            back yit. Pap's ol' gun wouldn't hit a cow six feet away. I
            declare ter goodness I wisht he had n't a-done it. But I jist haft ter take
            'em, Sammy. The folks was right smart hurted 'bout'n the
            feather tick an' the rocking cheer an' the cook stove. Mam said the
            stove was so little it could be right easy toted 'round, an' she cried
            'bout'n the tick. She 'lowed I'd take passel
            o' cold every night sleepin' out right on the ground thataway.
            An' I purt' nigh had ter give in 'bout'n the cheer.
            I could n't a held out agin her only I knew how youd laugh. Mam said it would
            rest me so ter rock after fighting' all day."
          "I thought I had a mother where she understood that we simply can't
            take everything," said Sammy, shaking his head dubiously over the motley array
            on the ground, "but I see she has smuggled in some of my favorite books in
            spite of me--all wrapped up in new shirts. However, she is n't a
            patchin' to the neighbors. Mrs. Hobbs has been in
            and out all morning with pies and cookies and salt-risin' bread and chair
            tidies. She says she knows the Government won't give us anything fit to eat. I
            declare if there is n't Aunt Salina Haskins! The old lady's a brick.
            She has never held it against me--the trouncing I gave her blessed grandson, Bob
            Halstead. I wonder what in creation she's brought? We'll simply have
            to tell her, Zack, that we can't stow away another thing."
          A little, wiry, old lady with pretty, wavy gray hair and quick, nerous movements, came
            bustling around the corner of the house, knitting away energetically, so accustomed to
            the task that she seldom turned her bright eyes with their steel-bowed spectacles toward
            it. She was aunt by courtesy to all the neighborhood, mother and grandmother to a
            numerous progeny, and homeless except for a corner by the fireplace in the humble homes
            of any and all of her sons and daughters. She went
            "a-visitin'" by the day, and was as welcome as the flowers in
            May. To be sure, she talked incessantly, but that was more often an advantage to her
            hostesses than otherwise. Such an inveterate visitor as she was of necessity gathered
            much gossip, the inevitable dispensing of which was as good as a modern rural free
            delivery, and served the double purpose of keeping the busy housewives conversant with the news of the day without their taking the time or
            the trouble for the perusal of the written word. They worked while Aunt Salina talked.
            On visiting days, she rode when a horse could be spared, and walked when it could not.
            This was a walking day as was clearly evinced by the damp curliness of the hair around
            her forehead, the flush of exertion on her lined, humorous face, and the mantle of fine
            yellow dust on her shoes and in the folds of her dark linsey woolsey gown and neat white
            apron.
          "Mis' Goodman said you boys was out here in the back
            finishin' up your packin'," she said, knitting assiduously.
            "Tarnation hot, ain't it?" She tossed a brown sunbonnet under
            a shady locust tree. "Right glad to be shet o' that hot ol'
            thing I be, I kin tell you. Had to walk over--critters was all in the
            fiel'--all right, too, I 'low, seein's it give me a chanct to
            keep to work on these here socks. I'm almost through now. I've tuned
            the last heel. I never could knit and drive at the same time. Them pesky critters
            o' Jake's and Serepty's air so powerful contrary they shy at
            a grasshopper, and I simply got to finish these here socks, Sammy. They're
            your'n. I got Zack's all done They're here in my pocket.
            Susie stuck a posey in 'em. It does beat all how silly girls gits over sogers
            and uniforms, Here's Susie not turned seventeen
            yit draggin' round the house pale and no 'count and sniffiin'
            in corners jist cause Zack here's goin' to the war, when land knows
            she would n't look at him before, and that's no dispar'gemunt
            to you, either, Zack. Susie's jist plumb foolish, if I do say so who
            shouldn't, seein's how she's my own granddaughter, and I
            dunno as I blame her much. Sogers air sogers and they ain't to be picked up
            every day, and they do git kilt sometimes, that's a fact.
          "Jake and Bob ain't kakilatin' none on goin', the
            Halsteads never were strong on niggers, so Susie feels that romantic over having ketched
            a soger sweetheart that she's fair livin' in the clouds these days. I
            'low you boys 'll wear out a right smart o' socks, and as I
            aint a-lookin' for the Government to enter into no contract to keep
            'em darned, I 'lowed you could n't have too many. I wanted to
            give you something, it 'll be such a comfort to a body to remember if you never
            come back. I've been knittin' stiddy ever sense I hearn tell you had
            jined that-air company that was goin' so soon. Mis' Goodman said you
            was 'bout ready to start. Why, I want to know, if there ain't Mollie
            right this minute a-hitchin' up--good land o' live, and me not done
            yit! I'll set right down here in the shade and finish--'t
            won't take long--and I hain't ary a thing to take me home. You
            won't mind waitin' will you, Sammy? I
            'low the Government'll keep you long enough from your ma once they git
            their hands on you, without your hurryin' away from her now.
          "Oh, yes, I purt' nigh forgot to tell you, I pieced you a quilt. I
            packed it over myself to give to your ma to put with your other things. It's
            the Broken-dish pattern, kind o' 'propriate to the occasion, you know,
            broken hearts and homes and everything. It's for both o' you. I did
            n't have time to piece two, and o' course you'll sleep
            together all the time--goin' from the same place like you air and always was
            thicker 'n peas in a pod anyway--so one's a plenty for you both, and
            do n't quarrel over it whatever you do. I made it impartial--as much
            Zack's as Sammy's, as much Sammy's as
            Zack's."
          "Why, Aunt Salina, it was awfully good of you to remember us so handsomely and
            to carry the things over yourself through the hot sun." began Sammy, thinking
            ruefully of all the quilts and comfortables and blankets and countless other things
            which would in all probability get no farther than Indianapolis, if, indeed, they got so
            far as that. But he was touched by the attention, and found it impossible to hurt the
            kindly old lady's feelings by a refusal of the gifts so laboriously contrived
            from her meager resources.
          "But we air plumb full to runnin' over now, Aunt Salina," put in Zack, mindful of Sammy's
            admonition, and resolved to throw himself into the breach in order to square himself on
            sundry other counts in which he had weakly allowed himself to be won over by his tearful
            and insistent womenfolks against Sammy's freely given advice and his own better
            judgment.
          "So we are," cut in Sammy, hastily, turning away from Zack's
            astonished stare, "but we certainly will find room for Aunt Salina's
            presents--especially considering how useful they will be. We'll leave out
            something else if we have to--we have n't room for gimcracks, that's a
            fact--but quilts and socks--why, we'll need 'em every day, Aunt
            Salina, and we'll bless you every time we crawl under that Broken Dish or pull
            the socks over our tired feet."
          "I hope you will," said Aunt Salina, complacently, beginning to
            narrow for the toe. "That's the kind o' presents I like to
            give--useful ones. I know you boys won't git no more home comforts in a hurry,
            and I'll like to think o' you, mebbe cold and wet and wored out with
            the battle, creepin' into your tent some rainy night and bein' warmed
            and comforted by these pore little things your ol' Aunt Salina made for you.
            They're not much, I know, but if they warm you jist one when you're
            cold, I'm more than paid."
          
          For the first time that day--the great day--the day when he was going to the war--tears
            smarted in Sammy's eyes, why, he could not have told. But in the after time,
            through the smoke of battle, by the faint glow of a dying camp fire, on weary marches,
            in countless homesick longings, this picture came to him many times: the little dusty
            old woman talking and rocking and knitting under the shade of the old locust tree; his
            mother going in and out of the cabin door, continually thinking of some last thing to be
            packed for the comfort or convenience of the soldier boys; Zack's father and
            mother wandering aimlessly about helplessly allowing the direction of affairs to the
            stronger head; the tow-headed, dirty-faced, half-clad little brothers and sisters of
            Zack racing noisily and unchecked all around the premises; Ama Jane sitting on the back
            stoop in everybody's way, busily conning her lesson in which she had received
            careful instruction from brother Sammy earlier in the morning--Samuel Edward Goodman,
            First Lieutenant, Company E, Eighteenth Indiana Regiment-Ssmuel Edward Goodman, First
            Lieutenant, Company E, Eighteenth Indiana Regiment; Mollie, the care-taker, in the ample
            carry-all driving up the big work horses; Mrs. Hobbs, their nearest neighbor, skurrying
            down the dusty road on some last suddenly remem- bered
            errand--more chair tidies, maybe; the distant, restful green of the majestic beeches and
            sycamores and oaks which marked the garden spot of Shiloh Cemetery--the God's
            Acre where his father lay sleeping--and the nearer, darker, more sinister shade of the
            place where a ghost walked by night; and over all--wth Zack and himself the center of it
            all--the soft, warm, drowsy sunshine, the blue, white-capped summer sky, with droning
            bees and gay butterflies flitting from luxuriant trumpet-vine to fragrant honeysuckle,
            and from thence to a sweet wild timber rosebush, and so the rounds again. And this was
            home--and peace.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER IX
          THE ARMY OF THE SOUTHWEST
          IT WAS the fore part of Februry, 1862, and the Army of the Southwest
            had reached the Osage River on its third expedition against Price, who was still
            maintaining the fiction that he was commanding state troops only, to "repel
            invasion," although it was very well known in Missouri that, not only was he a
            Secessionist at heart, as was the man who put him in power, Governor
            "Claib" Jackson, but that his whole ambition was bent upon bringing
            into the Confederate service a full division of Missouri troops, the price of the
            Major-Generalship in the Confederate army, promised him by Jefferson Davis, though not
            with the best grace in the world, and for which his soul hungered. Twice before had the
            eager soldiers marched the many weary miles from the Union bases at Sedalia and Rolla to
            Springfield. The marching back and forth had been over a rough country and in inclement
            weather. Each time the forward movement was made, the men felt that they were about to
            strike a decisive blow for their country, and, for that reason, there was little or no
            complaint at the awful hardships they were compelled
            constantly to endure.
          Twice, without understanding the why or the wherefore, ordered back to the railroad at
            the very moment when their young volunteer hearts were beating high with hope of battle,
            they yet entered into this third movement against the elusive Price with almost the same
            ardent enthusiasm and glowing confidence in their power to put down the rebellion, for
            which purpose they had enlisted, as soon as ever the opportunity to fight was given
            them, as had characterized their attitude toward the first expedition. Most of these
            young men were northern born and chafed under the mere thought of being unduly delayed
            or defeated in their fierce desire for immediate action by the condition of the winter
            roads, which were, in truth, the worst Missouri, a state of bad roads at best, had seen
            for many years.
          Winter time had always been work time in their northern homes and they were impatient
            of the enforced idleness and of the "shiftless" southern way of
            waiting for fairer weather and better highways. What was mud, even worlds of it,
            menacing wagon trains, and coldly and stickily vengeful toward infantry and cavalry as
            well as artillery for this insolent invasion of its habitual winter solitude; or what
            were storms of rain and sleet and snow that they should so mis- takenly think to halt the progress of the great Army of the
            Southwest, hastening to crush the enemies of the Government and to close the war so that
            it might be at home in time for the spring plowing? Turbulent, icy, bank-full streams
            were forded with unremitting zeal, wagons pried out of quagmires or hauled up steep
            hills with complacent good-humor--because the hour was come!
          General Curtis, recently assigned by General Halleck, the new Commander of the
            Department of the West, to the command of the Army of the Southwest, was even then at
            Lebanon, his first base, waiting for his main army to come up--and it cas
              coming! For, "Dadsizzle the roads!" said Sammy Goodman, under
            his breath, and regardless of the irremediable stains to his uniform because of the
            gladness within him, "Hold back the old Eighteenth? I guess not!" And,
            "Darn the mud!" cried Zachariah Posey, aloud, hauling a boot out of
            the depths of it, vigorously, so not to lose his place in the march, "If ye
            think ter stop the ol' Eighteenth Injiana with sich low-down, ornery tricks as
            that air, I 'low you're barkin' up the wrong tree."
            And of like fibre was the sentiment of all those gallant volunteers hastening to join
            Curtis for his campaign against Sterling Price.
          The morning after going into camp, Sammy found Zack in
            his tent laboriously engaged in writing a letter. The sheet of paper was spread before
            him on a hard-tack box, and he was sprawling over the whole, his face, from which
            perspiration dripped profusely, though the February wind was keen, very close indeed to
            the wavering script. Zack's education had not progressed far since that long
            ago day when he had dared to choose little Mary Ann Hamilton to support him in the
            spelling match rather than that youthful, intellectual giant, Sammy Goodman. There was
            no doubt that writing a letter, although it might be a labor of love, was, nevertheless,
            for Zachariah Posey, a labor. At the top of the sheet was pictured a huge red cannon
            belching forth volumes of crimson smoke.
          " It fairly booms," said Sammy, stepping up to the box at which Zack
            was sitting. "Whom on earth are you writing to on that noisy paper, Zack? You
            must be trying to make your correspondent think we are in the thick of bloody warfare so
            that he--or she--will thrill for you. Such make-believe is rank deception, Zackie, my
            boy, in other words, it's plain lying and I ought not to countenance it. Ugh!
            Cannon! We have n't so much as heard the faintest echo of so much as a pop gun
            or a Fourth of July torpedo,since the skirmish at Black Water. If this is war, give me peace every time. I might at least get some
            excitement out of fighting the ghost."
          "Writin' ter Susie Hastead, who d'you suppose? You
            ain't got no call ter call this here paper loud. It's the purtiest
            I've seed sense I jined the army. Soon's I seed it at the
            sutler's, I got some, you bet."
          " Well, I hope Susie will like it."
          "An' why should n't she like it?" cried Zack, in
            some exasperation at Sammy's plainly implied criticism of his taste.
            "All of six girls was mighty perticular ter ast me ter write ter 'em
            when I got ter the front, an' I ain't writ ter ary one
            'ceptin' jist Susie. I 'low that'll please her some?
            It ought ter, anyway," he concluded, blushing bashfully, but valiant in his
            defence.
          'Talk about conceit! But I am wondering how Susie is to know how you were
            besought of all those fair ones and how you were strong enough to resist their
            blandishments," said Sammy, laughingly, remembering yet other fair ones who had
            besought another soldier boy, but whom he refrained from mentioning.
          "Oh, girls always talk those things over among themselves," replied
            Zack, with his newly acquired air of a man of the world. "She knew they ast me
            ter write ter 'em use they told her, an' she knows I ain'
            a-writin' cause I told her --so there you be.
            You'd orter have a girl ter write ter stiddy, Sammy. I 'low I do
            n't know what I'd do if I didn't have Susie ter write ter
            an' ter git letters from when the homesick spells come on. Mebbe, though,
            you've got somebody yander ter the University that you hain't told me
            'bout'n yit?"
          "Nary a one. Those Bloomington girls would n't look twice at a
            backwoodsman, even if I had seen one I hankered after. To tell the truth, I did see
            several whom I should not have minded writing to in the least if I'd been
            asked, but--"
          " Too bad you did n't have your uniform on down there,"
            interrupted Zack, sympathetically, looking over Sammy's erect, blue-clad,
            clean-cut figure admiringly. "That shore would a fixed
            'em."
          "It is too bad, but I have one advantage over you, Zack. I
            am free to fall in love with some of these pretty southern girls."
          "You're welcome ter 'em. I ain't seed ary one yit
            that could hold a taller candle ter Susie."
          " Good for you, Zack," said Sammy, slapping his friend heartily on
            the shoulder in commendation of his loyalty. "But that is n't what I
            came to talk about. Seeing you always sets a fellow to thinking about home--and makes
            him wish we might both sleep under Aunt Salina's Broken Dish quilt, and that sets him to remembering how long it has been
            since we marched away and yet here we are childishly playing 'Kitty wants a
            corner' with Price. I have been detailed to pick out fifty men from the company
            to go on a foraging expedition. Would you like to be one of them?"
          "You kin jist bet I would! I'm dead tired o' doin'
            nothin', an' more'n dead tired o' beans an'
            hard-tack. I 'd feel right peart if I should jist happen like, on the side, ter
            see a chicken runnin' round 'thout no visible owner. Wisht I had some
            o' mam's dumplings right this minute."
          "Ah, but it is strictly against orders to steal anything. We are simply to
            take the wagons, get some corn, pay for it in the coin of the realm, and return like
            good little boys."
          "Who said anything about stealin'? You shorely do n't think
            I'd steal, do you, Sammy?"
          "To be real candid with you, I think you would, under some circumstances; but
            you will have to refrain this time because it is against orders and I shall be there to
            see that they are enforced"
          With Sammy's orders, had come the information that about five miles north of
            camp there was an extensive cornfield from which the grain had not yet been gathered,
            probably for the rea-son that the landowner had been
            unable, on account of the troublous times, to employ the necessary help to harvest
            it.
          It was about ten o'clock of that raw morning in February when, with his
            detail, he arrived at the appointed place. A general view of the premises gave him the
            impression that the owner or owners thereof had at one time at least been highly
            prosperous, and promised well for the probable extent and richness of the coveted
            cornfield; but a vague, indefinable air of neglect resting upon the spacious farmhouse
            and upon the big barns made him fear desertion, and boded ill for his praiseworthy
            determination to pay well for what he must carry away if anyone could be found within a
            radius of possibility upon whom the money might be legitimately forced. He stationed
            pickets at different points and then ordered the wagons into the cornfield.
          When the work of loading the wagons was well begun, he started for the house. There
            were no signs of life anywhere about. The barns were empty, and the heavy doors
            padlocked. The house blinds were drawn close. As he approached, because war and its
            results were new to him, and he was young and untried so that he found all things
            touching upon the wide-reaching influence of war interesting, he could not help
            speculating as to the fortunes, past, present and future,
            of the former day, but now departed, dwellers within the substantial Missouri farmhouse.
            Were they Southern sympthizers? Were the men of the family with Sterling Price or were
            they with Curtis or were they perhaps with Quantrill? If they were in the army at all,
            that fact would account for the air of neglect, and it was possible that some of the
            women-folks might be still at home. Or had they all fled the place, panic-stricken at
            the recent occupation of the Osage country by the armies of Price, or by the later
            approach of the Union forces?
          Perhaps they had been plundered and forced to flee from Guerrillas, the meeting with a
            band of whom only the day before had been one of the few variations of the monotonous
            and seemingly endless march, march, march, and counter-march, through rain and snow and
            sleet, over sunken corduroy road and through mud that mired the guns countless times, of
            that long dreary winter. That Guerrillas were even now infesting the neighborhood had
            been reported to the young lieutenant, and he had reason to believe, besides, that a
            considerable body of Confederate troops was not far distant. The knowledge lent thrill
            of pleasurable excitement to the little expedition. It was not altogether without
            hazard.
          Despite the apparent desertion, Sammy walked boldly to
            the front door and knocked loudly. There was no response from within, but a black cat,
            gaunt with hunger, scurried from under the porch and darted away, wild-eyed, afraid.
            Evidently, the family had been some time gone, or the cat would not have been in such a
            starved condition or so terror-stricken at human approach. On the mere chance of
            arousing somebody, however, and desirous of doing his full duty so that he might go away
            with his heaping wagons, consoled by the consciousness that he had done his best to
            square up for value received, he knocked gain. Still no response. He knocked again and
            again, and then with a half smile at his persistence, he went around to the back door.
            Stepping upon the worn stone stoop, he was about to raise his hand when he paused a
            moment in surprise. Surely someone or something was moving within. He regretted now his
            too noisy and insistent rapping at the front door. It was very probable that there were
            only women-folk about and they had very naturally been alarmed at his boldness,
            cognizant as they must be of the near presence of marauding Guerrillas. That he had been
            heard, he could not doubt. He knocked gently this time. The subdued, rustling sound
            ceased immediately. He knocked again, more loudly. Within, all was quiet as the grave;
            without, there were only the moaningof the chill wind in
            the leafless trees and the distant creaking of the wagons in the cornfield. He called
            aloud:
          "I am from General Curtis's army--Lieutenant Goodman of General Jeff
            C. Davis's Division--I want to pay for the corn we are taking
            away!"
          He thought thus to reassure any within should there be women or children, but he
            received no answer for his pains. Clearly there was some thing about this house that
            would bear careful inestigtion. He could not hve been mistaken about that movement
            inside. It had sounded like some one stepping hastily and lightly across the floor. What
            should he do? He was in the enemy's country. He did not believe that he could
            conscientiously turn away leaving the mystery unsolved. The house might be a hot bed of
            rebel intrigue, and his arrival untimely on account of the presence of some spy whose
            identity must not be known, and the people of the house were taking the precaution to
            conceal all evidence before his expected entrance. It was strange that, if this were a
            loyal household, Price, whose armies had ruthlessly raided every known Union or neutral
            farm during his occupation of the land, should have left it inviolate. However that
            might be, it was his absolute duty to pay for the corn if it could possibly be done. He turned the knob but the door was locked as he had thought
            it would be. He looked at the panels speculatively. They were not very heavy though made
            oak. He thought he might be able to push them in without much trouble, or the latch
            might give way. It did not appear very strong. Despite his slender suppleness, Sammy had
            all the strength of his clean blood and his woods' training.
          "Well, here goes," he said, aloud. "If my methods are
            highwayman-like, I consider them justifiable, under the circumstaces."
          He put his shoulders to the task, thinking as he did so of another house he had broken
            into not so long ago, and smiling a little at the strangeness of his lot--that he should
            be thus once again and ruthlessly breaking in the doors of a private dwelling--he, with
            whom respect for property rights was almost an obsession. After a few vigorous pushes,
            the door gave way, and he stepped immediately into an orderly, well-equipped kitchen.
            There was nobody there, but neither was there dust nor cobwebs nor the chill of
            desertion. A wood fire smoldered upon the hearth but there seemed to be no preparations
            on hand for dinner. The table was spotlessly clean and bare of anything suggestive of
            approaching meal time--and Sammy was hungry. His early breakfast of coffee, hard tack,
            and thin strips of broiled bacon had been been wholly
            insufficient for the boy brought up on fried chicken and soda biscuits, smoking hot from
            the oven.
          He did not linger in the empty room, however, but passed quickly through all the rooms
            on the ground floor. They were big, square apartments as was the southern custom of that
            day, and a very wise one, too, and immaculately neat, indicative of recent occupation.
            The furniture was good, although worn with age and usage. After satisfying himself that
            there was no human presence in any one of these rooms, he climbed the uncarpeted stairs,
            his soldier's tread sounding hollowly through the house. As he reached the
            landing, he thought he heard light footsteps going on before, but the corridor was
            empty. Entering one of the front bed-chambers, he heard, or fancied he heard, the faint
            click of a key turned in a lock.
          At the sound, he hastened to a door on the opposite side of the room, only to find it
            locked. The chase was becoming exciting. He kicked the door open and found himself in
            another bedroom. There was no one there. He sprang to a door standing ajar and
            discovered that it opened upon a narrow stairway and, with one foot already upon the top
            step, heard a door close softly at the bottom. Fairly leaping down the steps Sammy threw
            open the door and reentered the deserted kitchen.
            Altogether, it was a ghostly adventure. In spite of himself, a creepy sensation took
            possession of him, and he began to wonder if the whole world were haunted. He hesitated
            a moment, more than half inclined to call in Zack, or, remembering Zack's
            innate aversion to "hants," some other one of his men, and make a
            thorough and systematic search of the entire premises, when he heard, more distinctly
            than before, the sound of light footsteps, this time on the front stairway. The
            situation did not admit of the delay of calling for assistance.
          Rushing to the hall and springing up the stairs he now could clearly hear some one
            running on ahead, leading over the same course he had pursued before. Again reaching the
            bottom of the stairs leading into the kitchen, he found the door open and was just in
            time to see a trap door in the floor, hitherto unnoticed, drop back into place. He
            pulled it open by means of its iron ring, disclosing rickety, worm-eaten, wooden stairs
            leading into a cellar. His curiosity was by this time thoroughly aroused and his blood
            was up so that he plunged into the yawning darkness without an instant's
            hesitation. With his yoot on the solid dirt floor at last, he paused a moment, trying to
            pierce the dead gloom and to get his bearings. It was dark and damp and musty and cold. He could hear no sound save the beating of his own
            heart.
          "I have you cornered at last!" he cried. "Come out and save
            me the trouble of looking you up in this Stygian blackness! If I knock my nose against a
            bin of potatoes or a barrel of apples a few times, I am not likely to be charitably
            disposed."
          Absolute silence answered him, but as his eyes became accustomed to the dark, and
            objects began to assume shape, he could see the dirt walls before him and was surprised
            to find that the cellar was of such meager dimensions. It simplified his task. Listening
            intently, he thought he could hear some one breathing. He decided that the sound came
            from behind some large packing boxes in the far corner. Drawing his revolver for the
            first time during the whole of this uncanny adventure, he stepped quietly forward,
            saying, curtly:
          "Now, come out of there or I will haul you out by the heels!"
          The same ghostly silence greeted his peremptory command, but there was no mistaking now
            the sound of quick breathing. He thrust a hand behind the box barricade, touched and
            immediately grasped a slender arm, seized it with both hands, and drew from behind the
            ineffectual shelter the now unresisting form of a woman. By the faint glimmer of light from lithe open trap and from a tiny, dustwashed window,
            he observed that she was young and unafraid. She rose to her feet--she had been
            crouching low--shook herself free of his detaining hold, put her back against the cellar
            wall, and said:
          "Well?"
        
        
        
          CHAPTER X
          AN EARNEST CHAMPION
          "WELL," said Sammy, " I pulled you out as
            I said I would."
          "But not by the heels as you said you would."
          "Why did you run away from me?"
          "Why did you run after me?"
          "I thought you must be some rebel general, you tried so desperately to
            escape."
          "And I thought you must be some blood-thirsty Guerrilla, kicking down the door
            and rushing in the way you did."
          "Did n't you hear me introduce myself?"
          "In war time, the truth is not in--men."
          "If you had let me in when I asked you to, I should not have kicked down the
            door."
          "I did not want you to come in."
          "But I wanted to come in."
          "What for?"
          " To see you, of course. Why did n't you open the door?"
          "I did n't want to see you."
          "Well, you don't see me--and I can't see you down here in
            this nether dark--so, now that I am in, do n't
            you think we had better go up stairs and continue this argument in the light? Possibly
            you won't be so averse to seeing me after I have expalined my errand, and I
            should be glad indeed to see you--in a better light."
          "Now that you see I am only a poor, unprotected girl, do n't you
            think the very best thing you can do is to go away at once and leave me in
            peace?"
          I am loading some wagons out here in the cornfield and am trying to find some one with
            whom to settle the account."
          "I do not expect my father home until supper time this evening. Corn is worth
            fifty cents a bushel. If you like, and are really desirous of making what amends you can
            for this highway robbery--I say nothing about your high-handed procedure in the home of
            a quiet, private citizen--estimate the amount you have taken, leave the money on the
            table in the kitchen, and return to your camp."
          "Why are you afraid too come up into the light and take the money yourself? I
            assure you Iam perfectly harmless, and am only acting under orders from my colonel. It
            is not highway robbery at all. Our horses must be fed, and we pay for all we get--which
            is more than can be said of a certain rebel general I know of."
          "Well, then, since you must have an answer, I am
            so ugly that I do n't let anybody see me when I can help it."
          "I do not believe that. Ugliness does not go with a voice like
            yours."
          " All southerners have soft voices, if that is what you mean. Won't
            you go now and do as I suggested?"
          "You arouse my curiosity more and more. There must be some very urgent reason
            why you so persistently refuse to come upstairs. You haven't any Johnny Rebs
            hidden away down here, have you?"
          "There is n't a rebel general in the house."
          " I didn't say rebel generals."
          "Oh, from what you remarked a while ago, I assumed it was rebel generals you
            were after. Well, then, there are no rebels here at all, and I wish you would go
            away."
          "All right, I will go. You will find the money on the kitchen table, unless
            you change your mind and are on hand yourself to receive it when return. Meanwhile,
            won't you change your mind? I want to see you--mighty bad."
          Without waiting for a reply to this, Sammy ran lightly up the uncertain steps and
            hastened out to where his men were gathering the corn. He was young enough to be
            somewhat excited over his adventure with the girl in the cellar and his curiosity was
            unbounded but he saw no way of satisfying it, for by no
            stretch of the imagination could he make it seem that his pursuing of the only course
            possible for a gentleman conflicted in any way with his duties as a soldier. Much as he
            should like to probe farther into the little mystery, of what possible use could be the
            poor little personal secrets of a lone girl to the government of the United States?
            Plainly, there was nothing left for him to do but to garner his grain, weigh it
            mentally, and leave the purchase price thereof on the table for the mysterious,
            sweet-voiced girl who would not come up into the light.
          The wagons filled to overflowing, he proceeded painstakingly to estimate the number of
            bushels they contained. In this his judgment was more to be relied upon than that of
            many an older and wiser head, for the weary years of his apprenticeship to the cleared
            cornfields back in Hoosierland when he and Herbert were forced to assume the stature of
            men, while still but boys, served him well now. To be sure, realizing the pitfalls of
            mental calculation, and desiring to be absolutely fair to the farmer--further
            influenced, perhaps, by the pleasing memory of a sweet voice and a tantalizing
            suggestion of grace of figure in the gloom of the cellar, he erred rather on the side of
            the owner of the corn than that of the Commissary Department. However, his work completed at last, he sureyed the well filled wagons with
            pardonable, boyish pride in his achievement, and thought that General Halleck's
            chief quartermaster, young Captain Philip H. Sheridan, would be well pleased with this
            addition to his hard-earned supplies.
          Once more arriving at the house, he sat down on the back stoop conscientiously to go
            over his figures again. Suddenly, he started up in amazement. Voices! Could it be
            possible? His imagination must be playing him tricks. It had been unusually wrought up
            since he had chased frantically through the empty house after a rustling of ghostly
            garments fleeing on before. Nevertheless, he placed his ear close against the door.
            There were indeed voices carrying on a low-toned conversation, and one of them was the
            voice of a man. The girl had changed her mind, then, as he had hoped she would do--but
            how would she explain the presence of the man? Had her father unexpectedly returned, or
            had he been in hiding all the while? Where, then, if the latter supposition were
            correct? He sprang to his feet and flung open the door. As he did so,the cumbersome trap
            door fell into place again and a woman was just disappearing into the next room.
          "Stop a moment, if you please!" cried Sammy, commandingly, all
            romancing and haunting memory of lilting cadences in a
            woman's voice lost sight of in the soldier's sterner duty.
          "I thought you were not going to insist upon seeing me," replied the
            young woman, halting upon the inner threshold but without turning her head.
            "Lay the money on the table."
          "You said there was no one else in the house. I know now that you were not
            telling we the truth. The situation is altogether changed."
          "You are mistaken. I did not say there was no one in the house. You were
            speaking of rebels only. This is a private dwelling and my affairs are--my affairs. You
            will please go without further foolish argument."
          "You certainly gave me to understand that you were alone in the house, even if
            you did not say so in so many words. As for your ffairs, in war time, dear lady,
            everybody's affairs are the affairs of the United States Government, although I
            confess I never realized it so fully as when I heard that trap door slam just
            now."
          "Well, say I--lied, then," said the girl, "why do you think
            I did so?"
          "That is exactly what I wish to find out," cried Sammy, eagerly.
            "More than that, I will find out, so you might just as well turn around and
            talk this matter over with me. I have fortified myself against the sight of your ugly
            face."
          
          Without another word, the girl turned and looked at him. Her face was a puzzle to
            Sammy. It was not a beautiful face but it was so far from plain as to make utterly
            unwarrantable her assertion of ugliness as an excuse for remaining underground. Her eyes
            were deep brown, large and clear and steady, and as she gazed unflinchingly at him,
            there was a question in them. Her soft brown hair was looped over her ears, as was the
            fashion of that day, and the ends were coiled low on her neck. She was exquisitely neat
            though her simple frock of brown and white print was faded with many washings and frail
            with many mendings. There was something about the clear, steadfast gaze, and the
            indefinable charm of her whole attitude standing quietly upon the inner threshold
            waiting his will that reminded him someway of little Mary Ann Hamilton of those old days
            in the backwoods of Indiana. Mary Ann had ever been timid to the point of fleeing
            frantically from real or imagined danger, until cornered, when she would turn and face
            her fears as unflinchingly as this shabby young woman had done, and he smiled with
            reminiscent tenderness, remembering how boldly the bashful child had championed his
            cause against the school-boy bully, Bob Halstead. Perhaps it was this fleeting
            resemblance that made her so instantly attractive to Sammy in spite of her deception, which, after all, was in war time when all
            is fair.
          "What do you wish to ask of me? I told you there was no one here except
            myself. If you still think there is, you are welcome to continue your brigandish search
            and to take charge of whomsoever you may find. Why do you not proceed? I am a woman and
            alone. I cannot enforce my wishes. I wonder you hesitate to carry out your
            own."
          The words were double-edged but Sammy did not wince. Notwithstanding the haunting charm
            of her fair young face, pale and worn now almost to haggardness, his duty was clearly
            uppermost in his mind.
          "Thank you," he rejoined, promptly. "I shall avail myself of
            your grudging permission right gladly. I know where he is this time, so you will not be
            long inconvenienced by my ruffianly behavior. I promise, without solicitation, to be as
            expeditious as the circumstances will permit," and he stepped briskly toward
            the trap-door.
          The girl threw out her hand in an involuntary gesture of pleading.
          "You are right," she said, and for the first time since his discovery
            of her in the cellar, she was visibly perturbed. "He is down there. Come into
            the parlor, won't you, and sit down for a little
            while. Let us talk it over as you yourself suggested a moment ago. I will tell you who
            he is and everything I know about him--which is n't much. Please believe
            me."
          "All in good time," said Sammy. "I will just get my man
            first, if you please. He might slip away while we were discussing him,
            otherwise."
          " You are afraid that I am still deceiving you," replied the girl.
            "You think I am trying to toll you away so that the man down there may make his
            escape. You are mistaken, but of course I cannot make you believe that now.
            Nevertheless, I am nor a harborer of spies, nor of rebel generals, as you seem to
            think."
          She was so slow and deliberate in her speech and movements that Sammy was strengthened
            in his belief that she had all the while been playing for time. He focused his attention
            upon the trap-door and smiled with inward satisfaction, remembering the impossible width
            of the tiny, dust-begrimed window below. "Play away," he thought,
            indulgently, feeling himself master of the situation.
          " You can sit here," continued the girl placing a chair close to the
            door leading into the kitchen, which commanded an unobstructed view of the
            innocent-looking square in the floor. "Then nothing can happen without your
            knowledge. Are you satisfied?"
          
          "Perfectly." He stepped forward into the adjoining room and sat down.
            "Now, then, young Miss Homely Woman, you may proceed, but do not be long in the
            telling. My wagons are ready to start on their way back to camp, and I have no time to
            lose."
          " I suppose you would like to know my real reason for not coming upstairs with
            you," the girl said, seating herself and tapping the floor with her shapely
            foot in its worn shoe. " It was on account of--the man, of
            course."
          "Your father?"
          "A--friend."
          Turning from him, her eyes sought the window, and she allowed her gaze to rest idly for
            a moment upon the cold, sodden outdoors.
          "Oh, what is the use!" she exclaimed, suddenly, rising and walking
            restlessly over to this same window with its dreary prospect. "He ran away from
            the Union army. If there were any way out, I would n't tell General Curtis
            himself--let alone a boy like you. But there isn't--so now you know it
            all--only that it would be brutal to visit this first offense upon his head. He could
            n't help it. I know, you see, because--"
          " Brutal to courtmartial a cowardly deserter from the Army of the United
            States?" broke in Sammy, coldly.
          
          " Do n't call names," begged the girl. "There is
            harshness enough in the world without that. He is so young--he's just like a
            girl. He said he never could explain why he ran away--he did n't mean to.
            Something came over him and he just had to go. It was the Guerrillas, you know, and it
            was his first real experience. His company was out on some detail--and he said when men
            began to fall around him, he went wild and just turned and ran for his life. He does
            n't even know how the skirmish came out."
          " And how did he happen to come here?" asked Sammy, hating himself
            for the question, yet urged to it by his desire to ascertain, if possible, for his peace
            of mind, of how long standing was this alleged friendship between a common deserter and
            the girl whose indefinable charm had appealed to him so strongly.
          She gave him a fleeting glance, and then she smiled a little.
          "I do n't know," she said, "unless, perhaps, he
            thought he might receive help. He needed it--so much."
          "But you--why did you run away? Granted your desire to protect your friend, of
            what possible benefit could that wild chase through this ghostly house be to him. Did
            n't you realize that, under the mysterious circumstances of a rustling garment
            floating on before, one would be a hundred times more apt
            to prosecute a thorough, systematic search than if you had come naturally to the door
            when I knocked, and enquired my business?"
          She faced him squarely, and then he realized that it was her eyes which had set him
            a-dreaming of little true-eyed Mary Ann of the backwoods. Unconsciously, he sighed. He
            had lived long enough already to learn that the friends of one's later and
            larger life are seldom so stanchly true as were those first ones with whom one played
            hookey, raided watermelon beds, ate green persimmons, and walked boldly through dark and
            haunted woods only to scamper back alone in quaking fear of seeing something.
          "I hoped you would n't hear me," she said. "I kept
            hoping maybe you were just pursuing your 'systematic search,' and
            would desist as soon as you had been all over the house. I did n't want to lie,
            even for him--unless I had to. I preferred to hide."
          "I do not understand yet, however, why you refused to come to the
            light," he insisted.
          "It was this way. When I went into the cellar to hide, this man heard me and
            undertook to creep out of his place of concealment. He thought perhaps I needed help. He
            was behind a big pile of boxes and they toppled over on him, pinning him to the ground.
            I had just started to dig him out of the wreck when I
            heard you coming. I did n't know whether he was killed or not--the boxes were
            so very heavy--but I whispered to him to keep still, and had just time myself to creep
            behind a box when you came down. I thought you would never go," she continued,
            naively. "I did so want to find out whether he was injured or not. He was
            n't hurt a bit--only bruised a little--but of course I did n't know
            that then. So now you know why I was so anxious for you to go."
          "But you knew I would come back. If he had not made himself heard so soon, I
            should have returned to camp wholly unsuspicious."
          "He was determined to 'take his medicine then and there,' as
            he put it. He would not obey. He came up in spite of all I could do. But I--pushed him
            back. I was afraid of you."
          "You are too young to show mercy, too strong to understand fear."
          How do you know? You are not so very old yourself," retorted Sammy, nettled at
            this second reference to his youth.
          "Women are always older than men."
          "Did he tell you to what company he belonged?"
          " Yes. It was Company E, Eighteenth Indiana, I think."
          
          "Why, that is my company," exclaimed Sammy, in surprise. "Of
            course, Percy Selvin, I might have known! Zack Posey, one of my men, told me about his
            defection when the skirmish was over--but there are so many stragglers, I had forgotten
            for the moment. We were taken by surprise--we had thought it too warm for Guerrilla
            tactics with Curtis's army on the march--but we came out of it with hardly a
            scratch ourselves, though we damaged up the other side considerably. Zack said young
            Selvin acted like a scared rabbit. He turned at the very first shot and hopped for the
            tall timber in great leaps--for all the world like a hunted cotton-tail. I never could
            see a rabbit scurrying for shelter from the hunters without being sorry. I reckon
            I'm sort of chicken-hearted--and yet I'll have to have him arrested
            and courtmartialed. I'm sorry--and surprised, too. He always drilled so well.
            One would have said he had more than the ordinary makings of a good soldier in
            him."
          "He's so young." said the girl, musingly. "It seems
            as if there ought to be some way out of it. Does n't the army ever give boys
            another chance? Is n't there enough of suffering and death without that? This
            boy cried last night--he so wanted to be brave. You talk about hunted rabbits--but when
            a man cries, that is the most sad of all. I knew a boy
            once who would not run and who would not cry, when all the world would have forgiven him
            for it. I have never forgotten it. But we can't all be like that, Lieutenant.
            Some of us need another chance. Your uniform is pretty new as yet," she
            continued, gravely. "Are you so sure of yourself that you needs must condemn
            another so soon? To be sure there was that skirmish--but if you were surprised on a
            lonely picket or should come unexpectedly upon Price's army, do you know of yourself that you would not want to run--even though you did
            n't? Could n't you at least understand the impulse?"
          "I am so sure of myself," responded Sammy, with a smile,
            "that I am almost sure, under the conditions you mention, I should make no
            bones of it whatever, but simply bolt at the first hint of alarm. So it would
            n't do to be too hard on young Selvin, I reckon. And as Zack and I are the only
            ones who know anything about his sudden defection, I think we can keep it from the boys
            and give him his--other chance. Zack has already fathered him on more than one occasion.
            There's no fear of Zack. So trot out your man, young lady. When the boys see us
            together, they'll just naturally think I knew where he was all the
            time."
          The girl rose quickly, a pleased light on her face. She
            half held out her hand, but repented the impulse and let it fall to her side again.
          "And please do n't be skimpy with his other chance," she
            said, earnestly, while her pretty mouth quivered with feeling. "Nor cut it on
            the bias. Gather it full, Lieutenant, on a double thread--and watch over him a little,
            won't you, when the battle comes on, remembering always that we can't
            all be battle mad."
          "Call him up!" said Sammy, briefly, almost curtly, conscious again of
            a feeling of resentment that this girl whom he so romantically discovered should
            continue to display so great an interest in a common young deserter from the army.
            Although he himself had been inclined to leniency in dealing with Selvin, yet he had
            hungered for her approbation; and now, instead of being grateful to him for what he had
            done, like Oliver Twist, she "wanted more."
          She looked at him steadily a moment, and then walked unhesitatingly toward the
            trap-door. Sammy sprang forward to lift it for her.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XI
          THE GUERRILLAS OUT-WITTED
          PEERING down into the dark cellar-way, Sammy called in the friendly
            way he had, "Hello there, Selvin! Come on up! The fight's
            over."
          The girl looked at him reproachfully for the little dig, but he met her glance with one
            of gay banter.
          "How are you, Lieutenant," said the boy, saluting, as he crawled
            through the opening.
          "What have you to say for yourself, Selvin? asked Sammy, more gravely.
          "Nothing, Lieutenant," replied the boy simply. "I went wild
            when the firing began and ran away--that is all."
          The young face was white and drawn from fatigue, exposure, regret, self-reproach, and,
            possibly, homesickness. He was, in very truth, only a boy in years and experience. His
            clothes were soiled and torn from his mad rush through mud and bramble and brush to get
            away from it--the awful horror of the loud, relentless guns. Across his forehead was a
            purple bruise where the avalanche of toppling boxes in the
            cellar had struck him in its descent. Altogether, he was sorry-looking figure, but he
            looked at Sammy with no flinching in the brown eyes in which the unconscious pathos of
            their soft youth, shrinking involuntarily from the swift harbinger of sudden death as
            shrieked forth by the terrible guns, was the only appeal for mercy. It required heroism
            to do that, for, to the average soldier, there is no crime so despicable, no affront so
            unforgivable, no cowardice so utter, as that of a deserter in action; and, in the eyes
            of Company E, already, Lieutenant Goodman was more than the average soldier, he was, the
            very ideal of a soldier. It took much of courage to look at this young commander
            unfalteringly.
          "This young woman--by the way, Selvin, won't you introduce me? It is
            almighty awkward to keep saying 'the young woman' all the
            while--"
          "To be sure," interrupted Selvin, quickly. "This is
            Lieutenant Goodman, Company E, Eighteenth Indiana, Miss--"he paused, in
            surprised wonder, while the girl broke into a peal of merry laughter.
          "How could I ever forget it, when he informed me of that fact himself in such
            stentorian tones through the barred and bolted door of my castle?" she said,
            gayly.
          
          "But why it should be considered a subject of ridicule--" began
            Sammy, aggrieved, but vastly relieved, nevertheless, to learn that Selvin's
            acquaintance was evidently not of long standing, that, in all probability, it had no
            date prior to his coming to her dwelling for refuge.
          "Oh, please do forgive me," cried the girl, in quick but smiling
            penitence. "It was not at that I was laughing at all. I was only wondering why
            Mr. Selvin did not finish his introduction."
          " I do n't know your name," explained Selvin, in blushing
            apology. "You have been so good to me I forgot that you had never told
            me."
          "My name is Brown, Sara Brown," said the girl quietly.
          "On Miss Brown's recommendation," proceeded Sammy,
            "as well as on account of a belief in you that I hold in spite of your action
            of yesterday, I have about made up my mind to give you another chance."
          "You do n't mean it!" cried Selvin, incredulously.
            "Oh, if you only would!" The unexpected hope of a reprieve all at once
            so glorified the face of the young deserter that Sammy was touched and Sara Brown turned
            away her face to hide the sudden tears. "With you for my leader,"
            continued the boy, joyously, gazing at Sammy almost adoringly, "and you--a woman like you--" turning to Sara and
            smiling into her face as she stood by his side,
            "to care what I do--or do n't do--I ought to make a brave soldier
            yet--and I hope some one will shoot me in the back if I betray your
            confidence." He was speaking to both but he was looking into Sara's
            eyes as he spoke.
          "I know that you will do your duty," she answered the unvoiced
            pledge, steadily. "I am going to ask your Lieutenant to let me know once in a
            while how you do it and how you fare. I shall always be interested. I shall never forget
            you."
          "How glad I shall be to do that!" exclaimed Sammy, his heart leaping
            exultantly at the thought that this girl was not to pass out of his life at once and
            forever, even though, in carrying out her wishes, he should be seemingly furthering the
            interests of another man. "And now, Selvin, if anybody asks you where you have
            been, inform that person that I know where you were. Remember, this is your chance!"
          The peculiar emphasis placed on the word was brimful of significance, and Selvin
            involuntarily straightened himself to meet the ultimatum. Sammy did not say a chance--one of possible others--just your chance, and Selvin
            understood.
          "And I am afraid your opportunity has come sooner than we expected,"
            said Sammy, suddenly his voice as he spoke assuming the
            stern, incisive tones of the officer in action. The hoof-beats of horses approaching as
            rapidly as the heavy roads would permit could now be distinctly heard,and Sammy stepped
            quickly to the window. "There is no mistake this time. They bear all the
            hall-marks of Guerrilla gentry, and there is no mean number, either." He
            crossed the kitchen foor, and, opening the door, looked out in the direction of the
            departing wagon train. The deserted cornfield lay trampled and forlorn under the cloudy
            sky. Wagons and men had disappeared around a bend in the road. He breathed a sigh of
            relief, even while deploring the exigencies of the adventure which had all morning
            seemed bent upon hindering him from joining his command. Closing the door softly, he
            rejoined his companions awaiting his directions in trembling speechlessness.
          "If they stop for plunder," he said, speaking rapidly,
            "Selvin and I will take to the cellar and hide there until they go away or
            until we can plan some means of escape. They will have no reason to suspect our
            presence, so no doubt we shall be allowed to lie by in quiet. I do not think they will
            interfere with you in any way, Miss Brown. If they should, I shall not be very far away,
            you know. Remember that. If they do not stop, then Sel- vin and I must hasten forward at once. We have simply got to reach my men before the
            fight is over. We cannot hope to overtake them ahead of these mounted men."
          "There are two horses hid in the brush," said Sara, earnestly; She
            had recovered somewhat of her courage though her heart was still beating very fast
            indeed. "Take them! The Guerrillas will get them sooner or later anyway, if you
            do n't."
          "How good you are! I will borrow them gladly--if I can only get the chance! It
            may be just possible then for me to make a detour and reach the wagons before the
            Guerrillas overtake them."
          "They are turning in," the girl whispered, her face blanching a
            little. She was watching from the window, while Sammy had moved farther back into the
            room for fear of being seen, which contingency could only result in serious trouble to
            the Browns for harboring Union soldiers, besides being disastrous to his hopes of being
            able to rejoin his command before the end.
          "Quick, for the cellar, Selvin!" cried Sammy. "It seems to
            be a decidedly popular place of late. Remember," lowering his voice and letting
            his glance linger for just one fleeting moment on the clear profile and colorless face
            of the girl standing so bravely by the window, "I shall be right at the head of the steps. I shall hear and know--everything.
            Is your revolver loaded, Selvin?"
          "Yes, sir."
          "I have a rifle. It hangs behind the door there," said Sara.
            " I was born and raised in thebackwoods. I shall know how to use
            it."
          Glancing at Selvin as he took his arm for the descent, Sammy noticed that the boy had
            whitened to the very lips and in the luminous brown eyes was the look of a trapped
            animal.
          "Selvin!" he cried, sharply. "This is your chance, boy! For
            God's sake, brace up! Do just a I say! Do you hear? Just as I
            say!"
          In a moment, the heavy trap-door had closed over their heads. Sara Brown was alone.
            Almost immediately there was a loud rapping at the door. Sammy, listening, heard her
            stifle an involuntary gasp of terror before she walked unhurriedly to the door and
            opened it, and then he heard a harsh voice demand:
          "Where is the old man o' the house?"
          His head reeled and he was forced to steady himself by grasping Selvin's
            shoulder, while, with the other hand, he brushed away in the darkness an imaginary film
            before his eyes. He was living over again the saddest day of his life--and the most
            terrible. He was not mistaken. The voice was that of Hank Halstead.
          
          "My father is not at home," replied Sara, quietly, to the rough
            question.
          "Where is he?"
          "He went to town this morning."
          "Mighty lucky thing for him that he was took with that air notion, and
            he'd better not show up around here agin if he knows what's good for
            him. It might be jist as well for you to tell him that when you see him. We make this
            here neighborhood a purty hot place for nigger lovers and sich."
          "Yes, I understand that you, and such as you, are too cowardly to go and fight
            where there is real fighting, but that you bravely make war upon women and children and
            old men."
          Sammy, listening uneasily to the proud, clear voice, now curiously unafraid, and
            realizing how true was all she said and how such truth always rankled, felt an almost
            uncontrollable impulse to come forth and shake her for the audacity which could only
            bring down wrath and probable actual harm upon her head.
          "Don't you go to gittin' too smart, Miss, and above all
            things, you'd better not let my men hear you talk that away."
          "Oh, I have no doubt that they would get together in a body, make a heroic
            charge upon me and kill me, the dragon, every one of the brave fellows being a veritable
            St. George." The flagrant sarcasm in the soft
            voice caused Sammy to wonder at her courage in silent, though disapproving admiration.
            "I wonder that you hesitate at all," she went on, "since
            murder seems to be your occupation in life."
          "Them's purty nasty words, my girl, and purty bold as well.
            You'd better look a leetle out, as I was a-tellin' you before, and you
            might as well know once and for all that we 'low to have no Union sympathizers
            sich as you folks be around these here parts. Git a few clothes together and git, for
            we'r goin' to burn the house down right away. There ain't
            a-goin' to be ary stick o' timber left of ary buildin'
            'gin we git through, and you kin thank your stars you're a woman or
            we'd shoot you down like we would a dawg. If there are any horses in the barn,
            you kin have one to git out o' the kentry with, if you'll
            hurry."
          "How magnanimous!"
          "Do n't you go to talkin' too much, my lady, or I might
            accidentally change my mind. Hurry now! If you ain't ready 'gin the
            time I come back with your horse, you'll jist have to stay and take your
            medicine. I'll have done all for you I could," and Sammy heard the
            door slam on his retreating form. It was a welcome sound. He put the weight of his
            shoulders to the trap and shoved it open.
          
          "It is as I thought," he said, hurriedly, and in a low voice.
            "You're perfectly safe. They will let you go in peace. I think he
            would be afraid of a woman's ghost," he interpolated, bitterly and
            enigmatically. "Come on, Selvin, now's our chance! We have
            n't a moment to lose. I think we can get to the timber on the other side of the
            road without being seen as the men all seem to be down at the barn. Good-by, Miss Brown.
            Hurry, as Hank said, and--I shall see you again."
          The boys ran lightly through the hall to the front door and Sammy threw it open to find
            Hank Halstead standing squarely before the opening with a diabolical grin upon his face,
            cocked revolver in his hand.
          "My little ruse worked, did n't it?" he began, in
            disagreeable triumph. "I 'lowed there might be somebody
            hangin' round. I did n't altogether believe that girl's
            story, either, 'bout her pap's bein' away.
            Why--you--Sammy--"
          Gradually, his eyes had widened with a dawning fear and horror, and a chalky whiteness
            spread over his countenance, while a stammering took the place of the swaggering tones
            of triumph. Recognition had been slower with him than it had been with Sammy. The years
            had made a man of Sammy Goodman, while he remembered only a boy with a white face,
            blazing eyes, and bleeding leg. Slowly, unconsciously, his
            arm with its still cocked revolver fell to his side, while he gazed as if hypnotized,
            into the face of Gerry Goodman's son. Suddenly realizing his blunder, all too
            late, he would have whistled for his men, but Sammy foiled any such design by leaping
            forward and planting a terrific blow squarely in the faceof the Guerrilla leader, who
            fell to the ground like a log.
          "Is he dead?" whispered Selvin.
          "I do n't know. I hope so," replied Sammy, briefly.
            "We have n' time to ascertain. Help me pack him into the
            house," he continued, reverting to the provincialism of his boyhood in the
            stress of the moment.
          They dragged the unconscious man into the house, bound him securely with a clothesline
            which Sara, fetched from somewhere with amazing presence of mind, gagged him and tossed
            him into a corner.
          "You are going to leave him here then?" asked the girl, a strange
            tone in her voice which caused Sammy to glance at her curiously. "Of course.
            There is nothing else to do now. But," suddenly bethinking himself,
            "not you. You will have to come with us. We dare not leave you after this. Come
            on, both of you!"
          Sara snatched a shawl from a peg onthe wall, and the trio slipped cautiously out of the
            front door. There was no one in sight. Taking
            Sara's hand in his and bidding Selvin follow, Sammy led the flight across the
            road and into the timber on the other side. When they had gone a considerable distance
            straight toward the heart of the forest, they turned and went parallel with the road,
            following the direction pursued by Sammy's own men a short time before.
          It was dank and cold under the winter-stripped trees, and the dead wet leaves of other
            years served only to make the sogginess of the unblazed woods trail soggier still. Their
            way was further impeded by huge, rotting logs which had to be surmounted or gone around.
            Dead limbs reached up and struck at their faces with vicious pertinacity, or slapped
            them unexpectedly from above. Briers caught at and tore their clothes. Frequently, they
            were forced to pause and take bearings, fearful of straying too far from the road and
            becoming confused as to direction which would be disastrous in the cloudy state of the
            weather. Presently, it set in to rain, and then to snow, and the wind grew keener.
            Determined not to be a hindrance, Sara Brown pressed her lips together and trudged
            along, stubbornly refusing all offers of help, though her feet were wet and cold, and
            the shawl, only partially covering her slim, girlish form in its thin, cotton gown, was
            pitifully inadequate to the requirements of the cutting
            wind which howled mournfully through the bare trees. Once, she tripped over a
            treacherously hidden branch of a fallen tree and fell to the muddy ground, where she
            lay, too wet and chilled and momentarily discouraged to summon the ambition necessary
            for arising immeditely. She was a pitiful looking object huddled there upon the ground,
            and Sammy's heart smote him. But he had to compel her to go on. There was no
            other way.
          "I can't go a step farther--and I won't," she
            declared, mutinously, when Sammy stooped to lift her. "I know the way back.
            I'll just wait till those bushwhackers have passed and then go home by the road
            like a civilized being."
          "Hardly," said Sammy. "When they discover what we have done
            to their leader, they will have no mercy left for you. Do hurry, Miss Brown! Every
            instant of delay is dangerous! We'll help you, Selvin and I."
          He took hold of one arm while he was speaking, motioned for Selvin to take the other,
            and gently but firmly pushed her forward. When he felt her shiver, he hastily divested
            himself of his army overcoat and wrapped it securely around her in spite of her
            protests. Tears of vexation came into her eyes when she found she could not move him.
            Her pride rebelled--her obligtions were becoming so manifold.
          
          "Never you mind--I'll get even for this some time," she
            said, childishly, defiantly. "I'll show you I'm not a child
            to be carried hither and yon and wrapped in swaddling clothes whether I will or not, at
            the whim of anybody or everybody who happens along. Remember that!"
          "I'll remember," promised Sammy. "Meanwhile, I
            think we had better get into the road again. We've passed the big bend, I
            think, and must be nearly up with the wagons. They have to move so tarnationally slow. I
            do n't want to run any risk of passing them--perhaps traveling will be easier,
            too. The Guerrillas may delay indefinitely, or they may not come this way at all. They
            will spend some time in trying to locate the direction pursued by the assailants of
            their worthy leader."
          It was easier traveling by the road; though the mud, newly lubricated by the fresh fall
            of sleet and drizzling rain, was deeper and stickier than in the woods, their way was
            now free from the many other obstacles which there beset their trail, and they pressed
            forward with renewed energy. Presently, rounding another bend, they were overjoyed to
            see the men and wagons not more than three hundred yards on ahead, but the next moment
            relief was swallowed up in alarm by the sound of galloping hoofbeats in their rear.
            Sammy ran swiftly back to the turn of the road to
            reconnoiter. A considerable band of mounted men was bearing down hard upon them.
          "And it is I--I--who am delaying you, and have been all along," cried
            Sara, when he had returned and given his report. "And now they will overtake us
            after all, and you will be killed before you have a chance to fight with your men. Run!
            Oh, do run! Leave me! I will come as fast as I can. They will not hurt me. Please!
            Please!"
          But that her pleading was futile, she knew all the time from Sammy's half
            smile of almost amused dissent. And then before she realized what was coming, or had
            time to expostulate, the two young men picked her up bodily and ran forward, exerting
            all the strength they had in their lithe young bodies. As soon as his voice could be
            distinctly heard and understood, Sammy cried out in command, and, with a rousing cheer,
            the plucky little fraction of a company halted and formed in perfect discipline before
            the wagons.
          The Guerrillas had espied Sammy on his little journey of reconnoissance and they swung
            round the bend with yells of anticipatory triumph. They checked their horses in
            surprised confusion, however, at the unexpected sight of a force of Union soldiers lined
            up in waiting. Although they outnumbered Sammy's
            little command, they did not seem inclined to fight, and, after a few preliminary shots
            had been interchanged, they wheeled and galloped back.
          The boys were all palpably curious about the young woman their commander was so
            absorbedly engaged in trying to make comfortable in one of the loaded wagons, but army
            discipline forbade question or comment. Zack, espeially, was non-plussed, and stared
            with round eyes and dropped chin; and then, moving forward to offer his own coat,
            slowly, he grinned. He was thinking of the southern beauties Sammy had said he was free
            to love; and then, his smile grew wistfully tender, for from Sammy's possible
            love affair, his thought naturally turned to old Aunt Salina Haskin's
            granddaughter Susie.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XII
          NIGHT ADVENTURE
          WHEN the foraging party arrived at the camp, the early dusk was
            beginning to creep over the valley of the Osage. Night was closing in damp and cloudy,
            but the rain had temporarily ceased. It grew so clammily cold that the indications were
            for a freeze, unless the rain began again, which would only serve to further
            incapacitate the roads for the passing of the army. The ruts and only partially frozen
            hummocks would make marching a veritable martyrdom, and yet the Division was preparing
            to resume its march in the morning. Sammy, inquiring the cause for the fever of unrest
            and excitement which seemed to pervade the atmosphere of the entire encampment, learned
            that the army was to pull stakes and cross the river at daybreak and press forward to
            join Curtis at Lebanon.
          In front of the company mess tent, the company officers' servant, a sleek,
            voluble, northern darkey, especially attached to the service of the Captain, and who, in
            fact, had accompanied that officer to the front, soon had
            a big camp-fire blazing and crackling for the benefit of Sammy and his strange and
            unexpected guest. They were both chilled to the marrow, and the grateful warmth of the
            leaping flames was as good to them as water to the thirsty or as manna to the starving;
            and when the delicious warmth was followed by the gracious, appetizing odor of broiling
            bacon and bubbling coffee, a homey, comforting, dreamy languor of utter content stole
            over Sammy's senses, such as he had not known since that memorable day when the
            Eighteenth marched away with colors flying, bands playing, crowds cheering. If the
            presence of the sober-faced, rather frightened, but plucky, sweet-eyed girl in the wet,
            drooping, print gown, did not have somewhat to do with this new feeling of rest, at
            least it did not detract from it. Even the simmering and sputtering of the water-soaked
            sticks thrown into the glowing heart of the fire, there to dry and finally to burn, had
            a soothing sound, and the gloomy, darkening sky now almost black against the gleaming
            sparks shooting upward, seemed to shut them in from war and the terrors that haunt its
            beginning and stalk in its wake. Presently, as Sammy stared dreamily into the red coals,
            or indolently watched the efficient darkey deftly transfer strips of smoking, dripping
            bacon from the point of a long green stick to the plate, a
            figure sauntered into the mellow glow of the camp-fire from the gloom of the shadows
            without, the stocky figure of a private soldier, the figure of Zack. He did not accost
            his superior--it was as if he had not seen him. He warmed his hands by the fire a
            moment, and then walked unconcernedly away, back into the darkness. But before he
            disappeared from the circle of light, he slipped something into the servant's
            hands, something clumsily wrapped in paper. There was nothing showing that might in any
            way betray the secret of the contents of the package. The darkey unwrapped it curiously,
            while Sammy looked on with twinkling eyes of intuitive understanding, and then with a
            knowing wink held it out for the Lieutenant to see. It was a piece of fresh pork.
          "I ought to report the rascal," said Sammy, shaking his head
            dubiously over the treasure displayed in the colored man's outstretched hands,
            "but I do n't see how I can. I have n't the heart. What would
            you do, Miss Brown?"
          "I'd eat the pork," said Sara, so promptly that Sammy
            laughed.
          "That advice is even sounder and more to the point than was Mr.
            Dick's famous reply to Betsey Trotwood when she asked him what she should do
            with David: 'I should wash him.' No sooner said than done--except to
            allow time for the cooking. Trot out the frying pan,
            Leroy! If the Captain comes in, we'll invite him to the feast. And now, Miss
            Brown, what am I going to do with you?"
          She was ready with her answer.
          "Let me sit by your fireside till I'm dry, it won't be long
            now, your LeRoy has been so generous with the wood, give me a sip of your coffee, and
            bite to eat, and then manage a passport for me someway so that I may leave your lines
            without being hung as a spy," she said, smilingly, but seriously, too,
            "and then I will say good-by and--you have been very good to me. I feel like a
            thief taking bread from the very mouths of hungry soldiers, but it's seven
            miles to Linn where I purpose to spend the night, and--I am so hungry. I have
            n't eaten anything since breakfast, you know. I'll try to restrain my
            appetite, which is enormous."
          "And will your father find you there" he asked, gravely.
          Instantly, her face clouded, but she only replied, thoughtfully:
          "Some time, of course. I do n't know how soon. He will be very much
            worried. But I could n't go home now, could I? Nothing will be left there, and
            our neighbors have all gone away."
          "You have friends in Linn?"
          
          She shook her head slowly.
          "Not close friends--but there will be some one to take me in. We have been
            rather lonely since we came to Missouri."
          After a cozy silence, "Thank you," she said to the negro, LeRoy, with
            a winning smile, as he handed her deferentially a tin plate piled high with the best
            that his culinary genius could produce out of his limited stock. Black LeRoy did not
            have to be told, in spite of the storm-stained frock and the strangeness of her presence
            alone in an officer's tent with night coming on, that this girl was not one of
            the ordinary camp followers, those parasitic cancers who abounded even in that day of
            awful stress.
          After supper, Sammy sought the Colonel again, and, after nearing in detail the story of
            the day's adventures and explaining the presence of the young woman with his
            company, he obtained permission to escort her to Linn, with the loan of two horses,
            providing he would be back before the Division moved at daybreak. It was a somewhat
            risky undertaking, fraught with much of uncertainty, and the Colonel chafed under the
            awkwardness of the situation, but as Linn was at present well within the limits of Union
            protection, with the farming districts friendly, bitterly resentful of the recent raids
            of Price's army, and, also, as Sammy was respect- fully determined, the harassed regmental commander finally gave his consent, and Sammy
            departed happy.
          Just as they were preparing to slip quietly away, it began to rain again, and as Sammy
            was casting about for some better means of protection for his charge than her scant
            shawl afforded, there was the ubiquitous Zack stammeringly offering his cloak again with
            somewhat of the same feeling of championing those whom Sammy favored as prompted him to
            choose little Mary Ann Hamilton first at that long ago spelling match. Sara accepted the
            courtesy and the assured comfort as well graciously.
          "Thank you, Mr. Zack. I hope I shall see you again some day. You
            won't forget Mr. Selvin, will you? I understand you have sort of adopted him.
            Lieutenant Goodman will bring back your coat. Good-by."
          The roads were execrable. The horses, encumbered only with their riders, fared little
            better than had those with the heavily loaded wagons earlier in the afternoon. The dark
            had settled down like a blanket, smothering in its dense impenetrability, and the fine
            stinging rain smote their faces with an icy sharpness. Talking, under the circumstances,
            required too great an effort to be indulged in to any extent, and, after a few desultory
            remarks now and then, they relapsed into silence when
            nothing was to be heard but the beat of the wind, the swish of the rain, and the splash
            of the horses' hoofs through the wet, muddy roads, as they threaded the black
            night.
          "I think we must be nearly to the creek," said Sara, when they had
            ridden in one of these silences forwhat seemed an interminable length of time.
            " We have to ford it. There has never been a bridge, but the water will be high
            after these rains. Are the horses reliable?"
          "They are army horses--poor things," replied Sammy, commiseratingly.
            "If experience counts for anything, trust them for anything short of the ocean
            or the frozen summits of Mont Blanc."
          "It's not very far from home" said Sara, wistfully.
            "I wish we might go around that way and see if father is there."
          "The Colonel's orders are very strict," rejoined Sammy,
            regretfully. "No side issues and camp by daylight. If the roads keep on getting
            worse as they have been all the way, I have n't a moment to lose."
          They had proceeded but a short diatance farther, when from out the darkness somewhere,
            unlocatable because of the black nothingness of all else, even directions, came the
            sound of voices, subdued yet unmistakably human voices.
          
          "It sounds as if they were at the ford," whispered Sara, a little
            catch of apprehension in her voice.
          "Now, could it be those Guerrillas again?" muttered Sammy, more to
            himself than to his companion. "Waiting until daylight to cross the creek? To
            be sure, we might have known they would n't cross the river ahead of our army.
            They will come afterward--like vultures. We could n't have missed the road,
            could we?"
          Presently a light flickered forth in the darkness, just a tiny gleam, and it shone as
            if through trees or underbrush, but it was a stationary light. It flickered and danced
            and smoldered at the sport of the wind and rain, but it did not move to and fro as would
            a lantern or a torch. It was plainly a camp fire.
          "They are going to camp there for the night," whispered Sammy.
            "That settles it as far as we are concerned, I'm afraid. We could
            n't pick another crossing in the night. It's blacker than a stack of
            black cats. You must be acquainted somewhat hereabouts. Is n't there some one
            with whom you could stay over night and who would see you safely to Linn in the
            morning?"
          "The Blackburns live over to our right a ways, but we'll have to go
            back a mile or two, as I remember, to take the cross-road."
          "We will go there then; but first, let me make sure that it is necessary--that they are not friends. D on't move--hold my
            horse steady--there are doubtless pickets. Whatever you do, be still!"
          He slipped cautiously from his horse and crept noiselessly forward straight toward the
            yellow gleam yonder in the darkness. That was a bad moment for Sara Brown, surrounded by
            the black night, the stinging storm, enemies, and armies; behind her, a razed homestead;
            before her, what? And she was alone in it all. What would happen to her if Lieutenant
            Goodman did not come back? But Sammy was not gone long, and her relief was intense when
            she felt rather than saw him swing silently into the saddle.
          "We must go back," he whispered, his hand on her bridle rein to guide
            the reversed order of things. 'We won't even whisper any more. Voices
            are the very dickens for carrying."
          When they arrived at the Blackburn farm, a light was shining through the blinds of the
            front windows indicating the presence of. some one who had not yet retired for thenight.
            They dismounted and Sammy crept cautiously up to the windows, but the blinds were drawn
            close and he could see nothing.
          "I am sure it is all right; some of the family are at home," said
            Sara, in a low voice, her face showing white with fatigue through the dim sug- gestion of light altering through the curtained window.
            " I am going to knock at the door now. I know they will take me
            in."
          But Sammy forestalled her intention by pushing her gently behind him, the
            soldier's instinct prescribing caution even in the house of friends. If there
            should be unsuspected trouble, his to bear the brunt of it, not this gentle
            girl's who had come to rely upon him since that first distrust which had
            carried her on swift feet to the cellar. He rapped lightly.
          "Who is there?" a low voice responded.
          "It is I, Sara Brown, Mr. Blackburn," the girl called, clearly,
            stepping forward, and Sammy gave way, assuming that she had recognized the voice.
            "Won't you let me in? So much has happened--"
          The door opened before she had finished her sentence, and, with a piercing scream, Sara
            cowered back and then sank unconscious into Sammy's ready arms. Hank Halstead
            and a number of other men stood in the lighted interior with revolvers leveled at the
            door.
          "Come right in, Miss Brown. Glad ter see you. Come right in, I say. Do
            n't hold it gin me 'cause I did n't git your horse like I
            promised. I was--unavoidably detained, eh, Sammy? Come in ter our hospitable home, both
            o' you."
          Without an instant's hesitation, Sammy stepped
            over the threshold carrying Sara in his arms. There was a bed in one corner of the room,
            four-posted, high with its voluminous feather-tick, immaculately clean and tidy as
            befitted a "settin' room" bed, covered with a closely
            quilted, patch-work counterpane, and here he laid his burden.
          "Bring some water, somebody, she has fainted!" he ordered, and Hank
            himself hurried forward with a brimming dipper.
          "Poor little girl," whispered Sammy, softly, paying no more attention
            to the grinning faces surrounding them than if he and Sara had been alone in the
            universe. "It is awful to be a woman in war time. You have been so brave all
            day. I wonder you stood the strain so long. Poor little girl, poor little
            girl."He was smoothing her forehead gently, caressingly, as he spoke, pushing
            back the rain-wet hair from the closed eyes.
          Presently, she opened them and looked up into his face for a moment as if trying to
            recollect something.
          "What is it, Sammy," she whispered, inquiringly, like a child, her
            hand clutching his coat sleeve in the vague fear of the known, and then, as he would
            have soothed her, she gave a little frightened gasp of understanding. "Oh do
            n't leave me," she begged, in terror. "Do n't leave me with those dreadful men! The Colonel will forgive
            you when you tell him how all alone I was."
          "You need not be afraid that I will leave you here alone," Sammy
            promised, unconscious of the grim irony of the assurance in his desire to comfort her;
            and then to further calm her terror, he asked, smilingly, still absolutely ignoring the
            presence of the Guerrillas, "How did you know that my name was Sammy? That is
            what they call me back in Indiana."
          "I think I must have heard someone call you that--your friend, Zack, most
            likely, or maybe that Guerrilla leader, he seems to know you. Forgive me--I did not
            think what I was saying."
          At that moment, a man hurried into the room from outside and the rest, who had relaxed
            their vigilance and were lounging carelessly about when it had been ascertained beyond
            doubt that the young infantry lieutenant and the girl were really alone, hastily secured
            their arms and sprang to attention.
          "What is it, Dan?" asked Hank, quickly. "A company of Union
            soldiers on the road coming this way. They are distant not more than a half
            mile."
          "Cavalry or infantry?"
          "Cavalry."
          
          "Then we have n't a minute to lose. Fellows, what shall we do with
            the prisoners? The Feds won't stay long when they find nobody here and rations
            all et up even to skins and bones. What of Blackburn did n' make way with his
            ownse'f before his sudden call to leave the entry by polite invitation, we
            managed to dispose of our ownse'ves. Here, boys, bind these here prisoners and
            gag'em and put 'em down cellar. They'll be safe if
            you're pertic'lar 'bout the gags."
          His instructions were carried out to the letter, while Sammy looked on in helpless
            rage, chafing sorely under the restraint of honor--honor to his country and honor to an
            unprotected daughter of his country--which forbade his pursuing his private quarrel with
            this man and leaping at his throat, regardless of consequences to himself if only the
            fiend in human shape who had put out the life of Gerry Goodman might writhe in the dust
            and die.
          "All's fair in war, ye know, Sammy," said Hank, with an
            atrocious grin, as the gagged and bound young man was being borne to the now open and
            waiting trap in the floor, "and I do n't hold it agin you that you
            knocked me down over yander to old man Brown's and left me. I 'low
            I'd o' done the same to you if I'd o'had the
            chanct-like I'm a-doin' now. Bye, bye, Sammy, we won't be
            gone long!"
          
          Lying side by side on the damp and musty floor of the dark cellar, Sammy and Sara could
            hear the shuffling of feet overhead as the men hurriedly left the house, and then the
            muffled beat of hoofs as they rode away, the sound gradually growing fainter and fainter
            until it could no longer be distinguished from the soughing of the wind so that they did
            not know when they ceased to hear it. For Sara, there followed a moment of blank
            despair, but Sammy's heart was thrilling high with hope. Surely, surely, there
            would be some way of acquainting those Federal cavalrymen of their presence in the
            supposedly deserted house. He racked his brain in the effort to think of a way, never
            ceasing for a moment, meanwhile, his laborious attempts to loosen his gag or the rope
            that manacled his hands and feet; and while he worked, there came the clatter of hoof
            beats which came to an orderly halt outside the door. A number of men dismounted and
            entered the house.
          "Hello! Hello! Anybody here?" some one of them called out.
            "If there is, he evidently does n't intend to say anything about it.
            Confound it, it is as dark as Egypt in here!"
          The Guerrillas had evidently extinguished the light before riding away, but the
            soldiers must have succeeded in securing one for soon the same voice continued:
          
          "From the looks of things, somebody has been here very recently, but, also,
            from the looks of things, I see no chance of getting anything to eat either for man or
            beast, so we might as well move on."
          Sammy's heart sank within him at the words, and as the men left the house, he
            grew desperate and tugged and strained with all the strength he possessed. He realized
            that the Guerrillas would return as soon as the soldiers were far enough away to insure
            safety for such a procedure; and he knew further that with Hank Halstead as leader
            neither he nor Sara need hope to be treated with even the ordinary decency of prisoners
            of war. In the first place, the Guerrilla bands were accountable to no one--their own
            will was their own law. In the next place, he felt that Hank Halstead would consider no
            atrocity too low for him to resort to in order not only to put out of the way enemies of
            the southern cause, but to silence effectually that past which had been in such imminent
            danger of speaking out loud ever since the unexpected encounter at the Browns'
            front door. A cold sweat broke out all over his body. He was so helpless, so helpless,
            and the girl whom he had taken in and fed and warmed and comforted at his own fireside
            was--so sweet. Was there nothing he could do for her? Must she suffer all of it--all --ah, God, the thought was not to be endured. He thought of
            Mollie and the little Ama Jane, and how their lives had been shadowed for all time by
            the same murderous hand which now threatened this other girl who had come into his llfe.
            When the sound of the last faint hoof-beat had died away in the distance, he made one
            last frantic effort to tear himself loose from the thongs that bound him--only to fall
            back weak and panting from exhaustion, helpless, hopeless, despairing utterly.
          How long he lay there, he never knew, but it could not have been very long, for when
            once more he was roused from that lethargy of weakness and exhaustion by the insistent
            repetition of the sub-conscious thought that the so-called bush-whackers might return at
            any moment, there was still no sound of their coming. He had been granted a short
            reprieve in which to think--to think--to think--if only-perhaps he might--. He wormed
            himself around until he could rest his head on the first step of the rude stairway and
            experienced a faint thrill of hope. If only they would stay away awhile longer--just a
            little while! He rubbed the back of his head back and forth across the edge of the step,
            back and forth, back and forth, until he was dizzy and sick from the exertion; but at
            last, to his great joy, he felt the bandage begin to loosen, and finally it slipped down from his mouth. In a voice of passionate
            relief, he whispered what he had done and told Sara to be of good cheer and to hope on.
            He next wormed himself over toward her, whispering to her to lie on her side with her
            back toward him, and succeeded, by almost superhuman effort, in undoing with his teeth
            the knot which bound her hands, straining every faculty of hearing, meanwhile, in
            listening for returning hoof-beats to sound through the deadening rain and sleet. At his
            direction she then felt quickly in his pocket and secured his jack-knife. The rest was
            easy. In a moment, they were free, cold and cramped and unsteady, but free with the
            blessed freedom of hands and feet and voice.
          With all the haste compatible with their cramped condition, they climbed the rickety
            stairs and fled to the out-of-doors. Their horses, of course, were gone; but they
            themselves were unfettered, and out where the night was very dark and the world very
            large, and Sammy's soul sang an exultant Te Deum.
          "There is another family a mile or so up the road," whispered Sara,
            "with whom I could stay unless they, too, have fled the country."
          "You are so tired!" murmured Sammy.
          "Not any more--not out-doors," insisted Sara, pluckily, so they
            started up the road.
          
          They had proceeded but a short distance when they were compelled to creep into the
            deeper shadows of the trees bordering the road to let a company of horsemen pass by, and
            they watched them silently as they turned into the way leading to the house so lately
            vacated.
          "We did n't get away from there any too soon," muttered
            Sammy, and again they hastened forward.
          To their infinite relief, they found the family at home this time and very friendly.
            Sammy's orders, however, forbade his acceptance of the hospitality urged upon
            him by the good people of the house, and he merely lingered long enough to assure
            himself that Sara would be perfectly safe and comfortable in her new environment before
            setting out on his return journey. There was not a horse left on the place. These had
            all been confiscated either by regular troops or by Guerrillas. In this dilemma, Sammy
            was at a loss to know what to do. On foot, he realized that his chances for reaching
            camp by daybreak were very slight. But desperate straits demand desperate remedial
            meaures. Suddenly, a daring thought washed through his brain. It squared his shoulders
            and lighted his eyes, so that Sara, walking to the gate with him to bid him God-speed,
            asked, wonderingly:
          "What is it? What are you going to do?"
          
          "Never mind--now. I'll tell you some day--if I live."
          At the gate, she slipped out of Zack's rough army cloak, and he took it
            silently.
          "Can you manage it?" she asked, softly, unmindful of the dash of cold
            rain that drenched her. "I wonder if I could n't find a way to send it
            back tomorrow? It will hinder you so. If you only had a horse--"
          "Do n't worry about me--I can manage it," he replied,
            abruptly.
          "Good by," she said, holding out her hand. "Good by, and
            thank you for--everything. It seems such a trivial word, sometimes, does n't
            it--thank you--considering that we use it on any and every occasion, from saving life
            to--passing the bread. But we have no other, so--thank you and good
            by."
          He had taken the proffered hand and still held it silently. When she would have
            withdrawn it, he drew her to him quickly and kissed her on the lips.
          "Good by," he said, "but I shall see you again. I am coming
            back. I will write to you at Linn to let you know how Selvin gets along.
            Good-by!"
          He looked longingly for a moment down into the grave, startled eyes, kissed her again,
            released her, and hurried down the road. When he looked back, pulses throbbing
            riotously, she was still standing there in the rain and
            sleet, faintly outlined against the dim glow of light that reached her from the open
            doorway.
          Sammy reasoned that the Guerrillas would without doubt jump to the conclusion that the
            soldiers had released the prisoners, but he could not know whether or not for other
            reasons they might still linger around the house for any length of time. Undoubtedly,
            they had kept close track of the movements of the little troop of cavalry and would
            therefore have no fear of being trapped. When he came to the turn in the road, he could
            see a light in the house and hear voices outside and the moving of horses. Now was the
            time come to put into execution the wild, exceedingly hazardous plan which had flashed
            through his mind awhile back, daring all on one bold move which would mean everything or
            nothing, camp by daybreak or destruction.
          The house was surrounded by trees, a large grove of them, and, slipping from tree to
            tree so as to keep a thick trunk ever between him and possible surprise, he crept
            forward, maintaining a sharp outlook all the time for sentinels. Coming closer, he could
            dimly discern horses tied to trees and men moving about. Some were on the ground holding
            their horses, others were mounted, lounging carelessly in their saddles. As he stood
            motionless, awaiting his chance, scarcely breath- ing in
            the intensity of his desire to escape notice, a man opened the door a stream of light
            was sent out over the graveled walk. After closing the door behind him, the man walked
            up to one of the horses, untied it and mounted, leisurely enough and yet with decision,
            too, and then stood as if waiting. It looked to Sammy as if a general move was imminent
            only awaiting the advent of some one, Halstead probably, and he decided that he dare not
            delay longer. He stepped quietly but boldly up to one of the horses, unfastened the
            bridle strap without undue haste, and swung into the saddle, gambling on the mere chance
            that if noticed at all in the deep gloom of the night, he would be taken merely for a
            comrade mounting his own animal as others were doing, the very boldness of the design
            exempting him from suspicion.
          He edged away quietly little by little until completely lost in the gloom of the trees
            and the outer dark, and then walked his mount back to the main road. Reaching it
            unobserved, he suddenly spurred up his newly acquired property and raced back over the
            way he and Sara Brown had so lately traveled.
          There was a hint of approaching dawn in the sky when he reached camp, and the army was
            already in movement, getting ready to cross the Osage at daybreak.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XIII
          SAMMY ACQUIRES JOHN
          IT WAS in the air--battle. Sammy felt it, Zack felt it,
            Curtis's whole army felt it. Many times before had they thought real fighting
            was imminent during the long, fragmentary, disappointing, cruelly wearisome campaign in
            pursuit of Price; but this was different, somehow. Then they had merely thought; now
            they felt. Apparently, to the rank and file a least, there were no more indications of
            an approaching fierce struggle than there had been divers times before; and yet, there
            it was--sobering men's faces, filling their pockets with loving letters to the
            folks at home, just in case it should come, without warning, when there might be no more
            time. The War of the Rebellion was too young then for the soldiers to laugh and jest
            with death on the eve of battle as more seasoned veterans would have done--as they
            themselves did later on. There it was--the prescience--with no more reason for it than
            that the air was surcharged with it, and the men could no more escape the infection than
            they could help breathing in the air that harbored it. And
            yet when it came--Pea Ridge--it came as a surprise. The way of it and the time of it and
            the place of it were not as any one had thought or planned. How they had longed for
            it--all those splendid young volunteers assigned to the Army of the Southwest! None more
            than the Eighteenth Indiana! No one more than First Lieutenant Samuel Goodman of Company
            E! Sitting in a small blacksmith shop, however, three miles to the south of camp, in
            charge of a picket guarding the telegraph road, in momentary expectation of being
            gobbled up, Sammy was not so eager for the approach of the enemy as he had been.
          They had driven Price from Springfield and had forced him back upon the boasted rebel
            stronghold of Cross Hollows with scarcely more than a complimentary exchange of shots
            between their advance and the Confederate rear guard protecting Price's
            retreat. The pet plan of compelling Price to resign all hope of bagging Missouri into
            the net of Secession by driving him from the state was accomplished. By a masterly flank
            movement, they had even compelled the Confederates to vacate that supposedly impregnable
            position at Cross Hollows--and the men had so counted on a big, decisive battle there!
            When Curtis decided that it would not be prudent to pursue Price into the Boston
            Mountains, Davis's Division had been ordered to
            move back to Sugar Creek, a distance of about twenty miles. Here was the telegraph road
            which must be held in order that communication might be maintained with Springfield and
            Rolla and over which supplies must come, besides being the line of retreat if retreat
            were necessary. Two or three days later, General Van Dorn took command of the rebel
            forces, and on March fourth, General Curtis learned that he had concentrated many of the
            scattered Confederates and was marching to meet him. General Curtis immediately sent
            orders to all his outlying troops, scattered many miles apart in order to subsist in so
            far as possible on the country, to concentrate at Sugar Creek, and he himself hastened
            thither with General Carr's Division.
          It was the morning before his arrival that Sammy was sent out on picket duty in command
            of fifty men. An unconscionable distance it was, too, three miles from camp. It made the
            shivers run down his back to think of it--all the more so on account of that prescient
            battle atmosphere pervading the whole army. The only cavalry with Davis's
            Division was the First Missouri, with Curtis somewhere in the neighborhood of Cross
            Hollows, which had necessitated the throwing out of the infantry picket line at this
            unusual distance from camp, there being no vedettes to
            patrol the outer reaches. Sammy, still nervously conscious of disagreeable, premonitory
            shivers down his back, estabshed his headquarters at a small country blacksmith shop
            just west of the main road and across from a farmhouse. The road ran through a field
            comprising twenty or thirty acres, on every side of which was thick forest. To the left,
            was rough, broken land bordering Sugar Creek Ravine; a mile or so to the right was the
            Bentonville road, and to picket the distance between, nearly a mile, was
            Sammy's duty.
          He threw out his men on duty line just south of the clearing, on both sides of the
            road; dividing the reserves so that the outstanding pickets would be relieved every two
            hours, as usual. When evening approached, he retired to the dull glow of the fire
            builded in the forge of the deserted blacksmith shop, there to wait and dream the night
            away in the walking dreams which, when day comes, seem even more unreal and fantastic
            than real dreams, those airy children of legitimate slumber. It was snowing again--it
            almost seemed as if one might say it was still snowing--a cold, clinging, spring snow
            that fell steadily all the night long from an inky sky. It was a harsh night for
            under-fed and under-clothed soldiers, exhausted from their long, wearisome campaign,
            with only the meagre comforts of a resourceless camp at
            the tail end of a trying campaign; for the solitary men arduously patrolling the rough,
            broken wooded line between Sugar Creek and the Bentonville road, it was cruel. Even the
            bluffs adjoining Sugar Creek were densely tree-studded, and so much heavy timber
            engendered a curious, trapped feeling, so that one was conscious of fostering a fierce
            desire to thrash one's arms out and break away--just to see if one could. Even
            to Sammy, woods born and bred, such an impulse came, though he laughed it away. He was
            conscious of an odd, stifled sensation, which reminded him of a night when he and Zack
            were boys and a ghost bad walked the woods at home.
          It was as if the ghosts of all who had already died for the southern cause were met to
            jeer at the lonely, slender young fellow sitting in the gloomy, weather-beaten, deserted
            shop, in the dead of night, away down in the heart of the enemy's country,
            while they waited in gloating glee for the first tramp, tramp, tramp, of the mighty,
            reinforced armies of Van Dorn. Countless times, Sammy imagined that sound during the
            seemingly endless night, well knowing that if the rebel horde did come marching up the
            road from the south, the chances were all too sure that rebel cavalry would cut off the
            retreat and gobble up the little command before it had time to fire once and die. Ah, well, that was a picket's duty--to
            give warning to the encamped army of the approach of the enemy--to shoot and run--and if
            grim fate decreed shoot and die; so be it, if only all might be well
            with the army. It could never be said of the death of a picket, however obscure and
            unknown, that it was the death of a coward or deserter. It would be a lonely death, and
            it was man's little weakness to want to die, if die he must, in the thick of
            the fight where the roar of the cannon, the blur of smoke, the surge of men--his
            fellows--and the glimpse of the colors through rifts in the enveloping, low-lying
            pungent powder smoke, crowned him with the inestimable gifts of the battle madness; so
            that physical dread was swallowed up in a strange exaltation of spirit. That was the
            glory of war, as old man Carmichael had so often and so glowingly portrayed it to the
            thrilled hearts of boys gathered around the fireplace of a winter's night. It
            was one with the "pomp and circumstance" of war, of which the cheers
            of the multitude, the beating of drums, and the fluttering of flags and handkerchiefs
            had played so important a part when the boys marched away to the front. But the
            lonelydeath of a lonely picket when fear had stalked by his side all the lonely night
            through--that was one with real war, naked, ugly war, a part with the screams of the frightfully wounded, the heart-clutching jabbering of
            the feer-striken or the pain-and-thirsty-mad, the pitiful moaning of the dying, the
            awful quiet of the dead; and that is the side of war which abides longest in the
            thoughts of a picket. But, after all, Sammy's thoughts ran on, it would be no
            lonelier a death, perhaps, than Gerry Goodman had been called upon to endure--and all
            death is lonely enough; one meets it alone, and one goes out with it alone.
          Again and yet again, gazing into the dull fire with sombre eyes, listening to the soft,
            continuous pelting of the snow against the dim and dirty window frames, while idle anvil
            and hammer, odd wheels, piles of rusty horse shoes, and empty kegs, rising dimly out of
            the gloom, presented strange and fantastic shapes, his mind dwelt on thoughts of the
            cold, hungry weary, and solitary boys out on that lonely picket line, tramping back and
            forth, back and forth, back and forth, over the rough ground, no fire for warmth or
            cheer, no companion but the pitiless night. From them and him and their plight if the
            reported concentrated armies of the South did come that night, his thoughts wandered to
            the probable fate of the army under such a condition. A mere fraction of an army it was,
            not more than ten thousand men in all, perhaps, right in the midst of the enemy's country, one road only open to relief, retreat, or
            supplies, a devastated and starved region round about, army-ridden and plucked until
            mule steak threatened to become a popular delicacy. Rumor, aided and abetted by
            imagination, pictured an overwhelming force steadily marching up the road from the
            South. Poor little army of the Southwest! Suppose Davis could not hold the telegraph
            road till Curtis came in the morning! It would be cut off, trapped, surrounded,
            swallowed up, literally shot to pieces and left to rot in this God-forsaken pocket of
            the enemy's country. And then he thought of the folks at home, of his toil-worn
            and saddened mother, of the little sisters patiently doing his chores and
            Herbert's of a cold, gray morning before the sun was up or by lantern light of
            a night of early dark, and of how they must keep on doing them forever and forever if
            Herbert and he never came back, and he thought of that splendid big brother, an army
            surgeon now, fulfilling his high calling somewhere out at the front.
          A little past midnight, he was called out upon the line. It was nearly time for a
            change of shift. The sentinel was weary-eyed and pinched with cold but he had not slept
            at his post. He was greatly excited and Sammy experienced a momentary heart-throb of
            apprehension. The man acted as if he had halted the
            advance guard of the whole rebel army. He explained that he had heard nothing, seen
            nothing, had no warning whatsoever of the approach of any living creature until this
            nigger boy had risen like a spectre in his path so suddenly and unexpectedly that he had
            nearly stumbled over him. The boy could not give the countersign, and he had called the
            corporal of the guard, who, in turn, could get no satisfaction out of the trembling
            culprit more than the oft-repeated and stumbling statement that he had something to
            tell, so they had considered it a matter for the Officer of the Guard's
            personal attention.
          It was not unusual for colored people, even at that early date, to flock to the Union
            armies for protection and the hope of freedom, gloriously unhampered by any fear or fret
            of tomorrow's bread, deeply distilled in the faith that "de Linkum
            sogers" could and would do anything; but this stealing up in the dead of night
            of one solitary, shivering, speechless, not yet grown lad of seventeen years or
            thereabouts was unusual to say the least. Most of his kind had been delightfully frank,
            airily unconcerned over questions of the wherewithal to feed and clothe and house this
            troublesome swelling of numbers with no corresponding gain in fighting power, to say
            nothing of possible qualms as to harboring runaway slaves
            in contempt of property rights, communicative to garrulity, touchingly unafraid and
            trusting. This boy was seemingly secretive, unfriendly, afraid. But Sammy, noting the
            slightness of the thinly clad, shivering form standing just beyond the point of the
            sentry's bayonet, relented toward him somewhat for being the direct cause of
            his being routed out on such a bitter night on what would doubtless prove to be but a
            wild goose chase.
          "Poor devil," he said commiseratingly, in an undertone. "He
            does n't look very dangerous."
          Aloud, he demanded, more sharply than he felt, "What are you doing here at
            this time of night?" and the boy sensed the authority at once and met it with
            the unquestioning docility of his race.
          "Please, sah, I's run away."
          "Run away? And from whom?"
          "From de 'Fed'rate Army, please, sah."
          "Where was the Confederate Army?"
          The boy hesitated. "Is you de Gineral?" he asked at last, looking
            artlessly up into Sammy's face.
          "General who?" Sammy counter-questioned.
          "De Gineral ob de Union Army?"
          " Why, no, John--if that is n't your name, it'll do as well
            as any, I reckon, for the present, anyway--I regret to have to tell you that I am not the General of the Union Army, but I am in command of a
            very small part of it tonight and you may tell me your troubles freely. In fact, you
            must tell me why you were sneaking through the Union lines at this time of
            night."
          "Bress de Lawd, you is a Linkum soger, then," exclaimed the boy, with
            an unmistakable note of relief in his voice. "I thort I must hab come that fur.
            I's come a right smart ways, please, sah, Marse GineraI, I has dat.
            I's most wored mah shoes off, but that ain't nothin' if
            I's foun' you at last."
          "Then tell me how far you have come, and where you started from,"
            said Sammy.
          "Yes, sah, Marse Gineral," said the lad, submissively, his teeth
            chattering with the, cold. "I's done run away from Gineral
            McIntosh's army."
          Sammy started, then he laid his hand eagerly on the negro's shoulder.
            "Come with me to the fire, John. I want to talk to you some more and you are
            pretty cold, are n't you?" He grasped the young fellow firmly by the
            arm and led him back to the shelter of the little shop, the lad stumbling over the dark,
            rough way as if unwilling to go, but he was only spent with faintness and fatigue as
            Sammy realized with a shock of pity when the firelight on the forge revealed the gray
            wanness of the thin, dark face.
          
          "Are you hungry, John?" he asked, quickly.
          The boy had dropped to the floor as if dead, and he lay crouching before the fire,
            while the snow which he had brought in on his garments rapidly melted into dirty little
            pools of water beside him.
          "Yes, sah, please, sah, Marse Gineral, I is," he said, a light
            leaping into the soft, brown eyes.
          "Well, John," said Sammy, with a humorous sigh as he surveyed a bit
            of the rindy heel of a side of bacon and a handful of parched corn which he had fished
            up from somewhere, "it is n't much, but such as it is, you are welcome
            to--my breakfast. Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we may die and in
            God's truth, that's no lie, either. Here 's a sup of coffee
            left in the pot. I had it on the fire to keep me from sleeping too soundly. Drink it
            boy, and do n't quibble about it. I want you to get on with your
            story."
          "'Deed and 'deedy, sah, Marse Gineral," stammered
            the boy, sobbingly, "I cain't take you--all's breakfast--deed
            I cain't. I's done waited a long time already and l kin wait a while
            longer--'deed I kin. I's used to it--'deed I
            is."
          "Eat, I say!" commanded Sammy, shortly, to cover some natural emotion
            at sight of the boy's starved condition. "I can wait, too, I reckon, and the rest of the men won't see me
            starve. They'll divvy up when the time comes. Now, eat!"
          Thus adjured, the negro ate greedily of the bacon and the corn and drank the
            coffee--Sammy's proposed breakfast--and if the young officer watched, ruefully,
            the last burnt kernel slip down the ravenous throat, at least it was not grudgingly.
            When the last bit had disappeared, the boy folded his arms across his stomach as if he
            had been filled to repletion, and then looked up gratefully, adoringly, prepared and
            eager to tell all he knew if only he might win a smile or a word of satisfaction or
            commendation from "de Gineral ob de Linkum sogers."
          "I's done runned away from Gineral McIntosh's army, please,
            sah, Marse Gineral. I belonged to Marse Medburton and I done stayed by him twel he died
            from de fever. He was a cunnel in de army, leastways dat is what dey-all call him, Canel
            Medburton ob de Gineral's staff--Gineral McIntosh's own staff--and de
            Gineral he sot a heap o' store by mah oI' Marse, too. You see, dey all
            fit togedder down in Texas aginst dem ar Mex'cans, and hit seemed like as if
            dat ar fact made 'em kind o' related like, sames if dey was kin. When
            Marse Medburton he daid, I done runned away. He ain't need nobody servant no
            mo' and I was a-feared to stay with any o' de yudders, and I did n't dast to let 'em send me back
            home case I knowed I'd never git so clost agin to de Linkum sogers. I hearn
            Marse Medburton talkin' 'bout de proxinimity o' you-all, and
            I's boun' to git heah sooner or later case why you-all is
            a-fightin' fer we-all culled folks and I's boun' to
            he'p you all I kin. I knowed you-all was our frien's case I done hearn
            Marse Medburton say a heap o' times that you-all was gwine set all de niggers
            free if you ever got a chance, which would n't be twel he and all like he were
            daid and in de groun'. He daid now so mebbe 't won't be long
            now twel we-all is free. Marse Medburton, he were good to me--I'd a stayed with
            ol' Marse if he had n't died. Marse could n't git along
            without dis heah nigger, no-how. But I's a-feared o' de yudders and
            'sides I's boun' to fin'de Linkum sogers. So heah I
            is," he concluded, ingenuously.
          "When did you leave the army, John?" asked Sammy.
          "Day befo' yistiddy way long in de night," responded John,
            unhesitatingly. "I snuck away without nothin' to eat case why
            I's a-feared to ask fer any, thinkin' mebbe they'd suspicion
            I was plannin' on runnin' away, and I did n't dast to steal
            any case things to eat is powerful sca'ce as you knows on, I reckon, though
            ol' Marse allers did say de Linkum sogers was livin' on de fat o' de lan'--and dey'd hab missed de
            vittals and sent after me fer sho'. Marse he allers said I was a powerful good
            han' at knockin' a meal togedder out o' nothin' and
            he allers gib me somethin' if he had anything his own se'f. He was
            allers good to me, Marse was, but now he's daid, I's boun' to
            fin' de Linkum sogers. If you-all will let me stay with you, I'll tote
            yo' things fer you on de march and cook yo' meals and take keer on you
            if you gits de fever--"
          "And leave me when I'm 'daid,' eh, John?"
            interrupted Sammy, whimsically.
          "Not twel you's in de groun', please, sah, Marse Gineral.
            I'd tote you home to yo' mudder and den I'd come back to de
            army and fight--if they'd let me," replied John, earnestly.
          "Well, I hope I won't have to put you to the test very soon"
            said Sammy, with a smile, "but remember I am depending upon you to do that very
            thing--some day. Now, you must have come a long way if you started day before
            yesterday?"
          "Yes, sah, please, sah, Marse Gineral, least-ways hit seemed a right smart ob
            ways; but I's a-feared so I done hided ever onct in a while under de bushes,
            and I done slep' some, too."
          "About how many miles do you think you might have come?"
          "I don' know, Marse Gineral--mebbe fifty --mebbe two, three hundred--how'd I keep count creepin' under de
            bushes, and through de fences, and 'cross de fiel's?"
          "Where was your army encamped?"
          "I don' know, Marse Gineral."
          "Look here!" cried Sammy, sharply. "You are n't
            fooling with me, are you, John? You'd better not! Why is it that you do
            n't know anything all of a sudden?"
          "Hones' to goodness Marse Gineral, I is n't foolin'
            't all," cried the boy, earnestly. "I don' know
            nothin' 'bout where we was or how fur we come--I only know
            I's boun' to fin' you-all and he'p along the
            comin' o' the jubilee all I could. I did n' res' no
            mo 'nIfa'r I fa'rly had to, and when I thort I was
            bein' follered, I hided. I was boun' to find you-all befo'
            Gineral McIntosh did."
          "Now, you're talking, John! So McIntosh's army is marching
            this way is it?"
          " Yes, sah, Marse Gineral, soon's dey-all conjuncted, dey started dis
            yer way."
          "Who 'conjuncted?'" asked Sammy.
          "Why, dar was Gineral McCullough and Gineral McIntosh with all dem ar Texans,
            and den dar was Gineral Pike with all dem wild Injuns from somewhar what dey-all called
            de Injun Nation, and dar was Gineral Price what dey-all sayed done run away from
            you-all, and den dar was Gineral Van Dorn--he done comed from Richmon' or some place way on de yudder side o' de
            Mississippi. He's de big Gineral. I hearn 'em talkin'
            'bout hit while I was holdin' Marse Medburton's hawse. He
            would go to see de Gineral though de Gineral scolded him mighty hard--sayed he looked
            like a daid man and had orter be home and in bed, 'at de Souf could
            n't spar' him yit and ain't he shamed o'
            hisse'f? Marse were out o' he haid den with de fever, but I
            jes' could n't keep him in baid--he sho' was possessed.
            Marse, he done s'lute de Gineral real gallant and swung he hat cl'ar
            to de groun' and sayed to de Gineral, 'Dar'II be no
            mo' foolin' ner practice runs ner bullet holes in coat tails when de
            Texans git dar, Gineral,' and de Gineral he larf and he eye lit up and he
            sayed, 'You is right, Cunnel, dar'll be no turnin' de back to
            de enemy when de Texans git dar. We don' know how to do dat. We ain'
            never l'arned; and I spec's hits right late to teach us ol'
            wah hawses sich new tricks like dat-all.' Den ol' Marse he rode back
            to de tent and was as gentle as a lamb--seems like he min' were easy now and he
            could res'. I put him to baid and in 'bout a hour he were daid. He
            never knowed nothin' mo' after dat. He died out o' he
            haid."
          "Price with his Missourians, amounting to nearly our force, right
            there," Sammy communed with himself, "Albert Pike with his Creeks and his Cherokees, his Chickasaws, and his Choctaws, from
            the Indian Nation, fully five thousand of them--confounded outrage to make 'em
            fight, too, when everybody knows how mortal much they'd like to keep out of
            it--they've had a plenty of figting among themselves--fine examples we are to
            set 'em at it again--McCullough and McIntosh with that horde of dare-devil
            Texans; not a man under thirty thousand, all told, or I am very much mistaken. It begins
            to look mightily like 'Good-by, old Injy,' for the Eighteenth, all
            right, and 'Good-by, proud world,' for all of Curtis's little
            army, I'm afraid. Now, to get this information to General Davis. The fellow may
            be lying, but I think not; anyway, I'll let Davis decide that for himself. If
            the boy slept and hid good part of the time, and no telling how close they were in the
            first place, the pesky rebs may be right upon us any minute now." The thought
            made his face grow stern and keen again in a moment. "John," he asked,
            crisply, "did you hear anything else about their plans?"
          "No, sah, Marse Gineral, dat's all I hears. I thort mebbe if I could
            fin' de Gineral ob de Linkum sogers, he'd like to know 'bout
            all dem Ginerals being done conjuncted."
          "I think he would like to know about it John," said Sammy, rising to
            arouse a sleeping sergeant,  "and I am going to
            give you the opportunity to tell him about it yourself. Sergeant Jameson will show you
            the way. Be a good boy, John, and here, take this blanket or you'll never get
            there. Goodby, I'll see you after the battle."
          Shortly after the departure of John with the sergeant for headquarters, a staff officer
            rapidly approached the picket line, gave the countersign, rode up to the shop, and
            informed the officer that General Curtis with his staff would soon pass and that the
            troops were falling back. In the course of an hour, General Curtis with his staff and
            body guard passed through the line and halted for a few moments at guard headquarters.
            The snow was still falling andf the General was well wrapped from the cold and the wet
            in a great-coat with a fur cap pulled over his ears. He inquired the distance to General
            Davis's position, remarked upon the disagreeable weather, and rode on, leaving
            Sammy in a flutter of admiration for the man who had chased Price out of Missouri and
            who was not quailing now, in spite of the appalling gathering together of the foe. Not
            long after, the head of Carr's Division appeared, and soldiers continued to
            pass during the remainder of the night and well into the morning. There was a great deal
            of conjecture among the men as to the meaning of this retrograde movement, but the
            consensus of opin- ion seemed to be that General Price had
            been reinforced and was advancing to attack.
          With the morning, Sammy expected to be relieved; but hour after hour dragged by and no
            relief came. Such a state of affairs was unprecedented. He did not know what to think of
            it and it worried him considerably. No sounds of battle distant or near disturbed the
            calm brightness of the day, so welcomely clear and sweet after the storm and murk of the
            night. The snow melted rapidly and soon there was little left, but the roads were sloppy
            and bad. Rations were next to nothing, but no relief came.
          About noon of the following day, with rations absolutely exhausted, the little picket
            command heard artillery firing several miles off in the direction of Bentonville which
            was about nine miles distant.
          "Land o' Love, d'ye hear the shootin',
            Sammy?" asked Zack, who was on the reserve just then and had approached Sammy
            who was sitting in front of the little shop trying to fathom the meaning of the strange
            neglect to have him relieved from duty. "It 'pears ter me the
            battle's begun, an' I 'low we'd better be
            a-gittin' back ter camp purty mejum quick."
          "I think the rebels must have caught up with Sigel," Sammy replied.
            "He was at Bentonville when General Curtis ordered us all to come together and I do n't think he has come up as yet.
            He's generally behind time. He's pretty middling liable to be cut off,
            too, if he does n't watch out."
          "An' that's prezactly what's a-goin' ter
            happen ter us if we stay here any longer like idjits. Let's git out o'
            it, Sammy; what d' ye say?"
          "You are talking foolishness, Zack. You know we can't get out of here
            without orders."
          "They do n't recollect 'bout our bein' here.
            General Davis's got a powerful lot on his mind an' it ain't
            ter be wondered at if he did fergit us, but it ain't in the rules--or if it is,
            it had n't orter be--for a handful o' men ter agree ter be forgot,
            an' hang around, like a bunch o' fool sheep, or that-air fooler
            burnin' deck feller, away out here three miles from camp with Johnnie Rebs all
            around us an' us a-knowin' ll the time that we're bound ter
            be slashed to slathereens any minute. No Sirree. I 'low General Davis would
            thank you hearty for a remindin' him of his over-looktion. I tell you
            they've jist fergot us."
          "That may be; but if they have, that is our misfortune."
          Well, you're an officer an' I'm nothing' but a
            low-down, ornery private that hain't got no business ter go shootin'
            off his mouth this-a-way, but seein's how a Johnnie Reb is more'n
            likely most any time ter do it anyhow, I 'low I mought as well do it for once my ownse'f--do n't git many
            chancts an' that's a fact--an' I do say that it
            'pears ter me you're a-actin' right smart foolish,"
            and with this parting shaft, the stalwart backwoodsman turned away with a resigned but
            exceedingly mournful shake of the head.
          The firing continued to draw nearer and it was evident a fierce battle was raging not
            very far away. At last, off to the right, the smoke of the fight could be seen drifting
            up above the tree tops. Sammy slipped out on the line at the point nearest the
            Bentonville road where the noise of the conflict grew steadily into a deafening roar.
            Suddenly, crashing through the scrubby black-jacks, came a squadron of the First
            Missouri Cavalry, driven into the picket line, and, with a sinking heart, Sammy prepared
            to surrender his sword, never doubting for the moment that rebel cavalry had thus come
            upon him at last. He was vastly relieved to discover his mistake, and when the Major in
            command met him with the terse inquiry as to what he did there, he explained the
            situation simply.
          "Well, fall back at once," the Major commanded.
            "There's nothing to be gained by remaining out here to certain
            capture. You've been forgotten--that's all, and we have need of all
            the men we've got--even fools like you."
          But Sammy only shook his head stubbornly. He could not
            bring himself to desert his post until relieved by the proper authority.
          "Well," responded the Major, shortly, "if you can't
            take orders from me, at least I can take them for myself. I am going back--and you would
            do well to do likewise."
          He tossed Sammy a belt which he explained he had taken from a rebel during the battle,
            called to him once more to come on, and rode away. When the squadron had disappeared in
            the direction of General Davis's camp, Sammy returned to headquarters at the
            little shop in the clearing. The sun was already low in the West and the bare forests
            looming up all around, dark and forbidding barrier, seemed all the lonelier, all the
            more cruel and sinister by that dreary sense of being forgotten and left behind,
            enhanced by the riding away of that squadron of their own cavalry, and by the momentary
            expectation of the coming of the rebels. Suddenly, to his surprise, all sounds of battle
            died away, and the ensuing quiet was so unexpected that it was more nevre-rackng than
            the furor of sound had been.
          With the coming of night, the men urged withdrawing. Sammy absolutely refused to return
            to camp, but compromised by withdrawing the line to the north side of the field and
            placing the picket line in the timber. At ten o'clock, there being still no relief, he decided to send a messenger back to
            regimental headquarters and have Colonel Washburn ascertain why they were not relieved.
            The Colonel immediately went to Division headquarters, inquired into the matter, and was
            told by General Davis that in the excitement of the day and the re-adjustments of the
            line, this picket had been overlooked. The General promised that he would at once send
            out a cavalry relief; and along towards midnight, the hungry hearts of Sammy's
            forgotten command were rejoiced to hear the clanking of sabres as the horsemen
            approached, and soon the tardily relieved were marching wearily back to report to their
            regiment.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XIV
          THE FIRST DAY
          SAMMY and Zack, followed losely by the negro, John, who had insisted
            upon returning with the sergeant after repeating his story to General Davis, and by the
            rest of the command, hastened armyward, hoping to locate their regiment in ample time to
            insure their aching bones a good long rest and sleep before the activities which the
            morning was sure to bring forth. They were so dead tired that the almost overwhelming
            desire to lie down and sleep in their tracks had to be fought with unceasing vigilance,
            and the benumbing drowsiness overcome by sheer force of will. The midnight hour was so
            intensely dark that all landmarks were obliterated, as if a curtain had been lowered
            between, and were as if they had never been. When sent out upon the picket duty which
            resulted in their being forgotten, they had left the army encamped just across the
            creek. Recrossing it after a three days' absence, not thinking of the changes
            which the stress of preparing foray great defensive battle must necessarily bring about,
            they were startled to find no trace of man or beast in all
            the quiet forest world bordering that rapid little mountain stream called Sugar Creek.
            Moreover, as they pressed on, stumbling over the uneven ground, they were surprised to
            discover that they could see the stars shining overhead away up in the dark southern
            sky--hitherto blotted out by the heavy arched and interlaced branches of the forest so
            that many had thought the night was cloudy. Were they lost that the woods appeared so
            much thinner than when they had last traveled that way? But before they had gone far,
            they began to realize that they were traversing a veritable labyrinth of fallen trees,
            over which they stumbled or climbed as the case might be, and understood that these
            giants of the primeval forest had been felled by their own men to impede the progress of
            the enemy. So great and wearisome an obstacle in their way were the prostrate and piled
            up trees that, worried and exhausted as they were, they could not help taking pleasure
            in the knowledge that the blockade would be so effectual in delaying the approach of the
            armies of Van Dorn. The blocked roads explained the absence of the Union troops.
            Undoubtedly, they had fallen to the top of the hill to await the attack from that more
            advantageous position.
          When at last Sammy's little command reached the
            top of the hill and climbed wearily over the fortifications, they found
            Curtis's men bivouacked on the crest overlooking the valley. They were in line
            of battle except that they lay upon the ground asleep. The dark that was so thick in the
            valley was thinner up there on the hill top and in the faint suggestion of light the
            slumbering, blanket-wrapped forms presented a weird and spectral appearance, which was
            not the least influence, by any means, that set the hearts of the little bunch of
            stragglers a-quake at the certainty of what tomorrow's morning would bring
            forth. They had hungered for it. It was here. In this dark and ghostly hour before the
            dawn, it assumed its rightful proportions, undimmed by the strong light of day, of
            comradeship, of the vague, happy "Sometime." It was here, and it was a
            more awful thing than they had thought.
          The tents were all struck, loaded into the wagons, and corralled behind the new line,
            and locating their regiment under the changed conditions proved to be no easy task. It
            was only by dint of diligent search and minute inquiry, more than once arousing a
            slumbering soldier in the hope of gaining information and thereby running much risk of
            becoming the recipients of sleepy profanity rather than direction from the indignant one
            so outrageously disturbed, that the forgotten picket
            fnally stumbled on the Eighteenth and faded apart in the darkness. If any had thought,
            at sightof the weird, muffled forms on the hill top, to lie awake the rest of the night
            in shivering anticipation of the morrow, that one was agreeably disappointed. Each and
            every one dropped to his sleep like the dead, nor moved until aroused in the gray of the
            early morning; and the night before Pea Ridge was gone.
          The army was astir very early. Although the expected night attack had not materialized,
            doubtless owing to the blocked roads upon the perfecting of which temporary blockade
            General Dodge had so effectively busied himself for the last day or so, all realized
            that the coming struggle could be deferred no longer. The eyes and the thoughts of all
            were bent so steadfastly toward the south, where at any moment the rebel hosts were
            expected to appear. The morning was quiet and sunny and for a long time there was
            neither sight nor sound of the enemy. It was not until nearly nine o'clock that
            the prolonged booming of artillery disturbed the calm of the early day, and then men
            looked at each other in consternation; for the sound came from the rear. This is what
            had happened: During the night, the entire Confederate army had secretly taken a road
            between Bentonville and the Union quarters which intersected the telegraph road in the
            vicin- ity of Elk Horn Tavern, a small country hostelry on
            the highway, and thus gained General Curtis's flank and rear without his being
            any the wiser. He still looked to the southward confidently anticipating an attack from
            that direction. With the coming of day, scouts were sent out and General Curtis was
            startled to learn that the rebels were gathered in force around Elk Horn Tavern and
            between him and Springfield, upon which had rested the only hope of the Union army in
            the event of defeat and retreat. Now Springfield was cut off--with the masses of Van
            Dorn and Price directly across the telegraph road. It was not for nothing that
            Brigadier-General Samuel R. Curtis, veteran of the Mexican War, had been given command
            of the Army of the Southwest in preference to other aspirants who took his appointment
            over them much to heart. He wasted no time in idle speculation or in awaiting
            developments, but faced his troops squarely about and moved toward the north. General
            Carr of the Fourth Division, now the right wing of the army, whose pickets Price had run
            afoul of very early in the morning and thus precipitated the skirmishing around Elk Horn
            Tavern, advanced upon the army at the extreme right and was soon hotly engaged, while
            General Osterhaus of the First Division was preparing to advance a force of cavalry,
            artillery, and infantry to bring on the battle in front
            where both armies expected the main fighting would be. Meanwhile, the Third Division, of
            which the Eighteenth was to play so dramatic and heroic a part in the great battle
            before the day was over, remained in its original position on Sugar Creek, chafing under
            the forced inaction, compelled to listen to the tremendous and swelling fire two miles
            off to their right, which stirred their blood and called to them with such peculiar
            appeal that the restraint was almost more than they could bear; and yet they must remain
            out of it, apart from it. Verily, it was hard, for with the booming of the cannon had
            come the battle madness--and, moreover, it was the first real fight for many of them and
            they knew not what it was. Why? Why? Why? Their eager and passionate desire demanded
            ceaselessly. Why were they not rushed to the conflict? Surely, there was need of them.
            All together, they were too few for the reported hordes of Van Dorn. Why must they wait,
            idle and in smug safety, while their comrades bore the brunt of the terrible attack and
            would bear away the honors as well?
          General Curtis had wisely retained the Division in order to be prepared to repulse any
            approach from the south, providing the attack at Elk Horn Tavern proved merely a feint
            and the enemy's main attack still come from that direction as he more than half expected. About eleven o'clock, however, he
            became convinced that the attack at the Tavern was serious, and to the immense relief of
            the boys of the Third Division, Davis was ordered out, leaving only one regiment, the
            Eighth Indiana, to hold the position; and right dolefully did those left behind watch
            their comrades leave for the fray. But another surprise awaited the Division. Within
            only a half mile of the fighting line at the Tavern, a staff officer came galloping up
            in the utmost haste with orders for General Davis to counter-march and go to Lee Town,
            on the new left of the army. Mystified, the men proceeded to counter-march for a half
            mile or so and then took a road leading west and soon came to the little hamlet of Lee
            Town. At the edge of the village, they were ordered to throw off their napsacks and move
            forward. Heavy firing could be heard immediately in front, the near and sharp rattle and
            roar of the artillery startlingly distinct from that more muffled booming away over to
            the right, and yet mingling with it, someway, until that distant boom, boom, boom, came
            to seem like a prolonged echo of the nearer guns.
          After passing through the town, they met some cavalry under General Osterhaus who had
            gone forth in the morning, bearing prisoners with them, and the wounded. Two or three
            hundred yards more brought them to the Peoria Battery
            posted just to the left of the road on the edge of a field, and here they halted for a
            short time.
          Zack and Percy Selvin had been marching side by side, and at the first glimpse of the
            carnage real war had wrought, dead men lying stretched upon the ground, their ghastly
            faces turned unblinkingly to the bright sky, or crumpled up in a heap, or sprawled over
            a stump as they had fallen, Percy's face paled and he began to tremble
            violently.
          "Never you mind, youngun," Zack comforted, pityingly. "It
            ain't our turn yit by a long shot, an' do n't you ever fergit
            that a whole passel o' sogers always comes out o' battle without ary a
            scratch--an' jist a handful gits kilt. Pears-like the fightin's over,
            here, anyhow. Jist my ornery luck ter miss all the fun!"
          Color was slowly coming back into the boy's stricken face as Zack continued
            his good-natured rallying of his oozing courage; but a new and sudden look of wide-eyed
            terror on his countenance caused Zack to glance quickly in the direction upon which the
            boy's eyes seemed frozen with horror. In a bush immediately in front of them,
            the half of a man's head was hanging. Zack promptly placed his gigantic frame
            between the awful sight and the shaking Percy.
          "Now, look here, young 'un," he rallied, lightly "you hain't got ary call ter be
            payin' attention ter that air sort o' thing at all. You'd
            better be dead ter onct than ter be scared ter death ever time you see a dead man.
            You'd orter be 'shamed o' youself. Whatever would that air
            leetle gal back in Missouri that you've been a-tellin' me so much
            about think if she could see you turnin' pale before ever you was hit? I
            thought you said she said she'd be thinkin' 'bout you,
            an' had faith in you?"
          "She did, Zack, honest. I do n't deserve it, but she did say that
            very thing."
          "An' would be thinkin' 'bout you, did you
            say?"
          "Yes, Zack, she said that, too."
          "Well, can't you fairly see her a-doin' of it, with her eyes
            shinin' an' her purty smile clappin' you on? I kin see her my
            ownse'f. I tell you if I had a gal like that a-lookin' on, I would
            n't be a-feared o'--the devil himself--"
          "Nor 'hants'?" suggested Percy,with a faint smile,
            knowing Zack's weakness.
          "No, ner hants," pursued Zack, rashly and vaingloriously, it being
            high noontide; but he patted Percy approvingly on the shoulder, thereby acknowledging
            the justice of the sly thrust. "I 'low you ain't so bad off
            after all, if you kin joke yit. That air leetle gal o' your'n, now,
            she's most the purtiest thing I ever see-- always
            exceptin' Susie, o' course," wondering ruefully the while he
            cheered if he were being altogether loyal to Sammy, who, most likely, was also thinking
            about that same little girl back in Missouri.
          "How do you manage it, Zack?" asked Percy, wistfully. "I do
            n't want to be afraid. I am ashamed all the time. I have never yet seen you
            scared. Tell me your secret."
          "There 's a passel braver 'n me," replied Zack,
            soberly. " Ask them. Pattern yourself after our First Lieutenant, for instance.
            Why, he ain't even a-feared o' hants, Percy!"
          "But it's you, Zack, you, that I am looking to to help me through
            this awful time coming. What keeps you going straight ahead?"
          "Why, I 'low it's jist Susie a-lookin'
            on," said Zack, simply.
          The troops moved to the right and trotted down a woods road, which they had no sooner
            entered than the bullets began to whistle all around them like mad. For the life of him,
            poor Percy could not keep from wincing and dodging, and presently, he was lagging
            behind. A sharp prod in the back caused him to glance quickly over his shoulder, and
            there was Zack, his face no longer pityingly sympathetic, but stem, set, determined,
            prodding him forward with the point of the bayonet.
          
          "No more fallin' out for you my lad," he drawled,
            convincingly. "The Lieutenant said you was to have your chanct--not a skinny
            one, either--so I'm jist a-seein' that you git it, that's
            all. Do n't lag behind that-a-way! It's double-quick! Keep up, young
            'un, keep up! This here ol' bay'net has a powerful sharp
            pint. Keep up, I tell you!
          Sammy was trotting along by the side of the Captain. The bullets came whizzing along
            fast and furious, and often and often one could feel the breath of their rapid flight
            through the air upon one's cheek, and could hear them still going on, singing
            their sibilant song, until the sound of it was lost in the myriad other sounds of the
            battle. When one hissed past the Captain uncomfortably close to his head, he dodged, and
            Sammy laughed. He could n't help it. It was unpardonable, but the laugh was out
            before he could stop it.
          "What are you laughing at, ninny?" cried the Captain sharply.
          "I was laughing at your trying to dodge a bullet, said Sammy, honestly, but
            apologetically.
          "This is a pretty time to be laughing, I must say!" retorted the
            Captain, wrathfully. At another time, he, too, might have laughed with Sammy; but not
            today, with cannon thundering on every side, showers of
            grape and canister hurtling overhead, minie balls hissing past, with the acrid smoke of
            it all choking one and alternately hiding and revealing the awful sights of a battle
            field already fought over. Only the frivolous could find anything amusing under such
            serious circumstances--feather-brained, under-graduate youngsters who had played at
            drill on a university campus, like Sammy Goodman, for instance. The Captain had
            forgotten for the moment that it was on the University campus that he had marked and
            mentally chosen his First Lieutenant.
          After advancing about a quarter of a mile through this rain of lead, they came to a
            little field where they halted, although here the bullets were pattering down thicker
            and faster than ever. The men sought desperately to find protection behind trees at the
            edge of the woods, and here the Captain of Company E showed his mettle by standing
            boldly out in front keeping his men in order, where it was a thousand wonders he was not
            shot. He was brave man, the Company's Captain, there could be no question then
            or after as to that, but--the bravest sometimes dodge bullets. When one would come
            rather close on one side of his head, he would take his hand and brush along the side of
            his face as if shooing flies, and, the next moment, he would be doing the same thing on the other side.
          And then, suddenly, the field swarmed with men in blue falling back. The Second Brigade
            had been hotly engaged, and, sorely pressed by superior numbers, having practically
            faced McCullough's entire command massed to the west and north of Lee Town, was
            rushing back in more or less disorder. The Eighteenth and the Twenty-second Indiana
            regiments were ordered to form in the road running beside the feld and stop the rout.
            Colonel Pease, Chief of General Davis' Staff, undertook to reform the
            disorganized line behind these two regiments, and, being unable to find a commissioned
            officer among them, yelled, "Where are your officers? Are n't there
            any officers belonging to this gang?" Finally catching sight of a corporal, he
            cried: Corporal, you form these men!"
          After some order had been obtained, the two plucky regiments which had stood like a
            rock of refuge, in the kindly lee of which the broken and disorganied waifs and strays
            of those who had been literally over-ridden by the swarming of the myriads of the
            redoubtable McCullough had caught their breath and made ready to begin again made a left
            half-wheel through the field and went into the woods. To their utter consternation, they
            had no sooner entered the timber than the battery they had so lately left began shelling them. It was only a quarter of a mile behind them
            with scattered timber and open field between, and panic was imminent, for there is
            nothing so absolutely demoralizing to soldiers as to be fired upon by their own men. The
            enemy--that is what he is there for, they expect it, are braced for it, are upheld by
            the stimulation of being able to fire back, by the happy chance of returning, with
            usury, what they had received; but to have their own men suddenly open fire upon
            them--it was like having the bottom drop out of the universe, leaving them empty of
            resource, of reason, and of courage. It was with the utmost difficulty that a general
            rout was prevented. All were ordered to lie down, and Colonel Pattison of the
            Eighteenth, commanding the Brigade, directed a staff officer standing near to order that
            battery to cease firing, it was firing upon their own troops. The officer gave one
            quiet, comprehending glance into the flashing eyes of the commander, and then, without a
            word, turned and headed his horse straight toward the open field with its awful blur of
            smoke, straight toward the thunder of the cannon, straight toward the rain of shot and
            shell.
          Sammy drew his breath hard and his eyes shone. In the exaltation of spirit which had
            been his since the moment that the Division had been ordered out, he wished that it had
            been he who had been sent upon that journey from which the
            odds were so heavy against one's ever returning. Would they know him--their own
            men so devotedly but so mistakenly directing that deadly fire--would they recognize the
            gallant messenger in time to avert his death by their own hands? Gracious God in heaven!
            Sammy, stretched at length behind a fallen sapling, saw the young staff officer with
            steady hand and eyes come galloping down the line toward his company, close to which he
            must pass upon entering the exposed field, saw him sitting straight and strong and true
            in his saddle, one moment, and the next saw him reel slightly and fall to the ground
            shot through the heart.
          Many had heard Colonel Pattison's terse order and realized the importance of
            it; and one man, not quick ordinarily to see a fine point, who had never seen the time
            when he would not have welcomed "pneumony fever" as an indisputable
            excuse for staying away from school, who had lived to be nearly nineteen years old
            before seeing a railroad train, who would have died rather than look upon a
            "hant," grasped this thought that Colonel Pattison's message
            must be carried across that field, why not by him as well as by another, so quickly that
            the dead man's foot was scarcely dragged from the stirrup before his own was
            there in its place.
          
          "Why, Zack!" murmured Sammy, a lump coming into his throat and a
            smart to his eyes. "Why, Zack! Maybe you'll be killed,old chap! Why,
            Zack!"
          These specacular deeds of heroism are fine, soul-stirring things when performed by
            people you do not know--distant staff officers, for instance--but when it comes to
            "home folks," boys you have played hookey and three old cat with, gone
            swimming with, spelled down with, and taken up arms against the "Cracker Neck
            fellers" with, oh, it is still glorious of course, but "Why,
            Zack!" is the cry of the heart.
          With one flying leap, Zack was in the saddle, and whooping and yelling, beating the
            horse, which was nothing more than a small sheep pony, with his cap, his long legs
            nearly reaching the ground, he flew across the field and dashed recklessly right up to
            the front of the battery.
          "What in hell you a-firin' on our own men for?" he yelled,
            waving his cap in the air as a signal to cease mistaken hostilities.
          "A Yank! A Yank!" the men around the battery suddenly began to shout,
            and to his infinite dismay, Zack perceived that the rebels had taken possession of the
            guns, and thus the indiscriminate firing was explained.
          "Good Lord!" he muttered, under his breath and, turning the little
            sheep pony, he came back lickety click across that field
            in the shortest time, it is safe to assert, that that sagaious animal had ever made a
            smilar distance in all his sheep-herding life. Zack was no coward, as has been
            shown--except when ghosts were floating around--but during that short mad dash for the
            woods and the Eighteenth, he bade loving farewells to "Pore ol' Pap
            an' Mam an' the leetle tads an' the folks ter hum
            an'--an' Susie. Do n't fergit me, Susie, an' you kin
            marry some good stiddy man if you like--I do n't want you for ter be lonely all
            your life--a slip o' a gal like you needs ter be loved an' took keer
            on--only do n't plumb fergit me, dearie, will you? Sammy'll tell you
            how it come I could n't come back ter you myself."
          Why he was not killed was one of the miracles of the war, as he was in the midst of
            heavy cross fire from the rebel front and from the captured battery. By this time,
            Colonel Pattison was in a towering rage. He met Zack at the edge of the timber.
          "Did n't you order them to cease firing? Do n't you see that
            they are still shelling us? What do you think you went up there for--to pass the time of
            day?"
          "Yes, sir," replied Zack, respectfully, too dazed at finding himself
            safe and whole at once to enlighten the Colonel's mind as to his mistake, "I ordered them ter quit firin' on us all
            right, but I 'low they did n't see fit ter mind."
          "What do you mean, sir?" raged the Colonel.
          "The rebels have that battery, sir," said Zack, with dazed
            simplicity.
          The Colonel's surprise was not to be wondered at, considering the fact that he
            had but just left the battery in Union hands, surrounded by Union troops, with the
            Eighteenth and the Twenty-second between it and the immediate rebel front; but a
            considerable Confederate force had slipped in behind and taken the guns without his beng
            any the wiser. However, if his surprise was great, his quick recovery from it was
            greater. The advantage to the Confederates in the possession of the Union guns in that
            position was tremendous. The alert, military mind of Colonel Pattison grasped its
            significance instantly and he met the situation and conquered it with a brilliance and
            sweeping success that should have won him peculiar distinction at the War Department, as
            it did in the hearts of the Eighteenth Indiana.
          Immediately after Zack's return, the rebels who had taken the battery began to
            move up, making the welkin ring with that strange, piercing, insistent battle cry which
            had already come to be known as the rebel yell. When within sixty rods of the Union men
            waiting in the edge of the timber, they were met with a volley of musketry that was awful in its effect. These Indiana regiments carried the
            old muskets only, loaded with three buck shot and an ounce ball. They would not shoot
            far, sixty yards was about their limit, but they were terrible in the proper range, and
            the slaughter they wrought among that rebel advance was perhaps unique in history for
            the number of men lost in so short a time. The one volley was followed by the order to
            charge at once without reloading.
          The Union line was formed north and south, parallel with the east side of the field, to
            the south of which was the battery. With rush and a wild enthusiasm, the charge swept
            across the field. When about half the distance had been covered, a huge, fallen tree
            suddenly presented itself directly in the way of Company E of the Eighteenth,
            practically covering its entire front and the right of Company K. If kingdom was lost
            for the want of a horse-shoe nail, true it is that the battle around Lee Town, and if
            Lee Town mayhap Elk Horn Tavern and thus Pea Ridge--for what an infinite chain of
            difference in results one break would set going--came so perilously near being lost by
            the unplanned presence of a worthless, worn-out tree that the analogy holds good. The
            tree was heavily branched and really made a formidable obstruction, especially
            considering the fact that the men were under severe fire
            all the time. And now was the time come for the Eighteenth, all untried as was Sammy, to
            show the stuff it was made of. It may be that because always in the backwoods country he
            had been looked up to and made a leader, willy nilly, helped Sammy then; perhaps the
            sense of responsibility because of his better understanding, which had quickened his
            footsteps on a certain first day of school when the bright world of after-frost had
            steeped him in the wine of waiting and forgetfulness, helped him more. Certain it is
            that, when the company wavered, it seemed to Sammy Goodman that the one thing in all the
            world worth while was to keep the line from breaking. It must not break. Simply, it must not break. Oddly enough, he was not in the least frightened. He
            did not seem to have time to think about being afraid. There was room for nothing else
            in his mind but the straightening and strengthening of that fighting line. Bullets
            pattered all around him but he paid no more attention to them than if they had been so
            many snowflakes. He was at the left of the company, encouraging, rallying, commanding,
            his face flushed, his eyes shining. The killing of Colonel Hendricks of the
            Twenty-second caused much confusion and disorganization in the ranks of that regiment,
            which was communicated more or less to the left wing of the Eighteenth. Suddenly, the whole company, especially to the right, became confused
            and manifested a startling disposition to run, to follow the demoralized Twenty-second
            whose gallant Colonel lay dead upon the field.
          Sammy glanced hurriedly around, seeking the Captain. He could see him nowhere. He
            himself seemed to be the ranking officer. Rushing to the right, he met a sergeant on a
            frantic run to the rear. The face of the "non-com" was absolutely
            colorless and his eyes had a dazed, fixed stare as of one in a trance. They were glassy
            and frozen. He was brushing past Sammy without in the least recognizing him when Sammy
            seized his arm and shook him soundly, crying sharply:
          "Where are you going? What is the matter with you?"
          "We are whipped! We are whipped!" the sergeant cried, in a high,
            strained voice. "Run! Run! We are whipped!"
          "Whipped nothing!" snapped Sammy. "You are dreaming! Wake
            up, man! Go back to your company! Do you hear me? Go back to your company!"
          He turned the dazed man around and headed him for the front. The sergeant stared at him
            blankly a moment and then the light of reason slowly dawned in his eyes, called back to
            life by the irresistible magnetism of the young com- mander's personality. It was as if he had in very truth been in the grip of
            some hideous nightmare. He drew a long breath, and went back to the company without
            another word.
          Sammy then rallied that part of the line which had been so perilously near to breaking.
            Some of the men scrambled over the troublesome obstruction; others went around it. It
            seemed a thing alive, so insolently and vindictively had it thrust itself across their
            way. Hastening back to the left which he had but just brought to good order, he was
            momentarily dismayed to find it all broken up, mixing in the utmost confusion with
            Company K and others of the left wing. If, after all, Company E should be put to routl
            It must not be! It must not be! If his company bolted, it would take the entire left
            wing with it, leaving but five companies of the Eighteenth, the only organized force in
            that part of the field. It would be impossible for so small a force to drive back the
            swarming rebels and recapture the battery. In all probability, these companies would
            break, too. If Sammy's mind and heart a moment before had been singularly free
            of all else but the simple conviction that the line must be held steady, in some way, it
            mattered not how just so it was held, now more than ever were they so when he saw it
            tottering to dismay and defeat. Captain Lowe of Company K was mak- ing heroic but unsupported efforts to bring order out of chaos.
            Sammy plunged into the breach, and so irresistibly commanding was he in his magnifcent
            young manhood, so contagious was his enthusiasm, and so unquestioned his courage which
            ever cried, "Come!" and never, "Go!" that the left
            rallied to a man, and, with a rousing cheer, straightened the straggling line and sprang
            forward.
          Returning once more to the right, Sammy looked anxiously for the Captain, dreading to
            find him slain. Glancing along the now unwavering line, he was surprised to behold the
            Captain in front of Company C, the second company to the right, waving his sword and
            cheering on the men. Sammy ran to him and said in a low voice, "Captain,
            Company E is down this way."
          The Captain looked at him oddly a moment, somewhat in the same manner that the sergeant
            had a short time before; then he turned and quietly followed his First Lieutenant.
            Confused he was; never a coward. Super-excitement plays us strange tricks sometimes. A
            high sense of duty and a strong will kept him with his face to the enemy. That he was
            for the moment unable to differentiate between the companies was a mere matter of
            detail, lost in the throbbing of the mighty, main idea. Sammy never mentioned it, nor
            did he. The incident was closed.
          
          The charge, now composed of the unbroken Eighteenth with one company of the
            Twenty-second under plucky Captain Keith joined to its left, pushed on to complete
            victory. The rebels retreated before the compact rush and the battery was retaken
          Five minutes later, General Davis himself rode up. Where he came from, Sammy never
            knew, nor how he escped death or capture. His presence there was another of those
            unexplainable miracles of the war, which touched up the awful woe of it and made it
            bearable. Eyes burned and throats grew lumpy as the tired, over-excited, disheveled,
            powder-besmirched boys of the Eighteenth with the reaction from the exhilaration of
            their devoted charge already setting in looked up and beheld their gallant and beloved
            General descended upon them as from the clouds. His was a figure well worth their
            impassioned gazing upon, straight, alert, handsome, military, radiant, exalted,
            fearless. They admired him for his strict disciplinarianism, and forgot his hasty temper
            in admiration of his fairness and courage.
          "Men of the Eighteenth Indiana," he ried, in a clear, ringing voice
            that all1 distinctly heard and hugged to their tired hearts and kept warm there forever,
            "Men of the Eighteenth Indiana, ten minutes ago, I thought the battle was
            lost--but you have saved it!"
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XV
          A GREAT VICTORY
          IF THE Eighteenth had known then what was learned later, that both
            General McCulough and General McIntosh had been killed during the afternoon's
            battle, picked off by Federal sharp-shooters, its rest would have been calmer that
            night; for, in the minds of many, McCullough was more to be feared than all the rest of
            the Confederate leaders engaged in that campaign put together. General McIntosh, too,
            had justified the proud boast of Colonel Medburton that there would be no holes in
            coat-tails when the Texans got there, by being shot squarely through the heart. But the
            Eighteenth did not know these things, and, as night closed in, the boys were tired, very
            hungry and troubled, nothwithstanding their recent splendid charge and glorious victory.
            They stayed by the battery until nearly eleven o'clock. The men had had nothing
            to eat since the leisurely early breakfast when they had so unsuspectingly waited for
            Van Dorn to come marching up from the south. They were chilled through and through and
            were for the most part, without blankets, having thrown
            them away at Lee Town. They had no other thought than that their lot was to bivouac
            there at the battery for the night, and the prospect was a gloomy one.
          About nine o'clock, some time after all fighting had ceased, Sammy, leaning
            against a bullet-ridden tree in the chily dark, sick with hunger, giddy for want of
            sleep, realizing how desperate was their situation unless the fighting was soon over,
            with no forage for man or beast, oddly and half-deliriously dreaming of five biscuits
            Mrs. Posey had made for Zack one morning long ago, elaborately explaining as she did so
            that "Pore Zack always eats more when he's sick," felt a
            light touch on his arm and heard a soft whisper:
          "Is dat you, Marse Gineral?"
          "Why, John, where did you come from, and how on earth did you get
            here?" cried Sammy, in startled surprise.
          "De Lawd knows--I don'. I only knows I's boun' to
            git heah an' heah I is," said John, simply. "I's
            done brung you some coffee, MarseGineral. Heah 't is, in dis yer ol'
            canteen. Now, don' you spill hit! Dar ain' no mo' whar dis
            yer come from--an' yo' han' so shaky I's a-feared.
            An' heah am some bread. Hab some o' de fat o' de
            Ian' ol' Marse was a-tellin' me about."
          "John," said Sammy, his voice as shaky as his "what a silly notion that is that in Heaven the angels will
            all be white regardless of color on earth. It would n't be Heaven without your
            black skin, boy. If I found you had turned a pasty white, I'd have to come
            away."
          Never did anything ever before taste so good as tasted that scanty meal of bread and
            coffee. Sammy felt a new man when he had finished.
          "I planted better than I knew," he murmured, whimsically but
            gratefully, "and my bacon rind has returned already. Talk about bread returning
            after many days, bacon rind has it beaten all hollow in point of time. But, John, where
            did you get all this richness?"
          "De bread I toted undah mah coat sence mawnin' befo' you-all
            stawted, an' de coffee I borrowed from somebody ovah yondah. Heah's de
            blanket what you done gib me de night I foun' you befo', an'
            what does you want yo' baid made, Marse Gineral?"
          About eleven o'clock, after most of the weary men had fallen asleep in their
            fireless bivouac, there came a whisper to get up and fall in line. What did it mean?
            Were they about to be attacked or were they going to attack? Were they to retreat or
            simply change their position? They moved out as quietly as they could, marched back
            through Lee Town, and on until they struck the telegraph road that led to Elk Horn
            Tavern; then turned north and marched about half a mile to
            field. Here the troops were ordered to file to the right and form line at the edge of
            the field with their left resting on the road, and were then allowed to get what rest
            they could. Then only was their real destination known. Four some reason, locked as yet
            in their great leader's mind, they were come to bolster up Carr's
            splendid right wing.
          Zack and Percy gathered brush and piled it in the lee of a large dead tree. Thus they
            were protected from the dampness of the ground and partly so from the chilling wind.
            They were comparatively comfortable and lay down to sleep; but the excitement caused by
            the mystery surrounding the movement just made had driven away the desire for sleep,
            unutterably weary as they were, and presently they drifted into low-voiced conversation
            concerning the events of the day and speculating upon what the morrow would bring forth.
            That fighting would be renewed with the coming of day, there could be but little doubt
            after their stealthy change of position in the night. Where the brunt of it would fall
            was a debatable question which would be answered by the rebel guns in the morning. The
            position of the main Confederate host was as unknown to Curtis's little army as
            were the terrors of the unknown seas to Columbus and his handful of men, and the shivering uncertainty was as hard to bear as was the
            superstitious dread of that earlier time. A strange hush brooded over the slumbering
            bivouac, the stranger for the surcease of the awful roar of the day's sounds.
            The fit only were here--the fighting line. The wounded were all in the rear, their moans
            smothered in the pitying distance; and the dead were left behind, and they were very
            still. The fit, yes, only the fit were here now, sleeping quietly and gravely beneath
            the dark canopy of the far off sky, blanketess, hungry, yet sleeping the short night
            through that they might be the more fit in the morning. When night should come again,
            there would be fewer asleep here in front, more back there; the line still fit, but
            growing very small.
          An hour of quiet.
          "Are you asleep, Zack?"
          "Nope. Not yit. I do n't seem skeered, an' I'm
            plumb wore out an' rheumaticky, an' yit, somehow, I can't
            seem ter git ter sleep. I 'low I won't git ary wink this night
            an' then I'II be the one laggin' behind an'
            you'll git a chanct ter stick me in the back, Percy. I hope
            you'll do it, too."
          "I can't sleep, either. I have been thinking about home. There are so
            few of us, Zack, and I'm afraid there won't be very many left to-- to tell the folks back home about it. I have a feeling
            tonight that I shall never go home again--that I shall be shot--"
          "In the back?" interrupted Zack, laughingly, hoping to divert his
            companion's somber thoughts into cheerier channels.
          "No, you won't let me," responded Percy, ingenuously.
            "I know it sounds babyish and all that to talk about dying, but I
            can't help the feeling--it's there--and if anything should happen to
            me tomorrow, I wish you would write to my mother. This is her address on this bit of
            paper."
          "You kin count on me for that," Zack assured him, earnestly.
            "I 'low your mother has a right smart o' book
            larnin'--jedgin' from her son--but I'll git Sammy to spell
            the big words. I never was much on the spellin' propersition. Skull's
            too durned thick, I reckon. But Sammy'll be right glad ter he'p me.
            What Sammy do n't know 'bout spellin' an' sich
            ain' worth a-puttin' in the book. I never knowed him ter miss on those
            belly-achin' words in the back. Sammy'll he'p me, so do
            n't worry."
          "Does he help you write your letters to Susie?" asked Percy, smiling
            faintly.
          "Nary a letter," replied Zack, serenely. "Why,
            Susie's jist my little sweetheart an' she do n't
            care."
          
          "And mother is just--my little mother, Zack, and she won't
            care," said Percy, softly. "I'd rather you wrote it every bit
            yourself, just you. You have been very good to me. I do not forget it--nor will
            she."
          "Then you have forgiven me for bein' so cross with you an'
            stickin' you in the back ter make you keep up? I did n't mean
            nothin' agin you, you know that, do n't you, but somehow I jist could
            n't abide seein' you disgrace yourself that-away."
          "Forgiven you? Why, you did me a very great favor, the greatest of all. As I
            have just said, I do not forget it. Our Lieutenant was good to me, too, Zack, but not in
            your way. He is so brave that he seems removed from me, someway on another plane; while
            you--you are just as brave and yet, someway, you seem to understand. But he has given me
            my chance--for the sake of the girl back in Missouri, because she asked it--"
            his voice was very low indeed then--"and, as you said, not a skinny one,
            either, and so, if I forget tomorrow, I hope you will shoot me dead."
          "All right," said Zack, cheerfully, "but I ain't
            a-lookin' for you ter be took that-away agin. Before this here war is over,
            you'll perform some brave act that'll make you famous."
          "If I can only have the nerve to stay by your side, Zack, through all the fighting we take part in, that will be sufficient for me.
            If I succeed in doing that, I shall be proud of myself--when the war is
            over."
          "I'm a-feared you'll be a mighty common soger if you do
            n't git any furder than ter foller me," rejoined Zack, soberly.
          "That is all I am trying to be--a common soldier."
          Shortly after sun-up the Confederates opened fire with thirty-six cannon and then such
            an infernal racket of grape and canister took place as the Eighteenth had never before
            faced; and then it was that the seer-like wisdom and the incomparable generalship of the
            leader of that brave little Army of the Southwest began to be apparent. He had not known
            that Van Dorn had withdrawn all his troops from Lee Town and concentrated them at Elk
            Horn Tavern to crush the Federal right wing early in the morning while Curtis's
            army was so widely separated and before Davis and Sigel could come up--but he had
            thought it likely. Hence the stealing forth in the night of Davis's
            Division.
          The First Indiana Battery could not stand the fearful cannonading which had opened up
            and fell back. Sammy came up to where Zack and Percy were lying flat upon the ground
            behind a tree.
          
          "This is rather bad, boys," he said, as he flung himself down behind
            a small sapling, no larger around than a man's wrist. He had hardly ceased
            speaking before it was cut off and fell over upon him.
          "How are you making out, Selvin?" he continued, as calmly as if
            nothing had happened.
          "Pretty well, thank you, Lieutenant," replied Percy, steadily, but
            shivering slightly as Sammy tossed the broken sapling aside.
          "We hain't either o' us been shot in the back yit,"
            spoke up Zack, "but I 'low I may be soon if this gits much
            hotter."
          At that moment, General Sigel came up with his Division and moved to the left where was
            a field with rising ground, and here the German troops formed with flags flying and with
            as much precision as if on parade. A splendid body of men they were--fit American
            citizens--and right gallant did they look in their "Osterhaus" hats,
            forming under heavy fire from all the rebel batteries as steadily and as perfectly as
            though guns and fear and death did not exist.
          "What a magnificent sight!" exclaimed Sammy, with intense admiration.
            "How would you like to be over there with those fellows, Zack?"
          "They're shore behavin' right well, Sammy, but I dunno but
            it takes ever bit as much nerve ter lie still here
            expectin' ever minute ter have your head blowed off."
          "I reckon you are right, Zack," Sammy replied, as a shell went
            screaming over his head and exploded a short distance behind.
          Through all the fearful havoc wrought by the rebel artillery, the Eighteenth kept its
            head and its ground; not until the order came to fall back did it budge an inch from its
            position, justified by the command, it was very glad indeed to move back two hundred
            yards or so to the comparative shelter of the heavier timber, the enemy maintaining a
            continuous and vicious shelling all the while. It was not for long, however that the men
            were permitted to bask in this somewhat meager but gratefully welcomed protection. The
            Eighteenth Indiana was too fit for that. The order came to move to the right. So the
            regiment moved eastward for a short distance, faced north, then moved to the east again
            and thus became the extreme right of the army. Moving rapidly to a learing, perhaps
            three or four hundred yards wide, it formed once more in line of battle. To press
            forward, straight across this field, were the orders, and the Eighteenth trotted into
            the open with the same airy confidence with which it had rushed forward yesterday to
            charge the battery, and with almost as much enthusiasm. The obstacle encountered then
            had been glori- oualy surmounted--or gone around. What met
            it now, flesh and blood could not endure--and live. The men had traversed nearly
            two-thirds of the distance across when the rebels suddenly opened up a masked battery
            and then was hell let loose. Grape and canister were hurled right into their faces with
            such unexpectedness and such awful continuity as nothing less than superman could have
            resisted. For the first and last time in its history, the Eighteenth fell back without
            orders.
          Sammy was swept along with the backward rush, as wildly eager for the woods as any. In
            the midst of the confused scramble for safety, it was suddenly borne in upon him that he
            must have been shot. His right foot pained him severely at every step so that he was
            compelled to limp and soon began to lag behind. In the strange delirium that
            super-excitement begets, he thought that presently he should have to lie down there on
            the exposed, powder-smoked field, and wait until the battle was over for some one to
            come for him and carry him away to the horrors of the field hospital--if he still lived.
            It would likely be night. All at once, his brain cleared and he realized what had
            happened. With an impatient exclamation, he sat right down in the path of the roaring
            battery and took off his shoe. Zack was at his side in a moment.
          
          "My God, Sammy!" he cried, huskily, his face showing white through
            the grime of the battle. "Air ye wounded? Where be ye hurted?"
          "No, you idiot! Can't a fellow take a stone out of his shoe without
            the whole army's stopping to gape at him? Hurry along there if you do
            n't want to get shot!" cried Sammy, wrathfully, though in justice it
            must be said that his choler was aroused at the presence of the stone rather than that
            of Zack.
          The stone was a large one, and jagged, and his foot was bruised and swollen from the
            vicious rasping and jabbing. When he rose to follow his retreating comrades, the shoe
            was in his hand. It was in this undignified manner that the idol of Company E limped
            back to the shelter of the timber. The men were all lying down and Sammy quickly sought
            the protection of a nearby stump. While they lay there at the edge of the woods,
            waiting, wondering what the next move would be, their hearts were figuratively driven
            into their throats by a tremendous uproar from behind. They turned to behold a world of
            troops, it seemed, moving down upon them, with blood-curdling yells and with a display
            of fresh, sweeping enthusiasm and purpose that was paralyzing to the little bunch of
            Hoosiers huddled down in the thin timber hugging the roots and the dead grass. Trapped
            was the first be- numbing thought. The next was one of
            intense relief, for the Union flag was floating over the advancing troops, its folds
            outspread and fluttering in the spring breeze. This feeling of relief in turn was
            quickly changed to one of chilling dismay; those noisy, gesticulating troops bearing
            down upon them thought that they were rebels! For the first time since hearing the guns
            boom out away over at Elk Horn Tavern early the day before, Sammy was scared, deathly
            so. He had been excited just now in the mad scamper back across the fields to get away
            from that belching masked battery but he had not been particularly afraid. Now, however,
            he was in a very panic of fear. He knew that their own flag could not be seen by the
            approaching men for it was with the right wing at the east end of the field and
            therefore not visible from their position. Inspired by the regiment's desperate
            straits, he ran toward the newcomers, already halting for the first volley, and, utterly
            forgetful of his lacerated foot, jumped upon a big log, waved his shoe frantically in
            the air and yelled:
          "Union! Union! Do n't shoot! Union! Union!"
          The officers were quick to grasp the situation and immediately ordered their men not to
            fire; but most of them had their muskets ready, and it was with extreme difficulty that
            the firing was prevented on such short notice. It was an
            anxious moment for the Eighteenth until the guns were lowered, and a serious tragedy
            averted. If a single volley had been fired, the effect would have been disastrous, as
            the new troops were within fifty yards of the Indiana men.
          These new troops proved to be the Thirty-seventh Illinois coming up as a reinforcement.
            The Eighteenth now moved out into the field again, under heavy fire, and re-formed with
            the Illinois regiment on its left. It was hard to form the line in the face of that
            terrible cannonading from the treacherous battery which had so unexpectedly raised its
            head and hissed forth its poison like a snake in the grass; but General Davis himself
            dashed up at full speed, a splendid figure of a man, and aided in steadying the battle
            front. He seemed to bear a charmed life; for he made a goodly target out in front of the
            nervous, straggling troops, paying no heed whatsoever to the shells hurtling around him,
            as sublimely oblivious to them as if they were not; and yet he came out from that
            maelstrom of shot and shell unscathed. When an exceptionally heavy volley of grape and
            canister came pouring into the ranks, and the Thirty-seventh began to waver, he
            shouted:
          "Men of the Eighteenth Indiana, give three cheers!"
          
          He was remembering the old regiment's glorious and history-making charge of
            yesterday. An electrical thrill swept the Eighteenth to a man. It was General Davis,
            their beloved commander, who had thus appealed to them. Soldiers will always cheer when
            called upon; but never before did such rousing cheers soar up toward the blue vault of
            Heaven as then issued from the throats of the loyal old Eighteenth, for their hearts
            were with their general and they wanted him to know that tey were. The trilling heer
            straightened the line like magic and General Davis immediately ordered a charge. When
            the troops struck the fence bordering the field on the far side, the rebel side, the
            enemy broke and ran. The Union troops pursued them for a half mile or so, straight up
            the hill, keeping up a deadly fire all the way. Two companies of the Thirty-seventh
            Illinois had Colt's revolving rifles and the steady firing was marvelously
            effective. The way was strewn with the dead and the dying beaten to the ground by that
            pitiless and steady rain of fire.
          Upon reaching the level at the summit of a hill, the pursuit was discontinued, and the
            troops halted at a road leading to Elk Horn Tavernfrom the east. In a few moments
            General Curtis came riding along with his hat off and smiling, and the men cheered
            lustily. It was soon learned that Sigel had turned the
            enemy's right as Davis's Division had turned their left, doubling them
            up like a jack-knife, and that the hosts of Van Dorn, the "conjuncted"
            armies of Price, McCullough, McIntosh, and Pike, as rudderless as drifting autumn
            leaves, had fled.
          So ended the first real battle in which the Eighteenth Indiana had taken part. The
            regiment had received its first baptism of fire in the true sense. The men were sobered.
            They now realized the grim realities of war. Prior to Pea Ridge, they had been eager,
            impatient to get into battle--henceforth, they went into battle as a duty, clearly
            understanding its awful tragedies. Boys became men. Discipline was appreciated, and the
            "pomp and circumstance of glorious war" had lost its glamor; but duty,
            patriotism, and high resolve took its place. It required the crucible of battle to
            refine the careless boy into the good soldier.
          The concentration of the troops in front of Elk Horn Tavern on the night of the seventh
            was a movement that marked General Curtis as a man of superior tactical ability. A
            mistake would have been fatal. When darkness stopped the fighting, the position was
            practically as follows: On the Confederate side, McCullough and McIntosh had been
            killed; Pike with his Indians had left the field. At Elk Horn Tavern, the rebel lines were in good condition and the fighting, in the main,
            ad been in their favor. Van Dorn decided to withdraw all the troops in front of Lee Town
            and concentrate at Elk Horn, and massed his batteries, about thirty-six guns, expecting
            to crush Curtis's right wing early in the morning, which would have
            unquestionably given him the victory. On the Union side, Davis's Division had
            been fully reorganized; Sigel had come up from the valley on the left, and the troops
            were ready for what might happen in the morning. On the right, Carr and Asboth had been
            roughly handled and part of their line driven back some little distance but it was in
            fairly good condition. Two and a half miles of rough timbered country intervened between
            the two wings. During the night, Davis and Sigel joined the right wing, so that when the
            rebels opened fire in the morning, they found the whole Union army in front of them. Had
            Curtis been mistaken as to the movements of the enemy and left Davis and Sigel at Lee
            Town, they would have had nothing in front of them while the combined rebel forces could
            soon have crushed Carr and Asboth, swung to the right and gobbled up the left wing in
            turn. On the other hand, had he brought Davis and Sigel over leaving Lee Town open, and
            the enemy had not concentrated, the rebel right wing could have marched through,
            attacked in the rear, and all would have been over. Thus
            it is that, aside from his loyal and patriotic service during the entire war, Pea Ridge
            alone should place the name of General Curtis high among those who displayed marked
            military ability and generalship of a lofty order.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XVI
          DELIRIUM
          THERE was well-earned jubilation in Curtis's camp in Sugar
            Creek valley. The army had been fed and refreshed from the captured stores of the widely
            scattered enemy; and there was some hope that the surrounding country, though sparsely
            settled and already cruelly plucked, might even yet be able to yield something to the
            Commissary Department, sufficient at least with the welcome addition of the two or three
            days' rations taken from the fleeing Van Dorn to stay the hungry soldiers until
            they should be bidden to a fairer, more generous land--back to the railroad, perhaps,
            now that the way was once more open; but anywhere out of the wilderness. Moreover,
            Curtis's men were justly jubilant because at last they had battled face to
            face, fairly, and had won.
          Marching orders came soon--north, sixteen miles, to Cross Timber Hollows, Missouri.
            Upon the Eighteenth devolved the duty of acting as rear guard during the army's
            progress north-ward The movement began just at dusk and when the rear guard swung into line, a drizzing rain was falling and the darkness was
            so heavy that one could not see the man marching in front of him. It was a slow and
            wearisome all-night march, with the cold, stinging rainfalling steadily, but the men
            pressed forward doggedly over the almost impassable roads, more than once dropping off
            to sleep while they walked, only to be awakened by coming into violent and surprising
            contact with the file in front of them; then off to sleep again, dreaming of fluffy
            feather beds at home, or, mayhap, of old Aunt Salina's Broken-dish patchwork
            quilt, rotting this many a day by some far-away roadside. As they crossed the state
            line, when the dawn was just lifting her wan, wet face to survey these waifs of the
            sodden night, the band struck up, "Ain't I glad I'm out of
            the Wilderness," and the walking automatons woke up, echoing the sentiment
            right heartily, and proceeded with a brisker step; for they were possessed with a
            peculiar feeling that, short as the time had really been since they had gone down into
            Arkansas, and far from their own land as they yet were, they had been a lone time gone
            and were coming home.
          The army remained in camp at Cross Timber Hollow until some time in April; then it went
            around the mountains by West Plains, Missouri, to
            Batesville, Arkansas. Of all the weary marches in which the Eighteenth had participated
            since the pursuit of Price first began, this one was the weariest. There were so many
            cold mountain streams to be waded, so many rough wooded hills to be climbed. It was a
            march to test the strength of the strongest. Only the hardiest, perhaps not even those,
            came out of such marches as physically fit as when they went into them, and the strain
            of them told more in after years than that of many wounds.
          It was on this march that Zachariah Posey, the sturdy backwoodsman, himself as immune
            from the ravages of fatigue as it is possible for healthy manhood to be, having much
            reserve stock to draw upon which he had carelessly amassed and packed away during all
            those years of his lazy, kindly, woodsy, open-air life, began observing Sammy with
            furtive, uneasy looks which grew more and more anxious and solicitous as the march grew
            in length and severity. There could be no doubt about it--Sammy was daily growing
            thinner and whiter, was more easily tired, displayed to the watchful eyes which loved
            him an alarming indifference to the external discipline of his company, and, yes, it
            must be confessed, developed a rapid, unprofitable growth of short temper wholly alien
            to his usual sunny disposition, which sorely puzzled and worried the ever faithful Zack. It was plain to see that Sammy was fast reaching the
            limits of his endurance. Zack was mortally afraid that he would drop by the wayside, and
            what a calamitous thing that would be, for the army had come to the wilderness again.
            There would be no place for Sammy to be cared for if left behind. He would have to keep
            up with the army someway. "I 'low I could pack him on my back a right
            smart o' the way," thought Zack, pondering the possibilities.
          But it was not until the army arrived in Batesville and went into camp not far away
            that Sammy dropped out. Towards the close of a day, with eyes unnaturally bright, he
            quietly toppled over, and was immediately sent to a house at the edge of the town,
            burning up with malarial fever, and to Zack's intense disgust and chagrin,
            Selvin was detailed to take care of the young officer. Zack was heartily glad that he
            had not been called upon to write to Selvin's mother, who was a woman of
            unquestioned "book l'arnin'," but he resented that
            detail almost as cordially. He wanted to take care of Sammy himself. But Selvin had his
            debt to pay, too, and he made a devoted nurse.
          It was fully ten days before Sammy was strong enough to return to camp. Even then his
            weakness was aggravatingly insistent and gave him continuous reminders that its claims
            were para- mount and that he would do well to stop wasting
            time fuming and fretting over his inability to walk quite steadily as yet, and to give
            his whole attention to building up his little strength and conserving it for some near
            future day when it would be required of him. He would not be able to bear it if the
            regiment marched away without him. He was not much used to looking after his own aches
            and pains--it had always been so promptly and efficiently done for him. But there was no
            thoughtful, watchful, tireless, tender mother to do for him now, no loving, admiring
            little sisters. He was face to face with one of the stern, terrifying realities of the
            homeless man--no woman to care for him when he is sick. However, Sammy was convalescent
            now, and he would never consent, never, to be left behind.
          One night, soon after he had returned to camp, he was awakened by the drums beating the
            long roll. Instantly he could hear officers along the line forming their companies.
            There was haste but little confusion. Sammy sat up, his brain thobbingly alert for the
            call of Company E. It is a weird and awful thing--the long roll at dead of night, when
            one must brush the mist of sleep from one's eyes in order to look death in the
            face. He is grimmer then, and startlingly strange, and one is very unready to meet him,
            one has so lately come from a far-away, forgetful place,
            the land of dreams, for the purpose of this dread, unexpected meeting. The Captain slept
            in the adjoining tent, and Sammy listened in intent, painful surprise for the movement
            which would give earnest that the Captain was on duty. All was very quiet in the company
            commander's sleeping quarters. Sammy's head was reeling from the
            suddenness with which he had sat up, combined with his weakened condition, and queer
            points of light were darting hither and thither before his eyes. Was Company E asleep?
            Was she about to be dishonored--what, Company E of the old Eighteenth? He could stand it
            no longer and sprang to his feet with unthinking haste. His bare feet had scarcely
            touched the ground when he was assailed by a strange blindness and dizziness which
            caused him to put his hand to his forehead for a moment to help him to think what he had
            started out to do. He felt a little confused, somehow. Oh, yes, the long roll was
            beating! It was the call for help and Company E was asleep! He drew on his trousers with
            trembling haste, but forgot his coat and shoes. The need of swift action was
            great--greater than that he should dally with time, thinking of mere matters of detail
            in dress. Rushing out, he formed the company with a nicety of dispatch and efficiency
            that gained for it the dis- function of being second upon
            the flag line. It was not until then that the Captain arrived, full dressed, with the
            sadly inadequate remark that he "had n't heard the
            alarm!"
          By that time, Sammy was reeling in his steps and clutching his comrades for support,
            while queer, crazy notions floated through his head. He abruptly turned the command
            overto the delinquent Captain and started back to his tent. He had not gone far when his
            wandering attention was called to the unusual performance of a drummer, a confused,
            over-excited little German who had evidently been too abruptly aroused from his slumbers
            and had not yet recovered his equipoise. He was beating his drum with automatic
            conscientiousness, but its beats were accompanied by a rapid, monotonous, seemingly
            endless repetition of the unsolicited information that "I fights mit Sigel,
            Gott tamn it, I fights mit Sigel, Gott tamn it!" His broken English bore ample
            testimony of his extraction and probable identification with the St. Louis troops, so
            that the running repetition of the insistent avowal was ludicrously unnecessary; but
            Sammy was too far gone toward the realm of the fever-mad, delirium, to even smile at
            this fantastic idiosyncrasy. How he finally contrived to reach his own quarters, he
            never knew; nor did he hear the spicy remarks of the returning soldiers who were chockful of racy resentment at being called out on what had
            proved to be a false alarm, and were not sparing in their epithets of blame toward the
            higher powers who had not realized it in time to prevent the flagrant waste of energy
            and sleeping hours. He had stumbled down upon his bed of army blankets and closed his
            eyes wearily upon the reeling world with its strange, darting points of light and its
            luminous blurs, and closed them as well upon the light of reason for many long,
            delirious weeks to come.
          "Typhoid," was the surgeon's brief pronouncement, after a
            hasty but honest diagnosis of symptoms. "Severe attack and the devil of a
            start! Above all things, keep him quiet and look after him well."
          Quiet! Grim irony! The army moved soon, beginning its long march to Helena, and what
            was to be done with the fever patient then? Only one thing seemed practicable. He was
            hoisted to the top of a baggage wagon drawn by a six-mule team, and was jolted along in
            this sorry ambulance, under the blazing sun, day after day. But there was the faithful
            Zack to minister to the fever-parched young offier, and Selvin, too, both of whom had
            olunteered their services; so his straits were not so sore as they might have been. The
            jolting over the rough roads was terrible, however, and the heat of the bright, staring
            sun, taken in conjunction with the heat of the burning
            fever, was intolerable.
          "Water! Water!" was the sick man's constant cry. He babbled
            besides an unintelligible jargon of words and phrases, but ever returned to the
            suffering plaint, "Water! Water!" They gave him of what they could
            get, but most of the water along the way was noisome and unfit for use. It was a low,
            damp, hot, malarial region through which they were passing. Zack was at his
            wits' end. He was as near frantic as he had ever been in his life. What would
            he not have given for one brimming cup of the clear cold water from the spring back
            home! Or if only that ornery but well-beloved little old Crooked Creek might open up
            before his feet and go singing along on its graveled way!
          There came a day which was insufferably hot. Sammy continued to moan for water, but the
            cry was becoming ever weaker and weaker until it came at last to seem that it must soon
            altogether die away. He was sore-spent with the unequal struggle. It could not last much
            longer. There is always a limit to human endurance. With a wild determination to get
            water somewhere--if he had to dig down into the bowels of the earth for it--Zack started
            away on a desperate quest, leaving Selvin in charge of the raving, sinking man. From an
            old negro who was ambling along a lane lined on each side
            by sagging rail fences, he obtained the unexpected but welcome information that there
            was a well of "bery fine wath, sah, fines' in de lan', two-
            t'ree-fo' mile yondah way." In such haste to prove the truth
            of the ancient darky's statement was Zack that he scarcely tarried long enough
            for more definite directions before he had snatched up an old coffee pot and bounded
            away. It was noon when he left the crawling wagons. It was sun-down when he once more
            rejoined them. The old negro's "two-t're-fo'
            mile" had not dwindled away in the telling. Zack had traversed them all and a
            wide margin besides, and every one of them had been as a Chinese puzzle, due in part to
            the errors of misdirection and in part to failure to understand the true, and the
            solution of which puzzle, if it is really ever solved at all, must be merely stumbled
            upon at last. But he had the water--the old coffee pot and his canteen were running over
            with it--and Sammy drank while Zack blubbered with relief that the pitiful, incessant
            cry, answered, was stilled at last, if even for a very little while.
          And then one day, Sammy awoke. His far-away gaze upon things unseen struggled earthward
            again, and rested vaguely, unquestioningly, upon the world around him. His vision was
            singularly clear, though he was conscious of that odd
            removed feeling of one who has come back after long years but who is going away again
            very soon. He was lying flat upon the ground in a cornfield. The sun was beating down
            upon his head. It brought back--or rater continued--prolonged--the vague, confused,
            sickening turmoil of the wid, uncharted notions of his delirium, when his ravings had
            been mocked by the pitiless sun and spat upon by its fiery rain of glaring shine. He
            heard voices but he was strangely indifferent as to any word they spoke--any message
            they bore. Perhaps, if he had come to stay, he might have been more humanly curious; but
            seeming to realize right well that he would be going back again in a little while, he
            was placidly uninterested as to specific thing these voices might be saying, and their
            meaning continued to drift beyond him while he gazed idly up into the shining sky. That
            is, for a time--an indefnite time--ages, perhaps--until one voice--a well-known voice, a
            well-loved voice--seeming to come through an infinity of space--but familiar as the
            sound of a mother's lullaby after long years of silence--penetrated his sinking
            consciousness.
          "Is he dead?"
          Now of whom could Colonel Washburn be speaking? Had there been a battle? There were no
            sounds of one in the air; he heard no aftermath of
            groaning or sobbing. It was very quiet all around him. There was just the faintest
            rustling of the young green corn blades as the warm breeze gently stirred them; but that
            was all. And yet somewhere near some onewas dying; for some one was saying--the Captain,
            of course, at least it was the same voice which had said a little while ago, years ago,
            rather, for all at once it seemed ages ago when at first it had seemed but a
            moment--"I did n't hear the alarm"--this voice was
            saying:
          "He was n't a few minutes ago, but he soon will be. We laid him down
            there when we stopped for dinner. It's easier for him there, poor
            fellow."
          If it was strange to think of a man's dying right here, right now, it was
            stranger still to hear his Colonel swear. Sammy had never heard Colonel Washburn swear
            before. The provocation must be great.
          "Dying then? And how could he be anything else after having been hauled over
            these cursed roads all these days in a baggage wagon, jolted anedjammed into a jelly at
            every lurch, and his brains broiling alive meanwhile in the blazing sun! It's
            shameful! It's outrageous! That the man who saved the day for us at Pea Ridge
            should receive such treatment as this. They say that was a brilliant charge of mine
            which recap- tured the battery and turned the tide of
            battle in our favor. I tell you, Captain, it would have been a miserable and a
            disgraceful flunk if that young Lieutenant there had not so gallantly rallied the broken
            line when the Twenty-second bolted! Do n't stand there like a blithering idiot!
            have a stretcher brought from my headquarters at once! There's a house over
            there--it's Union--see that he is taken there without an instant's
            delay. Detail some trusty fellow to nurse him--one of his friends. A boy like that has
            aplenty, I'll wager! We'll pull him through yet if we can. The Union
            has need of him."
          Brave words spoken of some one. Now who could that some one be? It must be fine thing
            to deserve well of one's Colonel, especially one like the Colonel of the old
            Eighteenth. Perhaps, if he were going to stay, even he might some day win words of
            commendation like those. They would make everything worth while--a million times worth
            while. But he was going way right soon now--he could n't stay if he wanted
            to--and he was very tired--too tired to linger even long enough to see who the lucky
            fellow was of whom the Colonel was speaking--and how far away the Colonel was
            getting--his voice seemed to come from an immense distance--it was growing fainter and
            fainter--all other sound was stopped up and only a singing silence remained. He was on the point of going off--off--into space. His
            fingers were oddly itching. Queer lights danced before his eyes. The Colonel's
            voice drifted away into nothingness. He was gone.
          Not quite--or was he coming back again? He lay listening idly for the rustle of the
            corn blades in the wind, and wondered if Colonel Washburn had gone quite way. He was
            calmly happy and content. The sun was going down. It had glared so all the time, but now
            it was faintly mellow, cheerfully subdued, graciously restful to tired eyes andhead. The
            breeze must have died away, too, with the coming of evening, for the corn was still. He
            would lie there all night in the heavenly coolness and quiet; and the hell of noise and
            confusion and jolting and wild thoughts would be no more. He buried his hands in the
            soft, worked soil--just to feel the good clean dirt between his fingers. Why, a
            cornfield was just like home. How many years had he and Herbert ploughed and planted and
            cultivated in just such felds as this! What was this he had hold of? Not a sheet surely?
            A sheet in a cornfeld? Oh, no! The boys had made him a bed there of course. But there
            were no sheets in the army. And this was one over him, too. Was he still dreaming? He
            felt altogether too drowsily comfortable and at peace for that. Dreams were hideous
            nigh- mares, and this, why, this was the very antipodes of
            nightmare. Was it possible that he had been bathed--first in warm, soapy water, and then
            in deliciously clear and cool? He had no recollection of it, but he felt as if he had.
            It was a familiar feeling. He had felt exactly that way often after he had come in dirty
            and over-heated from the thrashing, perhaps, and his mother had helped him with just
            such a resty, luxurious bath, and he had then snuggled down to calm, untroubled sleep.
            He was very sleepy now. He should drift off presently. He felt that he would be glad to
            go this time. He was just tired enough and rested enough from his bath and drowsy enough
            from its languorous influence to welcome the sinking into sweet and dreamless
            forgetfulness; but first he must figure out--sheets and a clean gown in a cornfield with
            the sun setting--oh, no, it was the lamp setting--but lamps do n't set--and yet
            here was a lamp burning dimly on the table. Now where did it come from? It was good of
            old Zack to stay by him and rub his head. It had throbbed so all along; but it was
            easier now. Cornfields were the very devil of places for ghosts. Suppose Zack should see
            a "hant?" Would he stay or would he run? "Stay,
            Zack," he whispered. "Do n't leave me, old chap.
            I--I'm pretty weak--and you know there are no ghosts. I've told you so
            a thousand times."
          
          "What is it? Did you speak? Is there something you want?"
          A woman's voice--by cracky! He might have known Zack's horny hand
            could never have given that soft, light, soothing touch in all its born days of
            chopping, climbing, hunting and fishing. A woman's voice! He was in house. He
            had on clean linen. He lay between clean, sweet-smelling sheets. He believed he had been
            bathed. He was very grateful for all these things but languidly unconcerned as to how
            they had come about. He accepted the situation unquestioningly. However he should like
            to know who the woman was. She was a right royal one--he knew that. He should like to
            know her name.
          "Who are you?" he asked.
          This time she understood.
          "I am Ben Rebeir's wife--Ben Rebeir, the scout, you know,"
            she replied softly. "Had n't you better go to sleep now?" and
            Sammy, docilely acquiescent, went to sleep.
          For the third time, Sammy opened his eyes to the light of consciousness, and for the
            second time to the touch of a gentle, womanly hand upon his forehead. Whoever Ben
            Rebeir, the scout, might be, his wife was a queen among women. There was no denying
            that. He felt more comfortable than he had for a long, weary while, and he lay quietly
            in the clean white bed, too weak to question, too content
            to wonder--just drinking in the bright morning sunshine which came pouring in through
            the open window, and reveling in the light cool breeze playing upon his face. Birds were
            chirping, twittering, calling to each other from the summer-laden boughs of the trees
            outside his window. From somewhere near, horse whinnied, and then a dog barked; and
            mingled with these other pleasant, homey sounds, he could hear a hen clucking to her
            brood of downy chicks, and heard their soft, wondering, young peep, peep, peep, as they
            followed her trustingly around this strange, big, beautiful world into which they had
            been born. In another part of the house, a woman was singing softly to the not
            inharmonious accompaniment of the clink and splash of dishes being washed. It was all
            very homey, very sweet and restful. Could it be possible that he was back home on the
            little Indiana farm? He began to think so. No hand but mother's could stroke a
            tired forehead so tenderly, so comfortingly, so altogether satisfyingly, as that. He had
            been ill and the had sent him home to get well. God was good--and so was Colonel
            Washburn.
          "Is that you, mother?" he asked, simply, the memory of Ben
            Rebeir's wife thousands of miles away just then.
          The hand was quickly withdrawn, but the verbal response
            was not so quick: In fact, "mother" was a long time in answering. Then
            a low voice, an infinitely sweet and gentle and womanly voice said, softly:
          "No, this is not your mother. This is your nurse. You have been very ill but
            you are much better now."
          Sammy was silent for a little while, taking this in. He had been so long gone that he
            could not re-adjust himself to worldly affairs without much mental labor.
          "You are still Ben Rebeir's, the scout's, wife
            then?" he asked at last, without turning his head from its comfortable angle on
            the pillow. "Pardon me if I seem--unduly inquisitive. Things change so--it is
            hard to keep a grasp on them--in their dizzy flights. You have been very good to me. If
            you are not my mother, I am glad you are Ben Rebeir's wife," he added,
            with just a touch of his old whimsicality.
          "I am sorry to disappoint you so often," the delicious voice
            contradicted, smilingly, "but I am not Ben Rebeir's
            wife."
          This was poser. It bowled Sammy, with his pride of newly-gained consciousness,
            completely over. Evidently, he was going away again--or was already gone. For here was
            another mystery, and a mystery had directly preceded every one of his previous
            goings-away. Here was nei ther cornfield nor
            scout's wife nor the dream of home nor the horror of delirium--but that last
            would surely come again if he were indeed'going off. Oh, if he could only hold
            himself from going! Why, he was being granted a little grace! He was staying longer than
            ever before! He was still here! Could it be that he was here to stay this time? It was
            too good to be true!
          There was no doubt that Sammy had progressed in his unconscious struggle for life, for
            in place of the old indifference as to whom certain voices belonged which had sometimes
            inexplicably stood forth alone out of the myriads of voices and hellish confusion of his
            delirium, he all at once developed an over-weening curiosity as to the ownership of the
            voice which did not belong to Ben Rebeir's wife. To his grateful surprise he
            found he could turn his head if he gave his undivided attention to the transaction--so
            he turned it, and rested his tired, sunken blue eyes, shadow-circled, full upon the
            roguishly smiling, finger-pressed-to-lips face of Sara Brown. This surprise was so much
            greater than any which had preceded it, and so different, that it must not be allowed to
            slip away into the mists of vague unrealism whither those others had gone before; and
            yet he was too weak to give vent to it, to exclaim over it, or to wonder at it. He could
            only look up at her happily, contentedly, without question. Presently, he whispered with the shadow of a smile:
          "Was n't there a cellar to hide in this time?"
          She shook her head smilingly.
          "At least, I do n't know whether there is or not," she said.
            "I have n't had time to investigate the possibilities in that
            direction. You have kept us all pretty busy with your--tantrums."
          "Us all?"
          "To be sure--Zack, and Mr. Selvin, and Mrs. Rinehart, and John, and me. It
            took us all. You have been an obstreperous patient."
          "Mrs. Rinehart?"
          "Your hostess."
          "Then who was--Ben Rebeir's wife?"
          "She nursed you before you were brought to Helena. You were there week. When
            you are well, which won't be very soon if you persist in keeping up this
            gossip, you must never forget that you owe your life to--the scout's
            wife."
          "I shall not forget." He closed his eyes wearily. The strain of even
            this short conversation had nearly exhausted him. He opened them soon, however. There
            was something he must say. "Nor you," he whispered "Neither
            shall I forget you. It seems that I have had two guardian angels when I--needed them
            sorely. What have I ever done to deserve it? Some day, when I'm stronger I will
            say, 'Thank you!'"
          
          "I only helped the boys. You must thank them. Mrs. Rinehart was too busy a
            woman to devote all her time to you. Some one else was needed. It was Zack who told me
            about you. I met him on the street one day. Those boys have been wonderful nurses. Your
            old Captain told me how faithfully they had stood by you night and day all the way from
            Batesville."
          "They are the best friends a man ever had," said Sammy, simply.
          "And now you must not talk any more," said Sara, with quiet firmness.
            She moved softly about the bed, arranged the pillows deftly, and smoothed the crumpled,
            patch-work counterpane. From a small table near-by, neatly covered with a spotless
            damask napkin gladly brought forth at the instigation of that sweet new nurse from the
            drawer where the " company things " were so zealously and so
            religiously hoarded, she took a bowl and a silver spoon and sat down at the bedside. She
            was unchanged except that the womanly little face was older and sadder looking than the
            few short months warranted. Perhaps she had seen much of war since last they had
            met--much of its suffering and woe. It hurt him to think of it. Always she was in the
            enemy's country. If only he might persuade her to go North. He would try--when
            he was strong enough to rejoin his regiment. Meanwhile, there were a million and one things he must know about her before he dared to
            sleep. The continued presence of his normal mind was telling upon his bump of
            curiosity.
          "Are you a regular army nurse now?" he asked, with elaborate
            carelessness, and with a deep intent to frustrate her evident intention of tolling him
            off to sleep.
          "For this case, anyway," she assured him, lightly. "The boys
            have put me in charge. They were all fagged out, poor fellows--but that was far from
            being the chief reason for my installment as head nurse. They thought that I might be
            able to 'boss' you better and--I think I am. So you are to take your
            nourishment at once and then go to sleep. You talked enough when you were out of your
            head to last you a long, long time. Now go to sleep."
          He took the thin gruel docilely at first because her hand gave it--then eagerly and his
            eyes pleaded for more.
          "Enough for this time," she announced, calmly, but with a firmness
            not to be gainsayed. She stepped quietly to the open window through which was wafted the
            fragrance of June roses and honeysuckle and lowered the blind. "Let's
            play it's night now and go to sleep," she added, with gentle
            insistence.
          There was much of the capable, well-trained nurse in her
            quiet, watchful efficient, plainly gowned presence; but there was a touch of the
            maternal, also, in the compassionate sympathy, the hovering tenderness, and Sammy found
            himself drifting deliciously along on the calm strength of that God-given combination
            until--he was about to sink into the depths of the restful, peaceful slumber which was
            the earnest of his turn for the better--at last, when he roused himself to ask
            drowsily:
          "You did n't tell me after all."
          "Will you promise me to go to sleep if I tell you that one
            thing?"
          "Yes."
          "Well, then, I have helped some--I hope to do more. I am a volunteer--like
            you, not a regular."
          "Are we in Helena?"
          "We are. I told you that before."
          "When did you come here?"
          "I shall not tell you," she reproved him, gravely. "You have
            broken your promise, bad little boy."
          "My head feels awfully funny. Rub it, won't you, as you were doing
            when I woke up?"
          He was not so far gone but that he hoped for a little rush of tell-tale color in her
            face or hint of shyness in the calm, sincere eyes, and was deeply chagrined when he saw
            them not.
          
          "Sleep is far better than hands for aching heads," she vouchsafed,
            judicially.
          "Where did you find your father?" he asked.
          No answer.
          "Is he here without?"
          No answer.
          "Did you get my last letter telling about that young Selvin lad? He found
            himself at Pea Ridge, I think. He will make a good soldier."
          Continued silence.
          "Did you have any more trouble with Guerrillas?"
          She arose and tiptoed softly to the door.
          "Zack will be just outside--should you need anything," she said.
          "Oh, please come back," he pleaded, plaintively, in a very panic of
            remorse. "I'll be good. I never could go to sleep if you left me now
            for I'd fear you'd never come back. Please! I'm most gone
            now," he wheedled.
          He smiled contentedly when she once more returned to his bedside as if she were
            humoring a fractious child.
          "I'm going--I'm gone--good-night, good little
            girl."
          But just before he really was off, he felt again that soft cool touch upon his forehead
            and sank smilingly to sleep.
          Another time, at twilight, when a summer rain 
              June days
            was falling, straight and warm and gentle before
            the open window, he awoke from a long sleep and asked her whom Colonel Washbum had
            meant--back there in the cornfield. He had been dreaming.
          Oddly enough, she evinced no surprise. Perhaps Zack had told her--perhaps Colonel
            Washburn himself. She leaned over him with a baffling expression in her eyes.
          "Why, he meant you, Captain," she said, and glided
            from the room.
          Those June days following were the newly commissioned young Captain's beads of
            devotion--but they could not last. He could not hold them and count them over and over.
            In week, he was so much stronger that a change was the next move in the natural order of
            military events. It was through Zack who had accidentally met her upon the street one
            day that Sara Brown had come to nurse him. With Zack's connivance, she sent
            word to Herbert Goodman who appeared upon the scene, bronzed and grave from his arduous,
            devoted service at the front, but the comfortable, capable, trusted, idolized big
            brother still,and who bore the pale shadow of Sammy off to Jefferson Barracks where he
            proceeded to nurse and diet him back to health again.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XVII
          HOME ON LEAV OF ABSENCE
          THE old Eighteenth, now a worthy regiment indeed since the
            "making fit" campaign against Sterling Price and the trial by fire at
            Pea Ridge, was back in Missouri, and the heart of Sammy yearned toward it mightily.
            Jefferson Barracks was a prison, the "flowery ease" palled. Surgeon
            Herbert was an inexorable tyrant--though between times, when the grave, worn surgeon was
            forgotten in the big brother, lying at length upon the soft green turf under spreading
            trees outside Ward D where Sammy was convalescing, with gaze idly wandering over the old
            wooden barracks occupying three sides of the square, also utilied for hospital purposes,
            or staring dreamily upwards into the far away, shimmering blue sky flecked with
            diaphanous white clouds, or watching Hospital Corps assistants in their tidy uniforms
            softly flitting hither and thither on their errands of service, the two brothers grew
            very close together indeed, closer than they had ever been before, even when they had
            loved each other most. Eleven domineered over seven;
            seventeen merely tolerated thirteen; but the twenties recognized no digits between,
            neither ascending nor descending--perhaps because the shadow of the coming parting,
            which in war time may always be but the projection of the shadow of the longer parting,
            blotted them all out--and twenty-four and twenty were comrades in the truest sense of
            the word.
          Finaly, neither the surgeon, big brother, nor comrade could hold Sammy longer. He was
            discharged from the hospital and immediately rejoined his company. The regiment spent
            the entire fall and winter campaigning in Missouri. There was little real fighting, but
            many bitter marches in inclement weather, and the results of the long arduous campaign
            were very meager. Most of the time was spent in following bands of Guerrillas who would
            never stand and fight, but, when approached, would scatter and fade away into the
            mountains. But at the close of it, the Eighteenth was hardened to the fine durability of
            steel. It was, pitifully enough, the survival of the fittest; but those fit were very
            fit, indeed, hard-muscled, lean, keen-eyed, strong of nerve and will. And how soon they
            had need of it all!
          About the first of April Sammy secured a leave of absence, his first, and a few days
            later, came into his home town of Huntingburg on the stage. Many and many a time around the camp fire, on the march, he had dreamed of
            coming home like this, and wondered if it was ever to be. And now he was come, and on a
            day of his dreams, a day in the spring of the year, when the air was warm and balmy, and
            pink and sweet with the color and scent of peach blossoms; when all the birds were
            singing joyously of reunion and nesting and long summer days. The woods were full of
            birds. They flashed through the flecks of sunshine on the shaded old stage road. They
            balanced themselves nicely on slender wings which quivered beneath their airy burden,
            cocking feathery heads at the lumbering stage wagon, and peering cunningly through the
            veil of new green leaves, or scolding deliciously at the unwonted intrusion--all
            unafraid, but poised for instant flight if it should prove an unexpected danger. Yes, he
            was coming home at last, home to be coddled and waited upon and admired; home to sleep
            in a soft, billowy, feather bed--oh the hard, ungiving ground of a bivouac--home to
            awaken in the fragrant, dewy morning to the pleasant sound of frying chicken or
            sputtering ham, to catch and to hold the delicious aroma of real coffee, and to turn
            over restfully with the comfortable realization that there was no hurry, mother would
            keep it hot. Oh, the hard-tack and the beans and the parched corn and the
            "dish- water" that had honor thrust upon
            it when it was undeservedly called coffee! And oh, the hurry in the gloom and damp of
            the early dawn, and the weariness and the dreariness of it--and the heart-clutching roll
            of the drums! A day of his dreams! A day in tune with his joyous thoughts! To his
            surprise, he had no sooner leaped from the stage, his feet seemingly as light as his
            heart, than he was literally surrounded by old friends and acquaintances clamoring for
            recognition, for a word, a hand-shake. He had sent no word of his coming. He was still
            young enough to enjoy perpetrating a surprise on the folks at home. So long had he been
            as a grain of sand on the seashore, as a leaf in the forest, as a blade of grass on the
            prairie--one of many--that he had forgotten how clothed in importance was a returning
            son to a small community, and how far a brave new uniform can be seen on the highroad,
            when the hearts of people see uniforms in their dreams at night, sometimes bonny and
            blue--sometimes bonny and gray--oh, many, many times, dimmed and torn and darkly
            red.
          "Howdy, Sammy!" "Howdy, there, Sammy Goodman!"
            "Lord, Lord, ef it ain't Sammy Goodman in the flesh, I do n't
            know what I'm a-talkin' about!" "Sammy
            Goodman--an' I've knowed him sence he was knee-high-ter-a grasshopper!
            An' he's home--an' he ain't got kilt yit--well, well, I swan ter goodness!"
            "We're powerful glad ter see you safe home, Sammy. Yer mam'll
            be purt-nigh flabbergasted with surprise. She 'lowed jist yistiddy when she was
            ter town that they'd wait till you was dead before they'd let you come
            home." These and similar greetings kept Sammy busy smiling and shaking hands
            first with this one and then with that, but, glad as he was to see them all, his heart
            hungered to be on the old woods trail, flying home to the "hewed log"
            cabin on Crooked Creek.
          "How'll they git along without you, Sammy?" one friendly wag
            demanded in pretended concern. "The Union would n't dast ter fight
            without you! Did the Johnny Rebs grant a truce jist ter 'low you ter take a run
            down home for a few days? Golly Moses! How us all do shine with reflected
            glory!"
          "No use fighting till I get back, Mart!" retorted Sammy, with like
            and ready good nature. "It would only be a wicked waste of good powder and
            shot. The Johnnies are n't as dumb as you think they are. They 'll
            wait for me, never fear!"
          "What's the news? Give us the news, Sammy!" implored the
            older and graver heads. "Where's Grant now? Is he ever going to take
            Vicksburg? How many men's he got? Ain't he awful slow about if? Where's the Eighteenth now? Why did n't Zack
            Posey come back with you for a furlough? Do you 'low Grant's a good
            general?"
          But he broke away at last and was off on the home stretch--a mile and a half, now
            through sunny cleared fields already green with tiny shoots of growing things, the old
            familiar road bordered here and there with rail fences over which tangled blackberry
            vines, already bursting into leaf and flower, clambered riotously, now through strips of
            timber, softly shadowed, it, too, vibrant with the multitudinous murmuring of the
            beginnings of life, of bird and beast and crawling thing. This time, Sammy watched a
            tiny snake wriggle out of his path to the safety of the tangle of wayside undergrowth
            without lifting his hand against it, and smiled, remember ing another day when he had
            killed a snake, just because it was a snake, when he was unaccountably loath to do it.
            He understood himself better now. Ah, life, life, life! Have not all an inherent right
            to it? If some one must answer for war, must some one also, sometime, have to answer for
            killing even snakes? God gave them life. And God said, "Thou shalt not
            kill!" But how then, if they be poison--one can keep out of the
              way! It is a large world. There is much room in it. But, a righteous war--ah, well, God pity those who make a righteous war necessary, not
            them who must fall in it!
          In boyish glee, Sammy left the road which ran directly past the house, when he was
            about a quarter of a mile from home, and struck through a last bit of timber. This would
            insure his not being seen until he wished it--until he was upon them--when he would walk
            into their presence, the presence of mother and sisters, unannounced--from nowhere--and
            watch the look of startled surprise leap into instant and joyous and loving
            recognition.
          When almost within hailing distance and the trees were thinning, though still veiling
            the house, he heard voices, and, stepping softly, he slipped from tree to tree until he
            was close enough to observe the speakers and to distinguish their words, himself safely
            concealed behind the trunk of a giant beech, with a further screening of thin thicket of
            ash. He had not been mistaken in the sweet, treble, earnest voice of the child. It
            belonged to his little sister, Ama Jane. She stood looking valiantly, even defiantly, up
            into the face of a big, loosely knit, slouching-formed fellow--Bob Halstead! He was
            nowhere in the army then. Sometime ago, Mollie had written--in the vein of scorn which
            all young women and nearly young women of that day, especially they of
            the border states where the war spirit was an all
            pervasive spirit, to the absolute subordination, nay, to the well-nigh extinction of
            aught else, employed in thinking or speaking of those young men who, for one reason or
            another, had not enlisted, were not at the front--that Bob Halstead was still hanging
            around holding to his mother's apron strings, she reckoned. "Too bad
            he is n't old enough to go to the war," she had added, with the
            righteous irony of those whose nearest and dearest had gone. "Seems a pity when
            he's so big--and the Union needs big men, does n't it, Sammy? And if,
            as people are saying, he should fight on the other side, maybe he'd be killed
            in battle. Anyway, he would n't be doing the harm that he is here, even if he
            was n't killed. I think that a sneak is lots worse than a brave man if he is on
            the wrong side, don't you, Sammy?" And he had wondered what Bob
            Halstead was up to, now.
          Ama Jane's dark, tangled locks shaded a peculiarly earnest, forceful,
            positive, but, withal, piquant little face, with eyes of deepest Sammy-blue; and the
            look of self-confidence, of unshakable assurance, and of rapt hero-worship with which
            she faced her antagonist in what was evidently a hotly pitched word-duel, was
            startlingly amusing to Sammy, even while his heart swelled with tenderness for her
            stanch companionship.
          
          "Where is Sammy now?" he heard Bob ask.
          "He's in Company E, Eighteenth Indiana Regiment, fighting for the
            Government, trying to make a settlement, why are n't you there?"
            replied Ama Jane, promptly, fearlessly, proudly, her voice limpid yet with the baby
            lisp.
          "Great Caesar's ghost!" thought Sammy, in a panic lest he
            should laugh and spoil it all, while all the strings of him thrummed with the sweetness
            of her touch upon the harp of his big brother being. "Is that my little sister,
            Ama Jane Goodman? Now, I'd like to know who put her up to all that? She always
            was an original little rip and I'll wager she just gathered that stuff together
            her own little elfin self from listening to her elders."
          "Oh and you think I'd ought to be, do you, little smarty?"
            demanded Bob, sourly. ("If you can't appreciate that, Bob,"
            said Sammy to himself, "you are worse than I thought you were!")
            "Well, if I was in the war, I'd be on the other side. How'd
            you like that?"
          "That's what mam said, but she said you were such a big coward you
            were afraid to fight on either side."
          "Have a care, little sister," breathed Sammy. "Do
            n't badger or trust him too far. He might have a bat somewhere around handy. I
            am mighty glad I am here!"
          
          "Your mam's too smart. The boys are all a-gettin' down on
            her for doin' so much talkin'. She'd better keep her old
            mouth shut or she'll wish she had."
          Sammy stepped from behind the concealing tree and came forward. Not so very long ago,
            he would have been in a towering rage and would have demanded instant satisfaction for
            those words. Even now, had there been outsiders who might have misunderstood them or
            their source, he might have fought then and there for the honor of
            "mam" as he had done for the honor of "pap" years
            ago, but there was no one present but loyal Ama Jane and himself, no one unless one
            counted the birds and the other folk of the forest. There was no need to resent the
            attitude of a snake in the grass who had hissed when a good woman went by--and Bob was
            like to a snake--let him wriggle away to safety and live his little life in peace--with
            the rest of the hissing kind.
          "You are a mighty brave young man, Bob, when it comes to fighting women and
            children--" he began, but got no farther, for, with a wild scream of rapture,
            Ama Jane threw herself into the arms of her idolized brother.
          "Oh, Sammy, where did you come from? Oh, I am so glad, so glad! Sammy, Sammy,
            Sammy, my Sammy! Is the war over? Did we beat? Are you
            home to stay? Oh, my Sammy my Sammy, my Sammy!" she cried over and over again
            in ecstasy.
          Sammy himself was much moved The baby sister was very, very dear to him. She had been
            such a tiny, helpless thing when the father had been forced to leave her; and in his
            boyish way, meeting the responsibility which had come to him after the tragedy of all
            their lives, he had tried to father the little elfin creature, the pathos of whose life
            was that she could never know the worth of what she had lost. Over her dark head and
            clinging arms, he looked up to complete his greeting to Bob Halstead.
          "I seem to have heard that you are not alone that there are others around
            here--like you--who are too cowardly to fight for principle but who very bravely stay at
            home and nag and pester the families of men who are absent fghting for their
            country."
          "Oh, you need n't think because you've been away
            fightin' for niggers that you kin come home and swell around and talk big. Jist
            because one or two struttin' uniforms pertend to love 'em does
            n't make this a nigger-lovin' country. And you had best be purty civil
            to the boys if you ain't hankerin' to turn up missin' some of
            these here nights," boasted Bob, pridefully, bolstered up by the secret but
            strengthening knowledge that in real but unguessed truth
            he was not standing alone.
          "Oh, as to that, I should n't be at all surprised if a gang of you
            crept up behind me some pitch dark night and stabbed me in the back. Go ahead,"
            continued Sammy, in his larger tolerance attaching a too little importance, perhaps, to
            the braggadocio threats of--one of the shirkers. "I'll take my chances
            with a bunch like you. Come along, Ama, where are mother and Mollie?"
          It was a happy time for the Goodmans. If Mollie and Ama Jane had been proud of Sammy in
            his "store clothes," how much more were they vain of his appearance in
            the new uniform that fitted his straight, soldierly figure so trimly. Though he was lean
            from the long, severe campaigning in Missouri, his shoulders were broadened and he had
            in every way growninto the full stature of a man. It soon became noised about in every
            nook and corner of the neighborhood that he had come home and friends came trooping in
            to bid him welcome and to inquire the latest news from the front; and Sammy, ever
            peculiarly sensitive to the good-will of his friends, basked in the genial warmth of the
            universal wonder and adulation. If, at times, he was a trifle condescending to some of
            the humble, unlettered folk who came to do him honor, he was none the less their friend--and grateful--and it will be remembered in excuse for
            Sammy that he was not very old yet, and that the bitterest part of the war was yet to
            come. He could never be rightly accused of condescension after the Vicksburg campaign,
            which was very soon to call out the best that there was in those mighty men,
            Grant's soldiers, who cleared the great highway of the Mississippi for the
            better treading of that better righteousness--"Justice to all."
          Among the first to come were the Poseys, man and wife and wild little brood of
            tow-heads.
          "An' how air Zack?" asked Mrs. Posey, as soon as etiquette
            permitted the question, which was not until all the polite conventions of the backwoods
            had been complied with, as, for instance, "Land, how you have growed!"
            "You're a-lookin' right peart." "My, that
            air new uniform is purty--it sets you off powerful well."
            "An' those things over your shoulder, they're a
            captain's, be they? An' you got promoted after Pea Ridge?"
            "I 'low that air were a happy day fer your mam."
            "When did you git here?" "When did you start?"
            "Can't you come over ter sepper an' set awhile?"
            "Leave General Grant well?" "How long you goin' ter
            stay?"
          But Sammy understood how she longed to hear about Zack and he rattled off answers to
            the polite inquiries as fast as he could and with the
            fewest words. He himself was much relieved when her "society manner"
            finally permitted the putting of the question which was so near her heart.
          "Oh, Zack's getting along fine," he said, with enthusiasm.
            "He's the best and bravest man in my company all right--and
            that's saying a good deal. He's tough as a--rhinoceros and never gets
            sick and so far has never been wounded, more than a mere scratch now and then. He sent
            his love and a 'howdy,' and I'm glad to be able to tell you
            that he will be home in about a week now on a well-earned furlough. Had no trouble at
            all in getting it. He's got a mighty good reputation as a soldier, Zack has.
            He's in the way of being a regimental hero, too, since he rode up all alone to
            that Peoria battery at Pea Ridge and with such cool effrontery demanded the Johnnie Rebs
            to cease firing!"
          "Zack always were brave," sniffed Mrs. Posey, from a full heart.
            "I 'lowed he'd be jist fool enough ter go an' do it
            all alone. Do you 'low he'll be kilt afore he gits that air furrow,
            Sammy?"
          "Not a bit of it," declared Samnmy, stoutly. "Do
            n't get that into your head. Why, Zack bears a charmed life."
          And then Aunt Salina Haskins blew in, little and gray and wiry as ever, her lined face
            radiant with the joy of the news-gatherer and
            news-disperser on the trail of a good story. Sammy Goodman home from the war! Verily,
            she would have come sooner had she known sooner of his arrival.
          "My Broken Dish come in purty handy?" she inquired, casually, after
            all the preliminaries which had so irked the craving mother soul of Mrs. Posey had been
            disposed of.
          "Why, yes, yes, indeed, Aunt Salina," replied Sammy, cordially, but
            in a panic of fear for what further questioning might bring to light.
          "Wear well?"
          "I should say so! But--things have to go through a deal of rough usage in the
            army, you know. They do n't last so long as they do at home:"
          "I 'low it's about seen its best days then. Well,
            it's wored out in a good cause--if my grandson does n't think
            so," said Aunt Salina, complacently. "It's still
            a-holdin' tergether yit though, I 'low? The pieces was mostly new
            muslin and caliker."
          "Well, to tell the truth," said Sammy, desperately, hoping to fend
            off being completely cornered, "it is practically worn out. I'm afraid
            we'll have to give it up."
          "You kin cut the good parts into strips an' use 'em for
            sca'fs gin winter comes," proffered 
            Aunt Salina, thriftily. "You do that, Sammy. I 'low there'll
            be a plenty for you an' Zack an' mebbe a strip ter spare for some pore
            feller who ain't got no folks at hum ter do for him. Will you remember,
            Sammy?"
          "I'll do my best. It's a good suggestion," said
            Sammy, his mouth twitching at the unconscious humor of her persistence in the light of
            the real and irrevocable fate of the Broken Dish. "I had n't thought
            of that before. Thank you a thousand times, Aunt Salina--and how's
            Susie?" Thus he trod upon solid ground again.
          As the Poseys were leaving, Zachariah the elder motioned for Sammy to come out of
            doors.
          "I 'low you've heerd tell 'bout the things that
            have been goin' on round these here parts lately?" he drawled, when
            they were alone.
          "Not very much," replied Sammy. "I have done so much talking
            myself since I came home that I am afraid I have n't given anybody much of an
            opportunity to tell me anything. What's up now? Is the ghost still haunting
            Hank's house?"
          "Well, fer purt' nigh a year nobody ever saw or heerd ary thing
            o' the hant, but lately it has come back agin. Howsomever, I
            wa'n't a-thinkin' o' the hant when I called you out
            here, but o' the gang what calls theirselves the Knights o' the Golden
            Circle."
          
          "I have heard something about such an organization. It is composed of rebels
            who are too cowardly to go to war, is n't that about it?"
          "You hit the nail on the head that air time, Sammy. That's jist the
            kind o' copperheads they be."
          "Have they ever done anything or do they merely talk and threaten? Do you
            think they send supplies to the South?"
          "Whenever they git the chanct, they do that air very thing."
          "Anything else?"
          "You remember Mrs. Orton, Sammy?"
          "Yes."
          "Well, she's been a-talkin' purty strong an'
            callin' these here fellers cowards fer not fightin' fer their country,
            an' one night 'bout week ago, they tuk her out an' whipped
            her an' tol' her ter keep her mouth shet after this. An' Jim
            Strong's boy was home two or three weeks ago an' he went round quite a
            bit tryin' ter git some o' the boys ter enlist, an' one
            mornin' he was found by the roadside shot dead. We 'low it were the
            nights o' the Golden Circle."
          "I suppose Bob Halstesd belongs?"
          "He shore do, an' some thinks that Hank is back an'
            takin' a part. Now, what I wanted ter say ter you specially was that you must
            be on your guard constant agin these here fellers. Bob an' Hank do n't love you none, nohow, an' I'm
            powerful a-feared somethin"ll happen ter you--ef you ain't right smart
            keerful."
          "Thank you Mr. Posey," said Sammy earnestly. "You are--you
            have always been--a good friend. I shall keep my eyes open--depend upon that. I, too,
            believe that Hank is back. I sometimes think that he was never very far away--exept for
            spasmodic jaunts with his Guerrilla brethren--and I do not doubt that he is one of the
            leaders of these Knights of the Golden Circle. It is altogether likely that the gang
            hold their meetings in Hank's old house. When Zack gets home, we'll go
            after that ghost again and this time he won't get
            away."
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XVIII
          THE REAPPARANCE OF THE GHOST
          ZACK had been at 'home hut a few short hours when Sammy
            projected a cloud upon his happy horizon of long hours for sleep, good things to eat,
            and much time for love-making and flaunting a soldier's uniform, as unexpected
            and as startling as a clap of thunder from a clear sky.
          "Now, Sammy," he expostulated, despairingly, "that
            air's too bad. You had n't orter ast me ter do that. You know
            I'm skeered ter death o' hants. I would n't 've
            'plied for a furlough if I'd knowed you was a-goin' ter lug
            me off hant-huntin' agin. 'T ain't fair."
          "Oh, of course, if you do n't want to go, I'll go by myself.
            I waited for you to come. I thought two heads would be better than one, and
            there's no one else I'd care to trust--except your dad, and
            it's hardly fair to ask him. They might shoot, you know, but you and I are used
            to that. I thought you had certainly outgrown that silly superstition after all the real
            dangers you have lived through."
          
          "Oh, if it was only shootin' that a body had ter be a-feared
            of" said Zack, dismissing that premise with an indifferent shrug of the
            shoulders, but returning dismally to the fateful topic of the ghost. "But a
            hant! There's no countin' on a hant, 'cause there do
            n't nobody know what a hant's meanin' ter up an'
            do--"
          "Then you would rather not go?"
          "O' course I'd ruther not go," exclaimed Zack, in
            exasperation. "But that's not a-sayin' I ain't
            a-goin'. If you're set on bein' a idjit, I 'low I
            might as well be one, too. I 'low the company 'd ride me on a rail
            clear ter Kingdom Come if I went back without you. So if you're kilt or
            spirited away, I might as well be, too. But 't ain't fair.
            It's ornery mean, that's what it is. Seems like I ain't never
            a-goin' ter git no rest."
          "When do you thing it would be best to go?"
          "Not till I've seen Susie, anyhow. I come home ter see
            her--an' pap an' mam--an'the young 'uns--not
            hants," replied Zack disconsolately.
          "Will you go with me tomorrow night?" persisted Sammy, relentlessly;
            then, a sudden memory of Zack's dogged devotion and untiring care during those
            interminable thirsty weeks when he tossed in fever coming over him, he added, his voice
            breaking a little, "You have never failed me yet, Zack. You know whom I am
            trying to run to earth--and you know why. And now there is
            a thousand times more reason why. My father does n't need vengeance now--but I
            believe that the safety and happiness--perhaps the lives--of my mother and sisters, and
            of yours, Zack, are in danger. Shall we go tomorrow night?"
          "Yes, Captain!" said Zack, unconsciously saluting, not only his
            superior officer, as he would have done had they both been back with the regiment on the
            Mississippi, but this new call to duty as well. Duty, duty, duty! Zack's heart
            was right, and besides he had been trained to it in a rigid school--war is a hard, hard
            master--he would not fail, but from the depths of his old naturew,slow, easy-going,
            careless, shiftless, would ever come now and then the hurt, fretful cry, "Seems
            like I ain't never goin' ter git no rest."
          They did not wait in the attic for a ghostly illumination this time, but at midnight
            the two set out quietly for the deserted house. The April woods were dark, still, and
            heavily redolent of blossoming locust and poplar and other sweet-scented flowering
            things, and deep in slumber except for the occasional drowsy chirp of a bird or the
            slipping away of some small creature disturbed underfoot. They spoke no word but pressed
            on side by side, each intent upon his own thoughts. As they came out into the clearing,
              they saw a light suddenly flash out from a window in the
            front room. Zack gasped and instantly began to shake--his old uncontrollable fear of the
            supernatural laying a clammy hand upon all his nerve centers--but he kept valiantly on
            until, as they drew nearer, shrieks, unearthly moans and long wailing issued from the
            house and made night at once hideous and fearsome. They were overdoing the part tonight.
            In that would be their downfall. So Sammy reasoned, and so he believed, and yet, oddly
            enough, there entered into his consciousness at that moment, the same prickly, unearthly
            sensation which had raised the hair on his head that June night of two years ago when,
            after diligent search, he had acknowledged to himself that there was no place where the
            ghost might have gone--except through the wall, or vanished into space. As for Zack, he
            faltered, drew back, came to a dead halt. But Sammy had no thought of consideration for
            him then. The situation was too intense to admit it. He dragged his reluctant companion
            almost to the very door, sagging on its hinges.
          "Remember, Zack," he said, in an impressive whisper, "the
            ghost is not to get away this time. Whatever happens, he is not to get away! Whatever happens! Remember that! It is like that charge. We just dare
            not break! You stay here. Keep in the shadow so you
            can't be seen or--surprised, and watch out for Hank or any one else. No one is
            to come in until I have routed out this masquerader. If Hank shows up, you will know
            what to do. My plan is to creep to the door and then rush in so suddenly and
            unexpectedly that Mr. Ghost will be taken by surprise. He will then be easy
            prey."
          Zack agreed to this arrangement with alacrity.
          "Now, you're talkin'," he said, approvingly.
            I'd a heap sight ruther stay out here an' meet Hank, or the whole kit
            an' bilin' o' their old Golden Circle, for that matter, than
            ter stick my head in at that air door."
          Drawing a quick breath, Sammy threw open the drooping door and sprang across the
            threshold, at the same time flashing aloft a lantern which had been muted under his army
            cloak. Yes, there was the ghost--the same strange, uncanny apparition of two years
            ago--the clinging grave clothes, the same glow of unearthly fire pointing out eyes, nose
            and mouth. It swayed in the dull light, and again Sammy's nostrils were
            assailed by the damp, escaping odor of mildew.
          "This is child's play!" he cried, curtly. "Drop
            this silly masquerading! I will shoot you where you stand, else! You shall not get away
            this time!"
          
          A low ripple of mocking laughter seemed to float through the dead air of the room as
            the white draperies floated through the dividing doorway as they had done that other
            time, and the door closed upon them. Again, upon trial, he found it locked. Strange, how
            history repeated itself. Two or three vigorous kicks were suficient to bring the bolted
            door sagging free from broken binges, and, in a moment, Sammy was in the further room,
            swinging his lantern into every nook and corner of the tenantless apartment. As before,
            the tiny-paned windows were fastened upon the inside. Notwithstanding his thorough
            examination of two years ago for any sign of a trap-door in ceiling, floor, or walls, he
            went conscientiously over the same grounds again.
          He even tried to pry up some of the boards of the rough flooring, only to find them
            fast, with the dust of years filling up the cracks and rising in a choking cloud,
            stirred by his unavailing efforts. He next concentrated his attention upon the
            discolored wainscoting which met the rough plaster about three feet from the floor.
            There must be some hidden key to the situation here! He had never believed in ghosts,
            not really, but while before he had, in spite of his brave belief, grown cold and shaky
            in the presence of this baffling mystery, now--except for the momentary trick of memory outside--all undefinable fear or shrinking from the
            thought of the supernatural was singularly wanting, and he prosecuted his search sanely,
            thoughtfully, determinedly. Finding nothing at all suggestive in the wainscoting, he
            returned nonplussed to the first room.
          "Poor Zack," he mused, half-humorously. "He never will get
            over his barbaric views on the ghost question now. And he'll imagine that I am
            secretly convinced, when I had so hoped to convince him, let alone all other
            considerations. I won't give up I wonder--I wonder--there must be a way out--I
            wonder--Gee-whilli-kens! I never noticed that before!"
          A small door just south of the one leading to the room beyond had caught his
            speculative glance--unnoticed before because the ghost had not returned to this room,
            and he had not attached much importance to it, confining his exertions to the mysterious
            one beyond whence the specter had gone--and yet was not.
          Opening this smaller door quickly, he discovered a large closet nearly filled with
            sacks of grain stacked up against the inner wall. The blood flushed his face and receded
            as quickly, leaving him cold and trembling at the quick recoil of his senses from the
            sudden chilling question that leaped unasked to his brain.
          
          "Was it wheat? Was it that wheat?"
          Ah, memory, memory, memory! Was he never to forget? Only a moment, remembering a sunny,
            stubbled field, a whirring flock of blackbirds, and a quiet form upon the ground, then,
            with a steady hand, but without much purpose, for the room beyond held the secret, he
            began pulling down the heavy sacks. During the process, he suddenly uncovered what
            seemed to be the top of a huge box. The effect of this find worked a marvelous
            transformation. His brain whirled with excitement, his hands plucked savagely at the
            sacks yet concealing the rest of the supposed box. And that is what it proved to be--a
            creepy-looking one at that, for it was not unlike the rough pine box around a coffin,
            only deeper. At a rough estimation, it seemed to be about three feet deep, three feet
            wide, and perhaps five or six feet long.
          "At last!"was Sammy's first thought, a great relief flooding
            his soul and dispersing the shadows that had plunged him into such a gloom of
            despondency when he had thought his quest had been in vain. He hardly knew what he
            expected to find; but that he had discovered the hiding-place of deviltry, he did not
            doubt for a moment. "And what an ingenious cuss!" he mused.
            "All nicely nailed in! Now, how do you suppose he got there? Well, we will just
            find out."
          
          With a dulled, rusty hatchet found upon the floor and partaking of the general look of
            disuse, decay, and deserted forlornness which characterized the cabin and its meager
            equipment, he began prying off the top of the box. Before the first nails were out, he
            heard something fall in the next room. Enlightenment entered his mind in a blinding
            flash. Snatching up the lantern, he sprang through the intervening doorway just in time
            to behold the ghost crawling through a large opening in the wainscoting. In the
            confusion of his unexpected and precipitate flight from the box, the ghost had doubtless
            let the door, the location of which had been so well concealed, fall with more force
            than he had anticipated thus giving Sammy the clue to the whole tawdry mystery. Setting
            the lantern down quickly, he threw his arms around the hideous object as it slowly rose
            from the floor, pinioning it as in a vise. His first instinct was to call to Zack to
            come and search for concealed weapons while he himself held the ghost helpless in his
            arms; but he shook his head smiling dubiously as he glanced at the glowing, bluish
            lights seeming as if they would bore a hole right through him as he looked.
          "No, not yet. Poor old Zack would lose his mind, I verily believe, upon sight
            of--that. And then this is not Hank--it is too small-- like the other time--and Hank may come. I need Zack out there."
          He cautiously felt around for a gun, but finding none, he began tearing away the
            ghostly wrappings. First of all came the gleaming mask.
          "Susie!" gasped Sammy, in amazed incredulity. "Susie
            Halstead! You--you--of all people! Why, you were not brave enough! You were always a
            scared little thing! Why did you do it?"
          "He--he's my own uncle--I 'low I had ter help him,"
            came the answer, in a small, stifled, trembling voice, all her courage gone in a moment.
            She was shaking as with ague, and her pretty little face was as white as the grave
            trumpery she wore.
          All of Sammy's sternness vanished, for it hurt him to think of the sweet,
            blooming, childish face with its trustful gaze that yet sparkled with girlish coquetry
            at a moment's notice, that he remembered so well in Zack's sweetheart,
            brought to straights such as this--all under the baleful influence of that parasite upon
            the bounty of the earth which gave him room to which he was not entitled--Gerry
            Goodman's murderer. He could not understand how it had come about. Timid,
            shrinking, affectionate, simple-hearted little Susie Halstead, idol of good, stanch,
            lovable, original, old Aunt Salina's heart! There could be no guile in Aunt Salina Haskin's sunny nature. It was as an open
            book. Her daughter, Serepta, Susie's mother, was a singularly good woman for
            her opportunities. Whence had come this strain of bad blood? From the Halsteads, of
            course. But, after all, did it show such bad blood on her part? She had said,
            "I 'low I had ter help him." He was her father's
            brother, and blood, the old saying goes, is ever thicker than water.
          He forbore questioning her farther, for awhile, noting the panic of fear which gripped
            her as she stared in speechless terror at her captor. Instead, to give her a little
            time, he stooped and picked up the fore-arm and hand of a human skeleton and a white
            mask shining with phosphorous, shrugging his shoulders in derisive scorn that any should
            think to deceive him, Sammy Goodman, with such cheap mummery as this. The manner in
            which Susie's refuge, when cornered, was concealed, was clever, very clever
            indeed; but to play ghost on him--that was the weak spot in the armor of the
            malefactors, whoever they might be. It might do for Zack and--others, but not for him.
            And yet, it had been a right fearsome spectacle!
          quot;You certainly were rigged up in a manner befitting old Satan himself," he
            said at last, admiringly. "You were enough to scare the wits out of any one. The trouble with you, Susie," he continued,
            in a lower voice and very seriously, "was that you forgot that I do not believe
            in ghosts--and that if I did, I should not be afraid of my father's
            spirit."
          At that moment, Zack came slipping into the room, his face alight with eager
            excitement. "Hank's a-comin'! he cried, in a hushed but
            vibrant whisper, then, catching sight of the big-eyed, trembling culprit who cowered
            against the wall as if to ward off recognition, he cried out in astonishment:
          "Why, Susie! What on earth are you a-doin' here? An'
            what's the matter? You look so skeered--an' wild. You ain't
            a-feared o' me, air you? I ain't no hant--honest Injun!"
          He was too startled to comprehend all at once the significance of her presence in
            conjunction with the heap of ghostly paraphernalia lying upon the foor.
          "It is Susie who is the ghost," said Sammy, grimly. "Is Hank
            alone?"
          "An' ter think I was a-feared o' Susie!" said Zack,
            in a low, dazed voice, staring at her as if he could not believe his senses.
            "But why--"
          "Never mind why," interrupted Sammy, impatiently, extinguishing the
            lantern as he spoke. "We have n't time for explantions now. Where is
            Hank--and is he alone?"
          
          "'Peared like he was comin' straight here,"
            pondered Zack, coming back to the exigencies of the situation with difficulty, and still
            staring at Susie through the gloom. "I did n't see no one else but
            jist Hank. I 'low he's right out there now less 'n he
            mistrusted--"
          "Come to the other room," cried Sammy, hurriedly. "And stand
            on one side the door while I stand on the other. When he comes in, we'll both
            of us nab him. If he saw the light--he would likely think it was Susie's. Do
            n't you dare to give any alarm, my girl! It would only be the worse for Hank,
            for then we'd have to shoot."
          After giving his directions in a low voice, he and Zack crept softly to the outer door.
            Zack had left it ajar, and the cool, spring, night air drifting in served to dissipate
            much of the nausea attendant upon Sammy's encounter with grave clothes and
            phosphorus--and how good it was to be waiting to deal with a man now--the man of all
            men! Susie had nonplussed him. He had not known what to do with Susie. She was such a
            slip of a girl--and Zack loved her--and Zack was, well, Zack was Zack. But he should
            know what to do with HankI!
          A moment, and they heard footsteps approaching. They had an eerie sound, though the
            ghosts of the place had been laid forever. Both Sammy and
            Zack thought of footsteps through fallen autumnn leaves of a long ago night when Prince
            had treed a 'coon. As then, they came straight forward, but this time, they did
            not swerve. Hank must have deemed that all was well for he stepped into the dark doorway
            without hesitation. Instantly, the boys were upon him; but he was a desperate man, and
            it was very dark in the room. He tore himself free and leaped outside. They followed him
            so quickly that there was neither time for him to get to the timber nor to hide
            anywhere. He turned and began to shoot. A great rage welled up in Sammy's
            heart, remembering how he had done that once before. The second shot was followed by a
            piercing scream, and the boys turned to see Susie throw up her hands in the white
            moonlight and fall in a heap just outside the door.
          "Go quick, Zack!" cried Sammy. "Quick, boy! Or she will die!
            I must follow Hank!"
          "He'll be too much for you alone, Sammy," said Zack, in
            dull, aching voice. He was standing stock still as if stunned. "I do
            n't dast ter leave you. Company E--"
          "Would you let her die there--alone?" cried Sammy, fiercely.
            "Go, I say. Do you dare disobey orders?" Then he sprang after the
            indistinct form speeding toward the timber.
          Sammy had always been fleet of foot and he gained
            rapidly. By the time the coveted timber was reached, he was so close that it was once
            more impossible for Hank to turn aside and hide; for he could not hide sound, even if
            sight failed in the darker night of the forest. But Crooked Creek was just ahead and as
            Sammy's arm shot out to seize the fugitive, he stumbled and fell over a
            twisted, exposed root, and Hank slipped over the high bank. Sammy sprang to his feet,
            hurried to the bank, and peered down into the bed of the murmering little stream; but
            Hank had disappeared. It was almost the exact spot where he had disappeared the night of
            the 'coon hunt. Disappointed, discouraged, sick at heart, he turned away at
            last, heaping mental epithets of scorn upon himself for not having fired at his enemy
            before he could reach the woods. But he had not wantd to kill, unless there was no other
            way, and he had thought there was another way. Now, he was helpless before the vastness
            and the blackness and the secrecy of the forest. He could only go back.
          Suddenly, he stopped as if struck with an idea, proceeded again for some little
            distance, turned and walked about thirty yards up the creek. Next, he crept toward it on
            his hands and knees. When he came to the bank of the creek, he concealed himself
            carefully behind a bush overhanging the edge and gazed long and yearningly down the stream shimmering here and there with patches of the late
            moonlight. Perhaps ten minutes passed away thus before his reward came, and already the
            increased chill of approaching dawn was in the air. There was a faint rustling of the
            brush a short distance down the creek bed, and presently he saw Hank creep cautiously
            out into the open at the opposite water's edge. The man stood perfectly still
            for a moment, listening, then began walking quietly up the stream. Doubtless, he had
            pursued the same tactics the night of the 'coon hunt of long ago. There was
            some secret cave somewhere in the vicinity, doubtless. With tense muscles, Sammy waited
            until Hank was opposite his own hiding place--then he bounded across the narrow
            creek.
          All the bitterness and hatred against this man for all these long, long years, and the
            memory of the beloved father gone forever, with all the crying for him--in the night--of
            no avail because he never could come back, was nerving Sammy for the struggle. Hatred,
            love of life and liberty, fear of death, were causing Hank to fight with all the
            desperate strength there was in him. Back and forth they weaved across the shallow
            stream. Once, in the history of those who had pioneered upon its course, because it had
            overflowed its banks, it had inadvertently caused death. There was seeming that there
            was to be another death struggle. But if Hank's
            was the greater hate--the one who wrongs is ever a better hater than the
            wronged--Sammy's was the greater love--love of justice and truth, and of the
            good man who had gone; and love is the stronger after all. Fighting for Sammy, too, was
            his cleaner life. Presently, Hank began to pant and his hold grew less firm; another
            while, and he fell to the ground. He reached for his revolver, but, before he could use
            it, Sammy wrenched it from him.
          "I am going to turn you over to the authorities at once, Hank, for the murder
            of my father" said Sammy, coldly quiet now that his end was accomplished. The
            dream of years! At last! At last! "It all depends upon you whether I turn you
            over dead or alive. I will shoot you if you attempt to escape. Come--we will first
            return to your house."
          "If I had only killed you--when you were in my power--back there in
            Missouri," said Hank, in the low, brooding tone of an exceeding bitterness of
            spirit.
          "Which you would have done, I believe, if you had n't been frightened
            away first, or if we had been there when you returned," said Sammy, curtly.
          Zack was sitting upon the ground with Susie's head on his lap. He had a pan of
            water and was tenderly bathing a ragged looking wound in
            her right shoulder. Her face was white and pinched and infinitely pathetic in the pale
            moonlight. "I'm a-feared she's pretty hard hit,"
            said Zack, shaking his head mournfully.
          "Does it hurt much?" asked Sammy, as he knelt down beside the girl.
            "Poor little Susie--and you were so brave--mistakenly so, of course--but oh, so
            brave, braver than Zack here who is a soldier, and yet he was afraid of a poor little
            woman mite like you," he rallied her, hoping to win a smile which should tell
            him that her hurt was not serious. What a low-down, cowardly, brutal trick in Hank to
            have used this sweet, simple, light-hearted granddaughter of old Aunt Salina so
            ruthlessly and selfishly for his own fiendish purposes! But, after all, it was like him.
            "Tell me, Susie, does it hurt much?"
          "Not very," responded Susie, faintly. "It ain't
            very bad, Sammy, Zack 'lows I'm purt nigh kilt, but I
            ain't."
          "What's the matter with you, Susie?" inquired Hank,
            impatiently. "Did you git skeert o' yourself?"
          "You shot me, Uncle Hank. You did n't mean to--no more 'n
            you meant ter shoot Mr. Goodman," said Susie, in a clear, steady, little voice,
            looking at no one but staring straight up into the shimmering star-shot sky overhead. It
              was as if her nearness to the things unseen gave this
            little unlettered backwoods maiden to see some earthly things more clearly.
            "You git too mad Uncle Hank, and then that makes you do other things--like
            shootin' Sammy when he was only a little boy, and meanin' ter shoot
            him now--when you got me instid. A body ain't got no need ter git so
            mad." She sighed and turned her head wearily on Zack's knees.
            "I 'm sorry you're took, Uncle Hank, but I 'low I
            ain't a-goin' ter play ghost for you no more."
          The cocks were ushering in the dawn with loud voices when, leaving Hank bound and
            helpless within his own ill-fated house to await the coming of the sheriff, Sammy and
            Zack bore the now unconscious girl to the Goodman home and laid her gently on the
            company bed in the best room.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XIX
          AN INTERLUDE
          SAMMY'S leave of absence was so nearly expired as to make it
            imperative that the next day but one be the last which he dared spend at home. Zack came
            over early in the afternoon, presumably to relieve the tired nurses--Mrs. Halstead,
            bitterly resentful toward her husband's brother, the snapping-eyed, voluble old
            Aunt Salina, for once too angry to be helpful, Mrs. Goodman and Mollie--and,
            incidentally, to see for himself that his suffering little sweetheart was not pestered
            into a fever by maternal fault-finding or grandmateral solicitation for more
            particulars, in that lady's insatiable lust for news. Oh, Zack was a famous
            nurse, as had been proved in Sammy's case, and he gently but firmly pushed them
            all out of the room, including Sammy, who solemnly winked, and closed the door softly
            upon them. In the new dignity of his worn uniform, that badge of deep experiences, and
            in their knowledge of his good report in his regiment and of how he had nursed Sammy,
            thereby saving his life, he commanded a new respect and a strange faith in his efficiency which he never could have done in the old days--before
            the war, and they went, unprotestingly, unquestioningly. And yet all he said was
            "You-all clear out an' rest. I'll set by Susie a
            spell."
          He thought she was asleep--so still she was. The doctor had said she would get well;
            but how very white, and thin, and ill she looked. He sat down by the bedside to watch
            over her while she slept, his great, loving heart swelling with protective tenderness.
            It seemed as if all his old clumsiness had been refined away by hardship, so quiet and
            gentle were all his movements. But Susie was not asleep.
          "Will they hang Uncle Hank, Zack?" came in a weak little voice from
            the depths of the feather pillow.
          "No such luck," said Zack, gravely.
          " Why--Zack!"
          "He killed the best man on this here earth, an'--he nearly killed
            you. He deserves hangin'--but he got cold feet--he knowed he would n't
            stand any show if it come ter a trial--an' the Court 'lowed him ter
            plead guilty yistiddy an' sentenced him for a number o' years.
            He'd orter a-hung--if he is your uncle, Susie."
          "I 'low you're orful mad at me, Zack. I'll--give
            your ring back--if you want me to," the voice was very, very low, and she
            fingered the cheap little gold-filled circlet
            flutteringly. "I 'low you would n't keer ter keep stiddy
            company with a hant."
          "I always did abominate hants," replied Zack, soberly. "But
            the doctor said you was a-goin' ter git well right soon an' so there
            ain't no danger o' yer bein' a hant yit awhile, thank God!
            Play-likin' do n't count with me. I never was a-feared o'
            flesh an' blood. You can ask Sammy about that."
          "Why, Zack," the pale, pinched face was suffused with a glow that was
            almost pink, and her eyes danced ike stars, "do you mean--why, you're
            a soger, an' a soger could marry anybody--do you mean--you do
            n't mean you're goin' ter stick by me after what I
            done?"
          "I mean that I'm a-goin' ter marry you jist as soon as ever
            this here war is over," said Zack, with great simplicity.
            "An' now you have talked a passel an' I 'low
            you'd better quit awhile an' rest, or you'll git a
            fever."
          There was quiet for awhile--a long while. Her eyes were closed. One of his big hands
            lay quiescent upon his knee, the other upon the exquisitely hand-woven blue counterpane
            of the company bed, the kind of a counterpane that makes heirlooms. He was dreaming of
            that day when the war should be over. Presently, a thin, white, oh, a very white hand
            reached out and was laid flutteringly upon the big brown
            one on the counterpane.
          "Zack," it was only a whisper, "Bob--he always sided with
            Uncle Hank, an' he jined the Knights of the Golden Circle 'cause Uncle
            Hank was the leader--but Gran'ma an' man an'
            me--we're Union. I never helped the Knights, honest, Zack, I never did. They
            never were there at Uncle Hank's old house. It was jist Uncle
            Hank--'cause he wanted ter come home. It's so lonesome without a
            home."
          After his summary dismissal, Sammy left the house and wandered rather aimlessly about
            the premises. The girls were out in the garden, making the most of these fair, April
            planting days, Mollie digging the hills while Ama Jane dropped the potatoes. They might
            not even make holiday on this last day of all, for farming is slow work for women and
            girls and means long hours and many, many of them. He might go and help. He would be
            royally welcomed, he knew, and more for his companionship than his labor, too, but--he
            did n't just feel like it, somehow. He had so many things to think about; only,
            somehow, he always found himself rather dreaming than thinking. It was the last day. He
            did not feel much like talking, even to the girls. The regiment was calling him
            strongly. He was glad to go--and yet--it was the last day.
            It was better understood now what General Grant's long, toilsome, tedious,
            silent winter of canalling and bayou-navigating meant. He had only been biding his time.
            And when that military giant, who knew so well when not to speak as well as when to
            speak, his plans fully matured, really decided to move upon Vicksburg, it would be no
            child's play. Many, oh, many, many would not come back. It was altogether
            within the probabilities that he should never see the sun on Mollie's dusky
            brown hair again, as she stooped to her task, scorning sunbonnets, nor see Ama Jane
            straighten her tired little back after each throw, with a quaint little gesture of utter
            distaste which spoke more plainly than words could have done that, when she grew up, she
            was going to have servants to do her work, while she just read and read and wore
            beautiful clothes and went everywhere.
          So he smiled a little sadly as he turned sway. And then, without definitely willing it
            so, he found himself after a while in the woods back of the old schoolhouse, and, with a
            whimsical sigh of remembrance, wandered down to the creek and sat down upon a stump.
            Could it be the same--verily, it was the very same stump upon which he sat after his
            fight with Bob Halstead when he had been worsted by treachery, and here it was that
            little Mary Ann Hamilton had come to him and comforted
            him. Dear little Mary Ann! She had been a true-hearted child-sweetheart, and a valiant.
            How they all came trooping back to him, memories of that day, as he sat staring dreamily
            at the very place in the creek where he had washed his face so that she might see that
            it was not all hurts--mostly just blood and dirt and sweat. It all seemed but yesterday;
            and yet--how much had happened since then. Now, in very truth, was
            "pap's" honor vindicated. He need fight for it no more. And
            yet--it could not bring his father back. Was it worth while? Was anything worth while
            except peace, and home, and love, and the sun in Mollie's hair? Yes, a thousand
            times, yes, but the place brought it all back so poignantly, the loss, the bitterness of
            the loss he had felt that day, which all his fighting of Bob, and all his taking of Hank
            at last, could not lighten. There is no compensation for a loss like that. Perhaps, in
            this world, no justice to balance the taking of life. In the world beyond--Ah, well, it
            all happened long ago, though it did seem but yesterday! Angry bitterness toward Bob for
            his base insinuations against Gerry Goodman, and resentment against his treacherous
            attack with a bat were changed to contemptuous indifference. It was a happier feeling if
            not a holier. All his passionate protest against the injustice of Hank's being
            at large while his father had to go was exorcised at last
            by the consummation of his fierce desire. The physical suffering which he had
            endured--war made him laugh at boyish bruises. While the one bright spot in the memories
            of that day, Mary Ann Hamilton and her sweet, shy sympathy, he dwelt upon with smiling
            tenderness and knew that he would cherish it forever.
          A light footstep behind him. Could it be Mary Ann? He was still under the spell of
            memory and at that moment it seemed the most natural thing in the world that little Mary
            Ann should come tripping up behind him as she had that winter's day in the long
            ago which now seemed but yesterday. He sat perfectly still, fearing to dispel the
            illusion. Two soft, cool hands were placed over his eyes.
          "Mary Ann" he said, aloud.
          "Wrong. Guess again," a soft voice whispered.
          "I give up!" and Sammy reached up to take hold of the hands to remove
            them, but, of their own accord, they were hastily withdrawn. He turned quickly.
          "Sara Brown!" he cried, springing to his feet, all at once the light
            of the world in his eager eyes.
          "Right!" was the laughing reply. "You are an excellent
            guesser--when you can see. How disappointing, after all
            one's dreams, to wake up and find--just prosaic, old me, army nurse and whilom
            tyrant, in the place of--Mary Ann, sweetheart. I'm awfully sorry I intruded.
            Father and were passing and I saw you come here--but rather thought you would say,
            'The scout's wife.' You used to think everybody was she, you
            remember."
          "I would rather it was you than any other person on earth," replied
            Sammy, earnestly, holding her hands, which had so cleverly tricked him, in close, firm
            grasp. "And I think you know it. There has never been anyone but you. I have
            loved you since the day I found you--in the cellar. I wanted to tell you at Helena, but
            you sent for Herbert and went away. You have always been a mystery. You are here--you
            are there--like the genii. You come like the sun in the morning but you flit away again
            like a thief in the night. But I know you now. You are destiny--and I shall not let you
            go again."
          "Oh," she said, her breath coming a little quickly, but smiling
            mischievously still, "but Mary Ann--you were expecting her--waiting for her--to
            keep tryst here--at some old remembered meeting place--"
          "Mary Ann is a child--a memory," he explained, simply. "I
            was thinking about a day when we were boy and girl at school, here in the woods by Crooked Creek, and she was good to me, when you came
            slipping up behind me. I thought I was a boy again. There never has been any one but
            you. How or why you are here, you can tell me later--if you want to. Now, I only want
            your promise. Will you marry me when I come back, Sara Brown?"
          How still it was there on the banks of the fateful little stream. It alone rippled and
            murmured and babbled ceaselessy, for it talked of the mysteries, which are without end.
            She had tried to free her hands, but he was too strong for her and too determined. If
            she were a dryad of the wood, ready to scamper away into invisibility by way of some
            giant tree trunk, at least the miracle should be performed before his very eyes, out of
            his very hands. She was bare-headed, her poke-bonnet with its delicious pink rosebuds
            swinging over her arms, and was clad in a soft, dainty spring gown, so altogether unlike
            her severely plain garb of their other meetings that it was little wonder he likened her
            to a wood-nymph. She seemed the very spirit of April--of the spring. Her brown eyes were
            wistful, downcast. There was a breathlessness in the waiting--even as there was a
            breathlessness in the forest. The sun had disappeared behind a bank of clouds in the
            west which had been steadily creeping up till it was now almost overhead, and all the forest awaited in still awe the coming of the April
            rain. It had been a warm day. The storm would be a heavy one. But neither of the young
            people there by the dimpling stream was thinking of the approaching thunder shower at
            all They were both a little pale.
          "Father is waiting for me--yonder," she said, at last, in a low
            voice, not yet daring to meet his eyes which were fixed so steadfastly upon the drooping
            head. "I saw you come here, as I said, and I followed you--to surprise you. I
            knew you would be surprised to see me in Indiana. But I must be going now, father is
            waiting."
          She looked up suddenly, looked him straight and full in the eyes, in her own, the old
            baffling look of the ages of womankind. Were they smiling--were they weeping--were they
            challenging--were they mocking--were they kind or cruel--were they sad or glad or mad?
            Heaven alone knew--not Sammy Goodman. A moment she dazzled him thus, a hesitating,
            palpitating, questioning moment, then she said, quietly:
          "Good-by, Captain Goodman. Do n't get killed if you can help it. You
            are such a rampant forgetter--in a battle."
          "You have not answered my question," he persisted, steadily.
          "Why, the storm is almost here,' she cried out, suddenly, as the
            thunder at that moment began rolling and muttering over
            the tree-tops. There was a strange twilight in the forest. "I must
            run--good-by!"
          But he held her.
          "Come to the house," he cried, quickly. "When the storm is
            over, you may go wherever you were going. Quick now, before we run for it--will you
            marry me, Sara Brown?"
          "Sara Brown will never marry you," she made answer, quite calmly,
            though her hands were trembling. "Sometime, perhaps, you will know why. Not
            now. Good by, and remember, oh, remember, Captain, that I will be
            praying every day and every nght that you may come back to us."
          He was so dazed, so hurt, so bitterly disappointed, that he let her go. There seemed
            nothing else to do. The end of the world was come. He stood where she had left him a
            long, long time, with bent head and unseeing eyes. The first rain-drops were pattering
            on the new leaves of the forest when at last he turned to leave the little woodland
            scene and walked slowly homeward.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XX
          "WHERE THE SWEET MAGNOLIA BLOSSOMS GREW AS WHITE AS SNOW"
          SAMMY rejoined the regiment at Millians Bend just before the
            batteries at Vicksburg were run fifteen miles of them, without loss of life; all honor
            to the fearless, indomitable-souled Admiral Porter for it. The lack of casualties was
            the more remarkable in that the blockade was run, of necessity, because of the
            Confederate anticipatory activity, by the brilliant light of huge bonfires on the east
            side of the river and of burning houses opposite the city on the Louisiana side. The
            hazardous but momentous undertaking, splendidly conceived, was splendidly executed, and
            the spectacle of it was weird, magnificent, awful.
          Admiral Porter with his eight gunboats finding Grand Gulf as impossible of taking by a
            front attack as Vicksburg on account of its location on a lofty bluff with the river
            laving its very feet, ran also these batteries, the night of the twenty-ninth of April.
            The Thirteenth Army Corps, Major-General McClernand com- mending, of which the Eighteenth Indiana was a part, now in General Carr's
            Division, was marching under cover of the night aross the point of land on the west side
            extending toward Grand Gulf--the top of a levee making it possible for the troops to
            move over an otherwise wholly impracticable stretch of low wet land--to meet the gunboat
            fleet and the transports under its escort, when Zack returned to the regiment. Its
            roster and ranks were then as full as they had been since Pea Ridge.
          On the morning of the thirtieth of April, 1863, the Eighteenth Indiana and other
            portions of the Thirteenth Army Corps were landed by transports at Bruinsburg, on the
            rebel side of the river at last, and, during the day, the balance of theCorps and one
            Divisionof the Seventeenth Army Corps, Major-General McPherson commanding, was landed.
            Grant was at last, after months of yearning and of waiting, in the enemy's
            country, but with a "vast river and the stronghold of Vicksburg"
            between him and his base of supplies--and he had twenty thousand men with whom to begin
            this gigantic campaign as opposed to sixty thousand, strongly garrisoned at Grand Gulf,
            Haines' Bluff, and Jackson. There must have been with him a lonesome feeling
            whether he was conscious of it or not; and many a boy, putting foot upon this hostile
            and menacing shore, turned and gazed yearningly back upon
            the transport he had just left and upon the safe, happy, but far away, receding
            Louisiana line, bidding a mute farewell before being swallowed up in the country of his
            foe.
          Grand Gulf, to be used as a first base, was the first objective point. As fast as the
            troops debarked and were supplied with two-days' rations, they were pushed
            rapidly toward the high ground two miles inland. In order to intercept them and prevent
            their taking and occupying Grand Gulf, as was confidently expected would be attempted,
            the Confederate garrison at that point would find it necessary to proceed by way of Port
            Gibson, twelve miles in the interior, where was the first bridge spanning Bayou Pierre,
            a navigable stream, and, as were all streams in the Mississippi Valley that winter and
            spring, swollen with flood water.
          That same evening, the Thirteenth Corps, having arrived at the bluffs just short of
            sundown, McClernand pushed forward on the Port Gibson road. The country in that part of
            Mississippi does in very truth "stand on edge." The hills are high and
            steep, for the most part heavily timbered, and the ravines are correspondingly deep,
            very deep indeed for battle grounds, and rendered well-nigh impenetrable by masses of
            vine and canebrake. The roads run along the ridges and
            follow the curves. The Thirteenth Corps sometimes found these curves so sharp that the
            head and rear of a column would be so close together that the men could have conversed
            one with the other, had it been permitted. But it was not permitted. The enemy was
            somewhere in the neighborhood. Of that, there could be no doubt. All orders were given
            in whispers. It was a silent, ghostly march. Men trod softly. Occasionally, the hoot of
            an owl could be heard, a lonesome sound at best, and many an impressionable boy
            shivered--he knew not why.
          Company E of the Eighteenth Indiana was well up toward the head of the column,
            Benton's Brigade, to which it belonged, leading the night march. Across a deep,
            dark ravine on the other side of a big curve, the rear of the Eighteenth was moving
            forward silently, plainly discernible in the brilliant moonlight of the Southern night,
            while on this side, Zack and his fellows also pushing as quietly and doggedly ahead,
            could have hailed their comrades across the chasm had they dared.
          "Makes me feel creepy," complained Zack, in an awed whisper to Sammy
            marching close by at the side of the company. "'T would n't
            s'prise me none ter see hants flittin' 'mongst the cane down
            yander."
          "But it would n't be Susie this time, Zack" replied Sammy, with humorous gravity, "so do n't
            strain your eyes ravine-gazing. You'll need them when hell-fire for sure comes
            shooting out of those black abysses or somewhere round about out of secret places. Rebel
            guns are the only ghost lights I dread."
          Hardly had he ceased speaking, when heavy volley of musketry flashed in the very faces
            of the moving men. The vanguard of the Thirteenth Corps--marching swiftly and stealthily
            forward in the faint hope of being first at the coveted bridge and so preserving it for
            the safer and more expeditious crossing of the army--had, without warning, run straight
            up against the waiting Confederate defence at Thompson's Plantation about five
            miles west of Port Gibson. But the weird night march, the lonesome hooting of the owls,
            seeming to bear prophetic messages in their strange cries, the knowledge that their
            military seer confidently expected to be attacked somewhere on the road to Grand Gulf,
            saved the men from too great a surprise. The army as a whole never wavered, and
            individuals here and there who involuntarily swayed back from the sudden hot blast
            hurled in their faces quickly recovered when the order to advance was given.
          The rebels fell back across a ravine to the left of the road and reaching high ground
            on the far side opened fire with a battery. The flashes of the guns and the bursting shells lit up the night. It was another Witches'
            Revel on the Brocken--a most magnificent display of fireworks had not death stalked in
            the glare and lurked in the shadows. Pressing forward through the ravine, Company E got
            into position in a lane road leading up the hill. This road was so deeply worn and
            corrugated by usage and by tumultuous rains that it afforded a fair measure of
            protection to the men lying flat on their stomachs.
          "Gosh! l'm glad I ain't as fat as I used ter be
            'fore the war," Zack whispered across to Percy as he stretched his
            length along one of the natural trenches. "Used ter make me fightin'
            mad ter be a-gittin' so thin 'count o' bein' so
            hungry an' wored out all the time; but I 'low sichy state o'
            affairs has its good pints, too. Sammy always used ter say there was compensations for
            everything. That air's a fool doctrine most all the time. The
            exception's jist when you're a-lyin' in a sheller ditch
            an' have the satisfaction o' knowin' you ain't
            a-stickin' up behind."
          The enemy finally fell back still farther and the Union troops climbed into the vacated
            rebel position on the hill-top and waited for daylight. They lay in close column by
            divisions. There was desultory firing during the rest of the night but no real
            engagement.
          At eight o'clock in the morning, the right wing of the army, consisting of Carr's and Hovey's Divisions, advanced in
            column toward the new rebel position, under protection of a deep ravine to the right of
            the split road, Osterhaus's Division taking the left branch, Smith's
            being held in reserve. The ravine was an almost impenetrable mass of canebrake and the
            men floundered through the hot and steamy labyrinth as best they might, subjected all
            the while to the enemy's fire.
          Perhaps four hundred yards from the rebel line, they came to the head of the ravine,
            where stood a small country church on a ridge sloping gently to the south and east to
            the edge of an oval-shaped pasture green with springing grass. If the planter whose
            domain this was were perchance watching as the men of Carr's and
            Hovey's fighting divisions came bursting out of the canebrake, it must have
            seemed to him as if they were swarming up from the bowels of the earth after having
            discovered some hitherto unsuspected subterranean passage-way leading under fortified
            Vicksburg--that mistaken hope of Jefferson Davis. With this fair oval field, the ground
            rose again, and some sixty yards beyond was the rebel line, bristling with the guns of
            the entire Grand Gulf garrison under General Bowen, doggedly defending, at an infinite
            advantage in a chosen position in a rugged country, where all nature, the nature of the
            Southland, favored the defender of its mistaken ideals.
            Just behind the little white meeting house with its silent, pitying poignant, steadfast
            but seemingly powerless appeal for peace, the Union army formed its line of battle and
            moved forward. The church split the Eighteenth Indiana almost exactly at the center
            forcing Company E out of the timber through which it was marching and into the main road
            to Port Gibson
          Suddenly Sammy experiened a constriction of the heart accompanied by a momentary
            paralysis of consternation. Reason enough there was for his terror. Directly in front of
            Company E, less than four hundred yards away, squarely set in the road so that the
            blanched faces of his men must gaze straight into their frowning muzzles, stood two
            field guns. His company, his comrades, his friends, tried and true, would be mowed down
            like grass before the blade! They stood no more chance than sheep led to the slaughterer
            when that battery should belch up death to all in its path. And that might be the next
            instant, and then, oh, the white and staring faces quiet in the road! It should not be,
            Omnipotent God, who gives to some the desire divine enough and quick enough to save! Up
            above his head flashed his sword, out rang his voice clear as a bugle call, sweet with
            the inspiration that had answered his need.
          
          "Company E, close up on the right!"
          The men hesitated, slow to grasp the meaning of the order under the circumstances, as
            the general order had been to advance.
          In an agony of apprehension, Sammy rushed to the front of the company, shouting his
            repeated order in a voice that thrilled with poignant appeal.
          "For God's sake, close on the right!"
          None too soon, the company, perceiving its dire extremity, lunged to the right,
            entering the timber and connecting with the right wing south of the church. The
            companies to the left immediately followed the movement, closing to the right, and
            bringing Company B into the roadway--to martyrdom--at the very moment that the two-gun
            battery opened fire, its grape and canister strewing the country road with at least
            two-thirds of the smiling boys of that hapless company. Oh, inscrutable God, at Whose
            humanly unreadable decree, those passed on from the place of death, and these passed
            in!
           Benton's Brigade now charged through a magnolia grove which was in full
            bloom. This grove was directly in the pathway of the frontal resistance and had been so
            riddled by bullets that the sweet, fragrant southern blossoms covered the ground like
            new-fallen snow, and the men literally moved over a soft, white carpet of flow- ers--those, indeed, who did not sink down upon it to stain
            its purity with the crimson of ebbing life-blood--while softly, softly, like snowflakes
            still falling, new petals came drifting down. The two-gun battery was supported by a
            brigade of infantry and their firing was deadly. Many who had escaped death at that
            first discharge of the guns, by virtue of young Captain Goodman's fortunate
            order--fortunate for the boys of Company E if not for the boys of Company B--met it now
            in the magnolia grove, with this only difference that they had for their winding sheet
            sweet white flowers instead of the dust of the road. Smoke curled through the trees and
            hid, mercifully, much of the havoc wrought; but it was a deadly charge, so deadly that
            when the reckoning came twenty-five per cent of the Eighteenth were silent when their
            names were called.
          "Zack! Zack! Come back! We can't stand this!" screamed Percy
            in the thick of it. "My God, think of Company B!"
          A few swift steps and Zack was in front of him.
          "Now you turn your face t' other way an' keep
            a-movin' or I'll run you through," he cried, grimly.
            "I've 'bout give you up--you 're the dundest coward
            in the army--there ain't ary mite o' hope for you. Next time you
            'tempt ter straggle, I 'low I let you go
            an' be shot for a deserter or spend your ornery life in hidin'
            an' cringing' an' cussin' an'
            wishin' you had been. I'm through. Next time 'll be the last
            time. I mean it!" His words came in exploded gasps with his running.
          Emerging from the magnolia grove, the troops found themselves at the edge of the oval
            field only sixty yards from the rebel line. This field was somewhat higher in the center
            than at either side, and, by pursuing wary tactics, the men were able to protect
            themselves to some extent from the fury of the fusillade flung out to meet them. They
            would lie down to load, then crawl up the slope, fire, and fall back. Sammy, walking up
            and down the line, presently perceived that Zack would load, slip up to the top of the
            incline, and shoot, all in such an ecstasy of wild excitement that the crack shot of
            Cracker's Neck might just as well have been firing blank cartridges into the
            air for all the effect his commendable activity was having behind the rail fence where
            the rebels were lying.
          "Come, come, Zack," he said, dryly, "quit shooting at the
            moon and shoot at the Johnnies for awhile--just to vary the monotony. Besides, they need
            it. The moon does n't. He's supposed to be neutral--and you are
            breaking the laws of neutrality by your madness."
          
          "It's a sight better to shoot at the moon than that-air fence, I
            'low. Some sport to that," Zack muttered, coming to himself with
            shame-faced resentfulness.
          "Nevertheless, the fence is the prescribed target in this game, and I prefer
            that you stick to it. You are too good a shot to be wasting ammunition in the
            air."
          "There are a right smart better shots in the company than me, Sammy,"
            replied Zack, modestly, "but I kin hit that air fence without battin'
            a eye, and if you're so dead sot on it for a target, why, you're the
            Captain, an' here goes. Or revoir, Mr. Moon!"
          For full three hours the two forces kept popping away at each other across the field.
            Once some troops to the left of the Eighteenth made a gallant but rash charge, and, as
            they were falling back, the jubilant rebels raised a mighty yell. It was the old,
            well-worn, well-known yell of the southern armies, but with a distinguishing twang to
            it, somehow. Zack firing vengefully away at the fence, doing what he could to make it
            pay for the repulse, recognized the "way down South" French
            "burr" of the Louisiana Tigers who had disputed the
            Eighteenth's determination to regain the Peoria Battery at Pea Ridge. With the
            recognition came an odd feeling of familiarity and old acquaintance, followed closely by
            the fierce desire to do again what had been done to this
            proud brigade once before. "Pea Ridge! Pea Ridge!" he yelled
            defiantly, sarcastically, and repeated the derisive epithet until his voice died away in
            hoarse gutturals.
          Reinforcements were sent for repeatedly. But Osterhaus on the left branch of the road
            was also hard pressed and his need was more urgent than McClernand's who was
            with his right wing and all available troops in reserve were sent to
            Osterhaus's relief. Finally, however, McGinnis's Brigade of
            Hovey's Division could be seen passing the church, following the route pursued
            by Benton's Brigade a few hours earlier.
          At the sight of the men in blue marcing confidently, cheerily, to the aid of
            Benton's weary, weary boys, hard-pressed and engaged in strenuous action since
            early morning, an electrical thrill swept over Sammy. And, curiously enough, while a
            sudden daring determination surged through his brain, a dreamy thought of bewitching
            Sara Brown drifted along the undercurrent of his thoughts, and, as have all soldier
            lovers since the world began, he wondered if she would be sorry if he never came back
            from this thing which he was going to do. And would she be proud of him as little Mary
            Ann had been in the old days? Oh, no, no, or else why, why, had she left him? Looking
            upon her now in memory's clarified vision, as she
            stood beneath the storm-menaced forest, he thought there were tears in those true
            eyes.
          "Come on, boys!" he shouted, carried away by the appeal of his daring
            conception and by the inspiration of the blue reinforcements. "Let's
            get that infernal machine of a battery and avenge Company B!"
          In an instant, his company was on its feet and charging across the field, a wild light
            in its eyes.
          "Halt!" commanded the Colonel.
          "Charge!" shouted Sammy. Rank insubordination, but the end, if
            attained, justified the means--with some commanders, and Colonel Washburn was
            remembering Sammy at Pea Ridge.
          Captain Charles of H Company now sprang forward.
          "Come on, Company H!"he cried, ringingly. " We'll
            be in on this!"
          He was followed by his entire command and part of K Company and a few scattered ones
            from other companies, and this fraction of the old Eighteenth made that mad charge in
            the face of a deadly fire from the battery and supporting infantry. Although it seemed a
            thing impossible that any should reach the battery alive, there was no halting, no
            faltering. Sammy and Captain Charles were running ahead and the men did not hesitate to follow such dauntless leaders. When within a
            short distance of the battery, the enemy fled in confusion. Sammy and Captain Charles
            arrived at the guns at the same time, Sammy placing his hand on one of the potentially
            deadly but now only sullen twin pieces, while Captain Charles jumped astride the
            other.
          A few moments later, the reinforcements from Hovey's Division came up. Had it
            not been for their appearance on the way to support Benton, it is very probable that the
            battery would never have been thus surrendered to a mere handful of the fighting
            Eighteenth, but, nevertheless, the participants felt pardonable pride in achieving the
            enviable distinction of being first in, and no one could deny that the charge across the
            gun-swept field was a right gallant one. Some prisoners captured from the Louisiana
            troops said they knew who was coming because they recognized the Colonel's
            voice. If they had also heard and understood Zack's taunting cry, they remained
            disdainfully silent on the subject.
          With the falling back of the enemy in McClernand's front, the fighting ceased
            in this part of the field. There was still some fighting to the left but soon the rebel
            forces here, too, fell back, and with the coming of dusk, the strange quiet of
            after-battle had descended upon Bayou Pierre, upon the
            ridges and the canebrake, upon the unheeded beckoning of the little church, upon some
            rags of flowers, sweet-scented and white in the morning, stained, beaten down,
            crushed--dust from which they sprang--at eventide, upon the bivouacked Federal army.
          Very early in the morning, Grant's advance army, unrepulsed in its initial
            step into the enemy's country, marched into Port Gibson.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXI
          "FIRST KETCH YOUR RABBIT"
          FOLLOWING the battle of Port Gibson, Grant threw his army between
            Pemberton at Vicksburg and Johnson at Jackson. He then marched to Jackson, drove Johnson
            from that city and then turned toward Vicksburg. On May 16th was fought the sanguinary
            battle of Champion's Hill, Pemberton having decided to check the advance of
            Grant, and, if possible, force him to recross the Mississippi. He was defeated and
            driven back to the intrenchments at Black River Bridge. The next day he was driven out
            of that position and forced back to the fortifications around Vicksburg. By the evening
            of the 18th of May, the investment of that city by the Union Troops was complete.
            McClernand's Corps took its position somewhat south of the city,
            McPherson's being east and Sherman's north. The Confederate defences
            were very strong. They consisted of a string of redoubts or earthen forts scattered
            along the line at intervals averaging a distance between of possibly a quarter of a
            mile, beginning at Haines' Bluff on  the north
            and continuing in a circle around to the river below, making the line about seven miles
            long. These redoubts were connected by rifle pits with deep ditches in front.
          On the twenty-first, General Grant decided to make a general assault the following day.
            Orders were sent to the different division and brigade headquarters to be prepared for
            this assault by ten o'clock on the morning of the twenty-second--a day heroic
            and terrible.
          Benton's Brigade was located in a ravine running nearly parallel with the rebel works
            and about three hundred and fifty yards removed. From the summit of the hill, the ground
            descended slightly in the direction of the defences for about half the distance and then
            there was a gradual ascent. At the bottom of the depression was some scattered
            brush--otherwise, the ground was clear.
          A few minutes before ten o'clock on the twenty-second of May, the troops were
            in position and the long line was ready to advance. It was an impressive moment; one
            never to be forgotten by the men waiting for the sound of the signal gun. Forty thousand
            men were about to charge well fortified works defended by thirty thousand men. Forty
            thousand men were about to go down into the valley--the valley of the shadow of death.
            It was a brave number. Who of the forty thousand would see
            Vickrsburg that day, or live to see it all in good time if not that day? Who of the
            forty thousand would pierce the shadow and find--the reality? Who would be the ones to
            fight on--who, to rest?
          "That air'll seem like a right smart distance across before we git
            over it," Zack drawled, as he and Selvin were standing in line waiting for the
            signal.
          "Shot in the back--shot in the back," murmured Selvin musingly.
            "Is that to be my fate at last? It shimmers so and it is so far--so very
            far--and so full of 'hants,' Zack, not sheeted ones like yours, but
            ghosts of fear, the fear of being hurt, the fear of being afraid, and, most of all, the
            fear of not being able to stand being afraid--the fear of panic."
          "Now, you jist perk up, Percy Selvin. Jist forgit everything but that you
            're a-takin' part in the biggest thing o' this here whole
            war. This'll end it for sure--an' ,jist think how uppy you
            'll feel tellin' your friends an' posterity in years ter come
            how you was in the charge at Vicksburg when thirty thousand men was took prisoners along
            with seven miles o' fortifcations."
          "If I am, you won't tell my mother, or the Captain, or Miss Brown,
            will you, Zack?" continued Selvin, still thoughtfully, his eyes on the sinister, bristling, but apparently unmanned ramparts
            sealing that fair, southern city.
          "Are what?" asked Zack, bluntly.
          "Shot in the back."
          "Quick--git that-air fool notion out o' your head once an'
            for all. You'll have ter turn a right smart more lively than I 'low
            you kin if you git ary chance ter git your back headed ter the enemy before I square you
            around ag'in."
          "But you said, you know, back there in the magnolia grove, that there would
            n't be another time," said Selvin, a glint of humor in the sombre
            brown eyes. "This time, I am to be left to my just deserts--to suffer the
            penalty, whatever it is to be. That is what you said, you remember."
          "Well, seein 's how it's you--an' you an'
            me' ve tramped it tergether for a right smart while--an'
            'lowin' I'd be party lonesome pluggin' along alone
            without you ter harangue--I'm willin' ter stretch it a p'int
            an make it jist one more time," said Zack, with great
            gravity.
          And then, from the center of the line, came the roar of the signal gun.
          "Company E," shouted Sammy, "let's be the first
            company over the works! Charge!"
          The long line moved forward. Men swarmed like bees from the numerous ravines where they
            had been sheltered. As Benton's Brigade broke over the hill and started down
            the incline, it was greeted with such a roaring of cannon
            and rattle of musketry as no one in that long line had ever heard before. All other
            battle experiences paled before it. And down, down, down over the valley settled the
            rolling smoke--like a pall--and down, down, down into the valley went the first of the
            forty thousand--to be wrapped in that pall. There was no faltering. The bottom of the
            depression reached and the opposite slope beginning to be climbed by those still
            fighting on, the firing was more deadly still, and men began falling by the
            hundreds.
          "Come on!" Zack yelled in Percy's ear.
            "We're over half way an' ain't dead
            yit!"
          They were not, but others were, and more falling all the time. Zack's battle
            madness, however, was so inspiring that Selvin was doing very well indeed, and was
            stumbling bravely up the rugged way when a comrade running on the other side of him was
            disemboweled, suddenly, as he ran. Selvin cowered to the ground and lay flat upon
            it.
          "Git up, or I'll kick the life out o' you!" roared
            Zack, starting in as if to carry his threat into instant execution. He kicked the
            prostrate man unmercifully and called him all the names he could bring to mind in the
            stress of the moment, and they were rather many. When memory failed him, he repeated. To
            a looker-on he might seem the stern task master,
            resentfully chastising a delinquent for bitter failure. The truth was that he loved this
            faulty boy--if it is a fault to shrink from the sight of red, arterial blood being
            pumped out so lavishly at such awful waste, to water the ground for the growing of
            peace--as the roughly chiseled but great-hearted so often love the fine, frail things of
            earth.
          At last Selvin staggered to his feet and stumbled on. Through his numbed and cowering
            senses, through his bewildered mind and shrinking soul, there flashed a saving impulse
            of humor. "Now, I wonder if this will be the last time? Zack
            forgot tosay," ran the thought.
          Coming to the ditches in front of a redoubt, they found that they were some eight feet
            wide and ten or twelve feet deep. A portion of the Eighteenth, carried forward by the
            impulse of the movement, was precipitated into these ditches. Being unable to cross
            them, the Federal forces lay down upon the ground and began a steady fire against the
            Confederate line of defences. They made it so dangerous for a rebel to show his head
            above the breastworks that there was little return fire from the enemy. They were in a
            comparatively safe position as they were, but enormous loss must inevitably follow a
            retreat--back across the smoking, mottled, moaning slopes. And thus it was determined
              that they should hold their position until they might
            retire in safety under cover of darkness. Presently, it was discovered that some guns in
            a fort to the right of the position occupied by the Eighteenth Indiana had an enfilading
            fire down the line and men were dropping in its pathway almost as grain before the
            reaper.
          "Captain Goodmsn, cried Colonel Washburn, " take your company and
            move back to the ravine--then move to the right and find a position where you can
            sharp-shoot those gunners!" Then, as Sammy turned immediately to obey this
            somewhat startling command, the Colonel added, laconically, without the shadow of a
            smile, although the gravity of his countenance under went subtle, momentary lightening
            as if he might be laughing inside of him, "And, mind you, Captain, do n't charge them!" And that was all Colonel Washburn ever
            said to Sammy Goodman showing that he remembered the insubordination of two mad captains
            and a handful of mad followers back there "Where the Sweet Magnolia Blossoms
            Grew."
          Sammy's face flushed but he did not dare to smile back. He saluted gravely and
            respectfully and proceeded to execute his commission, thinking the while with a very
            real throb of grateful affection of the Colonel's words in that blistering
            cornfield on the weary, weary march to Helena. With Union
            soldiers strung all along in front to keep the enemy down, it was thought that the
            company might move back without calling down the rebel fire upon them to any very
            damaging extent; but, after Sammy and his men had passed the bottom of the depression
            and had begun to climb the opposite slope, it was not necessary for the Confederates to
            expose themselves very much to the foe immediately before them in order to get a line
            upon the hastening figures on the far hillside bound on an errand boding no good to the
            besieged, and, almost instantaneously, the fire of the whole rebel line anywhere within
            range was turned upon the little bunch of blue-coats pluckily daring all for the
            glorious chance of silencing those enfilading guns. Now and again, one of the boys would
            fall. Had the distance been less, it is very probable that not one would have
            escaped.
          When almost within the safety zone, Selvin perceived all at once that Zack was not
            running by his side. Zack! Why, where was Zack? He passed his hand over his eyes,
            momentarily confused in his reasoning, for Zack had always been there. What could have
            happened to keep Zack away? He did not know what to do without Zack. Why, who would
            write that letter to his mother--that mother so thoroughly grounded in "book
            larnin'" that this same Zack had been awed by the mere thought of addressing her on paper with his crude, hieroglyphic-like
            penmanship and his cruder orthographic blunders? Who would kick and abuse him into line
            the next time? Was there then to be no "next time" after all? Zack had
            forgotten to say it back there--back there--the wandering thought reminded him to glance
            "back there."
          "Why, Zack! he cried aloud, with a sobbing breath. It wats not so very far
            back that Zack lay--perhaps fifty yards--but it was in the hell zone of fire--of shot
            and of shell--and the kindly, stalwart backwoodsman lay very low beneath it, the
            pitiless rain of it still pelting his quiet form.
          Had any one been watching Selvin at that moment, that one might have seen a strange
            little smile hovering over the boyish lips, as if it were saying,
            "Kismet," as if he had foreseen all the while something not yet come
            to pass--but coming. Oddly enough, too, all fear fell from him, at least the shrinking
            or consciousness of fear. One thought stood out distinctly, the thought that the
            helpless figure of his friend out there must be carried in out of the storm. Thus it was
            that simply, unquestioningly, unflinchingly, young Percy Selvin, whom Zack had
            befriended at all times, through good and evil report, turned and started back down the
            reek- ing, shell-swept slope. Thing seemed to be even more
            terrible than before, due, no doubt, to the fact that the enemy, perceiving that the
            Yankees were on the point of vanishing over the hill, redoubled its efforts.
          "Come back!" cried a comrade, suddenly realizing what Selvin had it
            in mind to do. "Come back, idiot! Do n't you know you'd be a
            dead man before you got half-way to him? Likely he's dead,
            anyhow."
          If Selvin heard, he did not heed, but kept steadily on. Likewise oblivious was he to
            the incessant crack, crack, crack of rifle and musket, the very next one of which might
            mean death on the wing for him. He seemed--indeed, he thought himself to be--singularly
            calm and rational in this unexpected crisis. In reality, he was living the fateful
            moments in those upper strata of utter self-abnegation to which human nature so rarely
            attains that, from the human view-point, his mind was soaring in a very ecstasy of
            unreality.
          He was so much slighter than Zack that the burden was almost too much for the fitting
            of the back to it; but he gathered the unconscious man in his arms and began a
            staggering, labored return. Time and again was he compelled to lay his burden down and
            rest, though the bullets continued to zip and whiz all about him. To his own surprise, he felt no impulse to dodge or to burrow or to run, but,
            quietly, without flinching as a stinging, singing something stirred the hair above his
            cheek, awaited a measure of returning strength before resuming his appointed task. Zack
            was bleeding profusely from several ugly wounds, but the motion served to urge his
            sunken senses back to consciousness. His mind all at once became clear and alert and he
            remembered, and, remembering, grasped the present situation in a moment.
          "Let go o' me, quick!" he cried, in a voice husky with
            emotion and suffering, but dictatorial yet. "An' you git behind that
            air hill fast's ever you kin! Jump, now! You mind me! Run! Let me down, I say,
            you're a-hurtin' me, an' you run, now! My leg's
            broke, I 'low, so I can't kick you, but I'll hammer you ter
            death with my fists if you don't mind!"
          "'T ain't ary bit o' use ter try ter pack me over
            yonder," he expostulated, a moment later, growing drowsy from loss of blood, as
            Percy, panting, laid him down for a moment. "You'll jist git kilt your
            ownse'f, an' then there'll be two o' us dead
            'stid o' one. Do n't be a idjit, Percy!"
          Percy's only reply was a little smile, almost of deprecation, like that of one
            forced to refuse a child's petition which, if granted, would work to its harm, as he stooped once more, gathered up Zack and
            proceeded on his stumbling way.
          When the remnant of the company had accomplished the protection of the hill, somebody
            told the Captain about it--about young Selvin, the company's
            "cold-foot," and about Zachariah Posey, the company's hero,
            out there together--and Sammy Goodman, the company's idol, felt for a moment as
            if the end of all had come indeed. "Why, Zack!" he cried aloud, with
            sobbing unbelief, as Selvin had cried. His thought in that first bewildered moment was
            all for Zack. Then his heart went out in quick gratitude to the laboring young fellow
            who was bringing him in. Selvin was now almost home, but it seemed as if he must fall
            from sheer exhaustion before that last little home stretch was run. With a bound, Sammy
            sprang to his assistance. A moment more, and the three were safe, the bullets whistling
            impotently over the hill.
          A handkerchief was swiftly bound around Zack's leg to retard the worst of the
            bleeding. As he was about to be carried back to the hospital, he opened his eyes. They
            rested vaguely for a moment upon his bearers, then he asked feebly to see Percy
            Selvin.
          "Where is he?" he demanded, weakly, but with insistence, as they
            hesitated. "I tell you I must speak ter him before I go back!"
          
          "He's right here, Zack," interposed Samm, quickly.
            "Do n't get so excited over nothing. Wait till you 're hit
            before you squeal old chap," he gibed, affectionately, hoping to allay
            Zack's growing and feverish excitement. Apprehension clutched him--but if it
            were so--Zack must not know--not now.
          Glancing hastily around, he observed the figure stretched upon the gound with a number
            of company men gathered around it.
          "When did it happen?" he asked them, in a hushed voice.
          "He was wounded when he came in," one of the men replied.
            "Nobody knows just when it occurred. He was game; a bullet in the
            back."
          Sammy knelt down beside the company coward.
          "How are you, Selvin?" he inquired, gently. "I reckon
            you'll soon be ready for duty, won't you? To the hospital now--but do
            n't forget to report for duty at the first possible moment--we need
            you," he rallied him, though his heart sank at the look on the pale young
            face.
          "I am done for, Captain," whispered Percy, in a voice scarcely
            audible so very fast were the sands of his life dropping--dropping--but he rallied and
            added in a stronger voice, even a majestic voice, "Do n't waste time
            on me, Captain! Take the company and silence that batt- tery before it kills any more of us!" And he who had been so afraid of death,
            and so much more afraid of being hurt, looking that solemn, mysterious visitant closely
            in the face, suffering all the hurt that the flesh can suffer, could speak thus with
            earnest self-forgetfulness now that vague, emotional fear had met and grappled with grim
            reality; and even while stifling moans of unendurable pain, he smiled, because, after
            all, he was enduring it, he could bear it, he had only been afraid that he could
            n't and afraid of the nightmare of panic that would follow his not being able
            to bear it. If one only really knew, knew the latent powers of the soul--there is
            nothing in the world one cannot bear. Sometimes, things kill you--but, strangely enough,
            you find you can bear that, too.
          "Do n't give up as easily as that, Selvin. Where would Zack be now if
            you had given him up that easily?" asked Sammy, feelingly.
            "Here's Zack now," motioning the bearers of the stretcher to
            him. "He wanted to speak to you before going to the hospital. Brace up, boy!
            You met your chane like--the man and soldier that you are. I do n't want to
            hear anything more about being done for!"
          "Captain Sammy," said Zack, "I 'low you know
            'bout Percy--what he done for me?"
          "Yes, I know, Zack."
          
          "Do you think he justified the chance you giv' him yander on the
            Osage?"
          "A thousand-fold. I have told him so, Zack."
          A pleased, triumphant smile flitted over Zack's drawn face. Good for you,
            Sammy. I knew he would all the time. I ain't much--I ain't worth
            it'--but I knew you'd be pleased 'cause you're
            Sammy, an' you an' me both b'longs ter ol' Dubois
            together."
          He had never told Captain Goodman nor the rest the half of his struggle with Percy
            Selvin's seemingly unconquerable fear, and he never did tell now, so that the
            young fellow's memory went down the years with the company's
            survivors, a beautiful and a hallowed thing, unsullied by the things which Zack never
            told.
          "Hit bad?" asked Zack, when the others had stepped aside with bowed
            heads, while Sammy made rapid mental plans for the disposition of his company somewhere
            over there to the right. Death, the war agent, does not stand respectfully while death
            goes by.
          "There is n't to be another time, Zack," came from the
            bloodless lips of the dying boy, that hint of humor again scintillating in the brown
            eyes looking so far away into the unknown.
          "I said so, did n't I?" muttered Zack, laugh- ing huskily to hide his emotion--and not understanding. "I
            always said so, an' this time I knew. I'm right sorry I kicked you
            an' talked ter you like I done. You'd orter o' lef'
            me out there--served me right. Before they pack me off ter hospital, I'd jist
            like ter hear you say you do n't hold it ag'in me. I always liked you
            a passel, sonny, even when I railed at you most."
          "Don't worry, Zack. I'd have been shot in the back, anyway,
            and for the real thing if it had n't been for you. This is better than a
            court-martial. It is much, much better as it is."
          "Why do you git so skeert in battle when you're really a braver man
            than any o' us?" asked Zack, in wonder.
          "I was n't cut out for a soldier, I guess," said Selvin,
            simply. "I'm glad I could go when the 'hants' were
            n't anywhere around. I do n't deserve it, but I am glad. Zack, when
            you see Miss Brown, will you tell her why I was shot in the back? Likely, the Captain
            will, but do you so, too, to make sure. Will you?"
          "You kin jist bet I will," said Zack, his huskiness increasing as the
            boy's increasing weakness grew more apparent even to him who loved him.
            "But I 'low you'll be up all right and tellin' her
            first your ownse'f.
          "You will be lonesome without me to take care of, won't you, for
            little while? I wonder who will march with you next time
            you march? I wonder if the war will be over when you get into Vicksburg? I wonder if
            he--the new fellow who is to march with you--will be afraid?" He was speaking
            dreamily, a little wistfully.
          "Yes, I will be very lonesome," was all poor Zack could say, his
            frame shaking with sobs.
          Sammy came up hastily and helped Selvin on the stretcher prepared for him.
          "Good-by, Zack," whispered the dying boy, as Zack was borne away.
          "Good-by, Percy, good-by, good-by."
          "You are a brave boy, Selvin," said Sammy, brokenly.
            "Remember, you must hurry to get well. Company E can't afford to lose
            men like you."
          "Thank you, Captain," a light leaping up into the closing eyes. He
            was very far away, but he had always yearned to hear words like these from his
            Captain's lips, so they carried over a great distance, and his yearning spirit
            met and heard them and, hearing, passed smilingly away.
          Leading his company up the length of the ravine, Sammy observed that there was a small
            hill or knoll opposite the redoubt where the guns that were enfilading a part of the
            Union line were located, but, in order to get behind the knoll, it would be necessary to
            traverse a space of about fifty yards open to the enemy's fire. There was no other way of obtaining the coveted position, however, and
            so the company, spreading out as in a skirmish line, raced over the distance,
            fortunately with but small loss. It was now in very good range of the battery and began
            effectively to pick off the gunners as fast as they came up, making it impossible for
            the enemy to operate the guns.
          The company was not relieved nor did it receive any further orders. With the coming of
            night, most of the old-timers experienced somewhat of the eerie feeling that had beset
            them as pickets before Pea Ridge. When the short twilight had passed, Sammy,
            apprehensive that the enemy would march out and cut them off from the army, withdrew to
            the end of the ravine and remained there until nearly daylight when he ordered the men
            to slip quietly back to their old position behind the knoll. The morning light soon
            revealed the fact that the Federal troops had withdrawn from in front of the rebel works
            during the night; but, fearing another charge, and still receiving no orders, Sammy
            remained behind the knoll until late in the aftenoon, when he received orders to come
            in.
          As the company was passing brigade headquarters on its return, it was immediately
            stopped and Sammy ordered to report to General Benton. The General complimented him
            highly upon the work he and his men had done. The words of
            unstinted commendation were sweet to the tired, heart-sick young officer who was
            thinking of the smiling soul gone, and of the friend of all his years whose life was
            wavering in the balance, and of the others out there on the hillside. Company E had paid
            very dear, but the gain in lives and of those enflading guns was inestimable, so the
            bitter price was paid without haggling. The company deserved well of its country.
          After this vain and costly attempt to carry the city by assault, the military seer
            decided to waste no more lives on such fruitless dreams of speedy capitulation, and the
            long siege began in earnest. The end was inevitable. On the Fourth Day of July, in the
            morning, as the Federal army, having replied to the rebel taunt, "First ketch
            your rabbit," by catching it, was lined up in front of the Confederate
            intrenchments, a white flag shot up away to the right as far as could be seen, then
            another, and another, and so on down the line to the end of it. The wan soldiers then
            marched out and stacked their guns. Not one cheer arose to hurt them. It spoke well for
            the great-heartedness of the men of the North. The vanquished, like them, were American
            soldiers, though mistaken, and had fought well and starved well.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXII
          SAMMY'S LAST SKIRMISH
          IN THE very act of fraternizing with the gaunt, hungry remnant of
            Pemberton's army, sharing rations with their late antagonists, swapping siege
            tales, luxuriously contemplating a long, lazy rest and an indefinite immunity from the
            sound of guns and the sight of blood, came marching orders for the major portion of the
            victorious army. Men received the news with incredulous dismay and inward protestation.
            The shock was too great and unexpected for immediate acceptance. When they became
            convinced of the legitimacy and the irrevocableness of the orders, they fell into
            clamorous rebellion; which state of mind in turn gave way to the grim silence of utter
            disgust. They were weary, weary, weary, and it was hot, hot, hot, and the days had been
            many and long and pressed full since they first put step on the rebel side of the
            Mississippi. Zack's drop-jawed amazement and incredulity were so extreme that
            Sammy could not help laughing at him, although his own disappointment was almost as
            great. Zack's wounds had proved not so serious as
            was at first feared, and he was again on duty, though he was still thin, pale, and
            emaciated from the suffering and confinement.
          "'Pears like I ain't never goin' ter git no more
            rest in this here world," was his lugubrious plaint, as he rammed several
            days' rations into his haversack with spiteful pokes and digs as if they were
            responsible for the affront. "No more 'n out o' the hospital
            than set ter hard labor diggin' trenches an' sichy, an' no
            sooner 'n we've earned one night's sleep, anyhow, than here
            we be--on the march ag'in--an' we took Jackson once. Wish ter goodness
            I'd o' let 'em sent me home ter 'cuperate when they
            wanted ter. Wish, almost, that I was where Percy is. He's restin',
            anyhow."
          There was reason in Zack's complaint, but how was it to be helped? Johnston
            had been hovering as near as he dared for many days, hoping against hope to be able to
            get assistance to Pemberton in some way. When Vicksburg capitulated, Johnston
            immediately fell back upon Jackson. Sherman was in readiness to move against him the
            very moment the surrender of the besieged city made it practicable or desirable, and was
            to be joined in the movement by both Steele and Ord and their commands. The afternoon of
            that very day, the day of the Fourth, the tired and
            heartily disgusted troops took up the trail of Johnston.
          How dusty the roads and how hot! Mississippi in midsummer! The water was an affront to
            the system which craved cooling drink, but it had to be drunk, bad as it as. The men
            were already exhausted by the long, arduous, wearisome siege. Their unaccustomed
            northern blood had fairly seethed in the languorous, debilitating southern summer, until
            it had burned up its red corpuscles and flowed, a sickly, sluggish stream, through
            clogged and heavy veins. The hot, waterless, weary, weary, and unresting pursuit of
            Johnston was almost too much for them. It was too much for many--they dropped out, never
            to march again, at least on a militant earth; and the burning July sun, having done its
            worst, mockingly refused to warm them back to life again.
          On the eleventh, Sherman was close up to the Confederate defenses and began shelling
            the city. On the night of the sixteenth, the Eighteenth Indiana, which occupied a
            position so close to the besieged city that conversation with those within would have
            been practicable, had its feelings sadly harrowed and its patience and its sleep
            annihilated by the seemingly endless strains of an all-night band concert. To the
            unprejudiced, the music would have fallen upon appreciative ears. It was beautiful, and the soft, dark, southern night was a beautiful setting.
            "Dixie," over and over again, and what melody there is in
            "Dixie," and then "The Bonnie Blue Flag," over and
            over again, and "Maryland, my Maryland," and then again
            "Dixie." "Way down South in Dixie." But to most of
            the harassed Eighteenth, the musical strains were swelling with defiance, triumph,
            pride, and flaunting insolence. With the close, still, hot dawn, came the knowledge of a
            quiet slipping away in the night under cover of the brave music of the South; and then
            Sammy knew why it had seemed to sound mournful and sad to his dreamy senses, even while
            to most, it had rung with vengeful insolence. "Dixie" had been a
            farewell, not a defiance.
          After the siege of Jackson, the troops returned to Vicksburg where at last they rested
            for a few days, those, indeed, who were not too tired to rest, and those for whom the
            coveted respite had not come too late.
          In August, that splendid Army of the Tennessee was mistakenly and under protest of its
            commanding general disintegrated, scattered hither and yon, a portion here, a portion
            there, no longer to be reckoned with as "man for man, officer for officer, the
            most perfect army ever marshaled under a flag." United, it had been the invincible power that had cleared the Mississippi and cut the
            Confederacy in two; divided, armies doing other things and which did not need it
            especially; its splendid strength as a cohesive unit dissipated.
          It fell to the lot of Carr's old division under a new commander to be
            transferred to the Department of the Gulf, and near the middle of August, it went by
            transport to New Orleans. After a few weeks spent in the quaint old Creole city, the
            division went to Brashear City and from thence Benton's Brigade made a hundred-mile raid
            up the beautiful green-banked Bayou Teehe, and inland to Opelousas. A part of Dick
            Taylor's army needed routing and it was the lot of the brigade to do the
            routing. It seemed to Sammy as if he had been suddenly transported to some other world,
            so quiet, so rich and fertile was the valley after the storm and stress of the battle
            fields of the ravished South. This, too, was the South, but what a different South!
            Union troops had never before set foot upon it. They were the first. So peaceful it was,
            after the noise and strife, so low and level, after the "set on edge"
            country around Vicksburg, so gigantic the forest growth and so tropical the vegetation,
            so quaint and, withal, so cultured and refined the dwellers within it--all French,
            descendants of those Acadians so ruthlessly expelled from
            their peaceful homes and pursuits on English soil only to take root, to thrive and to
            blossom in a more generous soil, a fairer clime--that it was little wonder it seemed a
            foreign shore.
          It seemed ruthless and wanton to destroy property in this beautiful, alluvial, peaceful
            valley, but war is a desecration at best, and, perhaps, if there had been more of such
            destruction in the beginning, there had been, in the end, less waste of blood, surely
            more precious than many lands or houses. Especially was it the duty of Benton's
            Brigade on this raid to destroy the sugar and mills on the big plantations in order to
            further cripple the source of supplies for the rebel armies and thus hasten the
            inevitable end.
          Passing an extensive sugar plantation one day, the army was astonished at the great
            number of slaves who came crowding about the road to watch the troops pass by. There
            nust have been five hundred of them, all told, field hands and house servants together,
            of all ages and descriptions, varying in color from coal black to the fairest blonde.
            One girl in the very midst of the throng of curious, gaping, barefooted spectators
            attracted Sammy's notice by what he at first deemed the unusualness of her
            association upon terms of such close intimacy with the colored multitude. With her blue
            eyes, brown hair, and beautiful fair skin, she did seem
            oddly out of place. It was not until he noted her short, one-piece garment of coarse
            sacking, her bare feet, and her air of oneness with the rest--her badge of
            servitude--that he understood.
          "What shame!" he muttered, under his breath.
          The band struck up "John Brown's Body," and the darlkies
            suddenly went wild. Gone was their seemingly apathetic staring. It must be remembered
            that these negroes had never before seen Union troops. They supposedly had never heard
            Union songs. Where had been their opportunity? And yet, at the first martial strains,
            faces lit up, eyes danced, and bodies swayed to the rhythm, while feet fairly spoke the
            music of the march.
          "Why, do you know that tune?" asked the soldiers, in surprise.
          "Yes, yes, yes, we does, we does, bress de Lawd!" cried several, and
            others took up the enraptured avowal, eagerly, as if something restraining had given
            away and it was a relief to let the pent up flood leap out at last. There was a
            freemasonry existing between the slaves of the South that their masters wotted not of,
            and the music of, freedom carried far.
          Suddenly, an old woman stepped majestically forward and took her stand in front of the
            others of her kind in bondage. She was tall and not enfeebled despite her many years and her thankless toil in the sugar cane. Her hair
            was as white as snow and the seamed, strong face beneath it, black as ebony. She seemed
            a sybil, an inspired prophetess, as she raised her wrinkled hands to the sky and cried
            aloud, while her eyes, fixed upon things unseen of mortal man, seemed to be reading out
            of heaven that which her tongue gave utterance to. It was evident that her companions
            held her in the utmost respect and awe by the way they gave place to her and the
            reverence with which they listened to her solemn sentences.
          "Ah see'd yo' in de clouds--Ah see'd yo'
            wif yo' unifawms on--Ah knowed yo'd come--Ah knowed yo'd
            come--Ah been lookin' fo' yo' long, long time, but Ah knowed
            yo'd come--fo' Ah see'd yo' in de cloud--Ah
            see'd yo' unifawms--an' Ah knowed yo' was
            er-comin'--bress de Lawd, oh my soul!"
          It was with a solemn, subdued feeling that the army passed on after this prophetic
            greeting, so earnest so believing and so inspired had the ancient negress been. The
            engagement with Taylor's detachment, while severe, was, for the most part, with
            cavalry and the fighting for the Eighteenth proved to be nothing at all. But, the rebels
            on the run and the homeward movement instituted, Company E was detailed to act as rear-guard and escort the wagon train; and, as
            the troops did not see fit to wait, they soon distanced the crawling wagons and passed
            out of sight. It proved an anxious day for Sammy. The rebels were not so far behind but
            that a sudden sortie was entirely within the realm of possibilities, and they were so
            many that his company would be powerless to offer much resistance. However, no such
            expected event came to pass and no harm befell the worn little company, now a mere
            handful as compared with the full roll mustered in at Indianapolis.
          It was on this return that the flocks of colored people who had before crowded down to
            stare now came crowding down to attach themselves to the procession. As the brigade
            passed the larger plantations, hundreds of men and women with a goodly sprinkling of
            "pickaninnies" presented themselves squarely in the road and were not
            to be denied. Their baggage in most cases was ludicrous in the extreme--a conglomerate
            mass of anything and everything dearest to their starved hearts. One old woman carried a
            feather tick on her head; another nicely balanced on her head a bag containing a half
            bushel or so of pecans. At one plantation, Sammy was met by a slight, worn, dignified,
            middle-aged woman who still bore traces of a once unusual beauty and who spoke English
            rather well, though the French inflection was noticeable.
            She was confronted by a large, handsome, neatly-gowned negress who stood stolidly before
            her, indifferently making more secure the knot of a big blue bandana handkerchief which
            bound her possessions.
          "You will make her to stay, Sir, you will insist," the little worn
            mistress was entreating, her dignity almost at the breaking point at the exigencies of
            her situation. "The cruel conscript--you know--I am all alone. Marie--she have
            been with me always. She was born this house--she have everything--I cannot do all,
            alone. The rest have left me--all the field hands, all the house servants--all but
            Marie, my own maid--what shall I do if she go? And yet she will go!" She wrung
            her white, white hands despairingly. "The Commandant--he will insist that she
            remain."
          "I am sorry, Madam," replied Sammy, gently, "but I have no
            authority over her. She must do as--seems best to her. If Marie will stay for a little
            while, it will not be long." He looked at the negro woman gravely,
            questioningly, but she shook her head mutely. The dream of her race was come true and
            she must go to meet her destiny or it might pass her by. The last thing Sammy saw as he
            turned in the late sunlight for a last glimpse of a crumbling institution, was the slight, aristocratic figure of the worn but beautiful
            mistress, standing very still on the wide, green, neglected lawn, head drooping ever so
            slightly, a deserted mansion-house behind her, with night coming on, and she was
            alone.
          The raiders met Lawler's Brigade at New Iberia, coming up the bayou in
            transports as reinforcements, superfluous, indeed, but Banks had been afraid.
          The army returned to Berwick on the bay and from that point took ship and steamed down
            to the mouth of the Rio Grande, and from thence along the coast to Matanzas Island. This
            island is long and narrow and at the lower end was a rebel fort with a garrison of about
            one hundred and fifty men. It was the Colonel of the Eighteenth's idea to land
            the troops here at the upper end, march down to the fort and take it from the land side;
            but he decided first to go ashore himself with his adjutant and determine the
            practicability of landing the troops at this point, and Sammy promptly volunteered to
            accompany him, also. Sammy had an intense longing for the land. He was undergoing his
            first experience with seasickness and he did n't like it. Malarial or typhoid
            was nothing in comparison. White, drawn, limp, and sick, sick, sick, the inspiration to
            proffer his services to the colonel flared up in his nauseated soul like a beacon light,
            and he never admired Colonel Washburn more than when that
            officer briefly accepted his company.
          In the early morning, the troops marched down on the opposite side of the island, and,
            as the colonel had hoped and counted upon, the attention of the garrison was held by two
            battleships out in the Gulf. Approaching from the land side, the Federals were
            unnoticed, and they had captured the pickets and were climbing into the fort before the
            garrison was aware of their presence. It surrendered immediately--there was nothing else
            to do--but it is safe to assume that a more disgusted bunch of defenders never laid down
            arms.
          Following this bloodless victory, the Union troops were ferried across Matanzas Pass to
            St. Joseph's Island. They marched up the island forty miles and approached the
            pass which is the entrance to Mastagorda Bay from the Gulf side. Here was Fort
            Esperanza, commanding the pass, a very strong fortification with seven large guns and a
            garrison of eight hundred men. It was a large, triangular-shaped fortification with the
            side of the triangle which faced the pass bristling with the seven guns which bore upon
            the water, sweeping it and the beach between with frowning completeness. A lighthouse on
            the Gulf side, just out of range of the fort guns, marked the boundary of the safety
            zone for the Federal troops. They early discovered that to
            attempt to proceed farther along the beach was to bring down the guns of the fort upon
            them.
          Before daylight upon an early morning in December, the Eighteenth was stealthily sent
            north on the land side of the fort to reconnoiter and to ascertain if it would not be
            possible to find a favorable location for the planting of a battery to shell the fort
            from the rear. Finding a slight elevation which promised well for the success of the
            undertaking, the regiment was halted while Sammy was ordered to advance with his company
            yet farther toward the spot where the enemy was supposed to be, and to ascertain the
            exact rebel position in regard to the proposed site for the battery. A heavy fog rolled
            in from the sea and settled over the island just before day broke. It rendered the
            darkness of the dark hour preceding the dawn so dense that it seemed hard to breathe and
            doubled the hazard of the scouting party, as the rebel pickets were apt to be run up
            against without the slightest warning, as the thick fog rendered void all outline and
            all sense of distance.
          Sammy deployed the company and then advanced in a skirmish line, stealthily but
            steadily, toward--fate. Shortly after daybreak, the fog lifted somewhat, and the rebel
            pickets stepped out of the gloom. A quick, uncontrollable shiver passed over Sammy. The dawn was so chill and damp, so dreary and
            lonely, and the end was so near; for not only had the pickets emerged from the
            gloom--there was the big, frowning fort as well, looming up out of the lifting mists
            closer than any one had ever dreamed. But he recovered instantly, for it all depended
            upo him, upon Sammy Goodman of Dubois County, Indiana. And as it had done so many times
            before, the sense of responsibility braced him. His order to fire and charge the picket
            line was as clear and ringing as ever.
          "Drive 'em in, boys, drive 'em in," he yelled.
          The pickets returned the fire with stubborn tenacity but retreated steadily toward the
            protection of the fort. The sound of the skirmish had attracted the attention of the
            rebel garrison and it now opened fire, under cover of which the pickets made good their
            entrance to safety--not all, however, for more than one lay wrapped in the winding sheet
            of the fog which still clung to the ground. But with the return of the pickets, the
            garrison did not cease firing and Company E was subjected to a terrible fusillade before
            it withdrew.
          It was Zack who saw Sammy fall. He had been haunted, always, by this very dread. He
            cast aside his rifle, everything he carried, and went to Sammy. He made no outcry. He
            was strangely calm, though he thought his friend was dead.
            But his face was much, much chalkier than was Sammy's own, lying white and
            still upon the ground.
          "I 'low I 'II have ter pack him home after
            all--'stid o' him me. I wish 't it had been the other way. I
            always wished it, but wishin' do n't seem ter count in this here
            world, he thought, dumbly.
          They carried him out of range of the still cracking rifles, the boys of his company,
            and then they bore him back to the waiting regiment.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER XXIII
          THE OLD STUMP
          "WHAT'S the matter, Sammy?"
          Sammy raised his head from his arms which were resting on the gate post and beheld a
            winsome girl-woman standing before him in the road. She had been tripping past but
            paused to exchange a word of greeting with the returned neighborhood hero, who was also
            Zack's best friend.
          "Matter enough, Susie," said Sammy, gloomily.
          "I hope you won't stay mad at things long," said Susie,
            artlessly. "'Pears like a body ain't got no need ter git mad
            on sich a sweet day."
          "Evil is evil, little Susie, and one can't put it off just because
            the weather is fair. It has to be met some time, better now and have it over and done
            with."
          "Mebbe not," replied Susie, sagely. "If you save it up for a
            rainy day, I 'low it might git tired o' waitin' an'
            go 'round. What's pesterin' you, Sammy? You look like
            you'd orter be in the hospital yit. You 're as saller as a summer
            squash."
          
          "You, at least, have altogether recovered from your wounds. You are positively
            blooming today," replied Sammy, heartily, and she was. Her sunbonnet trailed
            down her bak, held from completely slipping into the dust of the road by loosely knotted
            pink strings. Th warm sun of the spring day made her pretty brown hair to curl
            bewitchingly over her forehead, and her cheeks were as pink as the cluster of peach
            blossoms hanging over the fence.
          "I--I--been up ter Mis' Posey's ter deliver a
            message," said Susie, blushing and dimpling, "an' I walked
            'cause pap was usin' the team, an' it makes me
            warm," thus she explained her blushes, blushing the more in the explanation.
            "But that ain't tellin' what's pesterin'
            you, Captain Sammy. You heard bad news from anybody?"
          "Very bad news. The worst, I think, that I could possibly hear. The doctor has
            been here this morning, Susie. He said that I--am not fit enough to go back to my
            company," said Sammy, soberly.
          "Why, Sammy! Never?"
          "Never. Not for a year, anyway, and then it will be too late. He said I might
            have gotten the best of the bullet wound if it had not been for the exhaustion preceding
            it. The typhoid and the marches, I have to thank for that, I reckon. I do n't just see the use of my getting well at all--if I
            can't go back. What is the use?"
          He thought he had conquered his rebellion. He had fought it out up in the seclusion of
            the old attic where he and Zack had watched for ghosts and planned so many
            'coon hunts and other backwoods amusements. It had taken most of the morning to
            get this grip on himself. The struggle had been so bitter--so bitter. It had brought
            tears--hot, man's tears--it had exhausted him; but the storm was spent now. He
            thought he had conquered. But his voice still vibrated with the sting of his protesting
            soul.
          It was just such another day as the one on which he had come home on leave of absence a
            year ago. What high hopes were thrilling him then! Well, he had survived Vicksburg
            for--this! Was it worth while? Company E, the regiment, the old Eighteenth, would go on
            to the dearly bought but glorious end, while he, he, Sammy Goodman, loafed around with
            the women and children! It would have been better--far better--to have fallen there on
            the Vicksburg slopes, or if the aim of that Fort Esperanza rebel had been a little
            truer)! He had paved the way for the locating of the battery. It was through him and his
            that the battery had been able to get in behind and shell that important and menacing
            rebel stronghold on St. Joseph's Island so effec- tively that it fell, and the passes threatened Federal transports and gunboats no
            more. If he could have died then, in preparing the way for that splendid assault--which
            took place while he lay unconscious in the field hospital--his life would have gone out
            in honor.
          He shook himself savagely free from these mawkish and unwholesome musings, and smiled
            at a friendly little squirrel running along the top rail of the fence in close proximity
            to where Sammy was leaning, while several of the less venturesome of his kind scampered
            up the tree trunks and chattered in the leafy boughs. Besides, the women did not loaf.
            Theirs was the hardest part of all. They must still rear the children and maintain their
            homes; they must also plough and plant and reap. They must be two-bodied and two-souled.
            They must be women and they must be men. No, the women of the war were not loafers. He
            could help Mollie till the war was over, perhaps then he might go out into the world
            again. He would be content until then.
          The air was heavily laden with the fragrance of blossoming fruit trees, apple and
            peach, and vibrated with the hum of bees hovering over the blossoms, and flashed with
            gay butterflies darting hither and yon or drowsily floating on wide-spread wing. Fussy,
            important-looking hens were scratching for their downy
            chicks in the barnyard, clucking incessantly, and the dreamy suggestion of their anxious
            maternal solicitude brought back to Sammy the memory of that day when he thought he was
            at home because of the old familiar sounds, and awoke to find Sara Brown at his bedside.
            No Company E--no Sara Brown--well, men had lived without either!
          "I 'most wish Zack would git wounded," said Susie,
            plaintively. "Then mebbe they'd send him home ter git strong,
            an' mebbe it would take him a year ter do it in. My, I do
            wish it--almost."
          "He was wounded, you know, Susie, at Vicksburg," said Sammy, gently,
            "but he would n't come home. He left the hospital only to report for
            duty again. I would change places with him if I could--oh, if I only could. That would
            not content Zack, though. He is a good soldier, Susie, and the best man I ever knew. You
            must love him very much to make up."
          "Make up for what, Sammy?" asked the girl, in innocent wonder.
          "Oh, for lots of things--like playing ghost on him, for instance--but
            especially for his being such an altogether fine fellow," replied Sammy, a
            little sadly, recollecting that, for Zack's sake if for no other reason, he
            must not say, "to make up for being blood kin to Hank Halstead." That was his own bitterness and must be borne
            alone--and conquered--for Zack's sake. "I see you have a letter from
            him. How is the old rascal?"
          "Right pert, he says, but how did you know it was from Zack?"
            inquired the puzzled Susie.
          "Several things told me, your radiant face, your errand, and the gorgeous
            picture on the let ter paper."
          "I do n't care," declared Susie, poutingly,
            "he's the best boy in the world, if you air a-laughin' at
            him."
          "I'm not laughing at him, Susie. No one knows Zack better than I do,
            I think," said Sammy, gravely. "I only wish that he were
            here--safe--with you, and that I could take his place."
          "You have n't got a girl have you, Sammy?" asked Susie,
            dreamily. "I hain't hearn tell o' any lately, so I
            'low you do n't know how 'tis ter a girl ter be
            a-waitin' for you ter come home from the war."
          "I love a irl, Susie, but she is n't mine, and she is n't
            waiting for me to come home from the war."
          "Your old sweetheart 's a-comin' back, did you know that?
            Mary Ann Hamilton an' her pap's a comin' back ter Dubois
            County ter live. They moved 'wy out West. You used ter set a heap o' store by Mary Ann. Mebbe she'll do for a stiddy
            when she gits back. I hain't never hearn tell o' her gittin'
            married yit. They say she's right purty."
          Sammy shook his head, smiling a little sadly at Susie's ingenuous suggestion
            of hope for the future as a consolation for his present despondent state of
            bachelorhood. Childish sweethearts were all very well--for children. Susie, who was
            really only a child yet and who had never had sweetheart but Zack, could not know how a
            man could love the one woman whom he had met out in the realities of the world and away
            from the glamour of childhood.
          And then Susie said good-by and went her homeward way down the shaded yellow road,
            humming a little tune whose refrain was love, love, love.
          Again, after dinner, Sammy wandered over to the woodsy nook on Crooked Creek behind the
            old schoolhouse, and again he sat down upon the old stump and rested his chin on his
            hand. It was not the first time he had wandered there since that day when Sara Brown had
            surprised him a year ago. Had he really seen her then, or was it all dream? Had he seen
            vision? Had he, in very truth, taken to seeing ghosts as did his neighbors? Perhaps she
            was a dryad after all and would come slipping out of some tree trunk if he waited long enough. It had been the very first place to which
            he had come when he had been strong enough to leave his room. He cherished a wild,
            unreasonable hope that she would come to him again, here. Many times, sitting there in
            the soft, subdued light of the mid-afternoon forest, with spots of yellow sunshine
            flecking the murmuring stream, the dreamy, drowsy whir of tiny winged creatures in his
            ears--bees and butterflies and "darning needles"--he fancied he heard
            her light footstep coming, coming, coming, scarcely snapping a fallen twig or crushing a
            dogwood blossom, so light it was, and yet when two soft hands were placed over his eyes,
            he had heard no slightest sound of anyone's approaching. He was not very much
            surprised, however. He had so longed for it--had more than half expected it, and,
            moreover, his senses were steeped in the dreamy unreality of the imagination where all
            things happen. But just to make sure that flesh and blood blindfolded him, and not a
            memory or a wood-nymph, he put up his own hands, as he said, a lilt of spring in his
            voice:
          "You are Sara Brown!"
          "Wrong. It is--Mary Ann. Have you forgotten me, Sammy?" So low was
            the answer, it seemed a breath of wind might blow it away. It will be remembered that
            Mary Ann, as a child, was always bashful.
          
          Sammy did not rise to his feet immediately. He had first to conquer the ache in his
            heart before greeting Mary Ann. How very many things he had to conquer of late, and the
            world of a man is not so easy to conquer as the world of a boy. When he did rise, grave,
            war-worn, sad, he was still the same friendly, self-confident, condescending, protecting
            Sammy who had escorted Mary Ann through the gloomy, ghost-haunted, imagination-peopled,
            panther-menaced forest of long ago--a little less condescending, perhaps, a little less
            self-confident, a little less wise--war gives much, and it also takes away. And there
            was Sara Brown laughing at him as little Mary Ann had never dared to laugh in those old
            days. It was not until then that he knew.
          Stiller than it had ever seemed before was the summer forest while he held her close.
            It was as if it held its breath for fear of disturbing the lovers.
          "But why, why, did n't you tell me?" was Sammy's
            puzzled plaint.
          "I do n't know," said Mary Ann, shaking her head as if her
            waywardness and willfulness were past understanding. "Just because, I 'low. I think maybe, however, that it was because you did
            n't know me, Sammy. It hurt. I knew you."
          "Oh, yes," he assented, loftily, but kissing the roguish face,
            "How could you help it when I bawled out my
            presence in such important tones through your barred door?"
          "Remember how young you were, Sammy," she said, mischievously, and
            then added, with conviction, "I should have known you anywhere, if you had
            never said a word."
          "But why so hard on me? Women change lot more than men, and we thought you had
            moved 'way out West. Come to think of it, Missouri is 'way out West to
            us Dubois County folks, but somehow I had it in my head that it was Dakota or somewhere
            in the really West. And Zack did n't know you, nor Herbert, nor Hank
            Halsted."
          "But I did n't care anything about whether they knew me or not. We
            really were going under the name of Brown while we were in Missouri. After leaving
            Indiana we went to Illinois and bought a farm. Shortly before you saw me in Missouri we
            sold the farm, and on the day of the sale one half of the purchase price was paid to my
            father in one of the stores in the little town near our home. There was no one present
            except the storekeeper, my father and the man purchasing and a man who had only been in
            the neighborhood a few weeks. After the man who had bought our farm went out, my father
            carelessly laid his pocketbook on the counter and went down farther into the store to
            look at some goods. When he came back for his pocketbook
            it was not there, neither was the stranger. Of course he had the man arrested but none
            of the money was found on him and there was not evidence enough to convict him. Later
            the man moved to Missouri and bought a farm. Father shaved off his beard and changed his
            style of clothing and his name and we rented a farm next to the one this man had bought,
            hoping we might learn something that would prove that he took our money. I do
            n't think he recognized my father for they had never met before that time in
            the store, but during the short time we were there we were not able to get any hint as
            to whether he took the money or not. If the Guerrillas had left us alone I think we
            might have eventually found out something. One of the reasons why I did n't
            make myself known to you was because we were so poor on account of our loss, and I was
            so shabbily dressed, I was ashamed to let my old schoolmate know who I
            was."
          "Will you marry me, Mary Ann?"
          She nodded, happily, then whispered. "And now you know why Sara Brown would
            n't marry you. She so wanted you to marry Mary Ann."
          His heart leaped within him, but there was still one more thing to say.
          "It was a costly campaign, Vicksburg, and a bitter. It was bloody, bloody,
            bloody. Do n't you think Sara Brown might have
            told me then for fear I might never know?"
          She came close, close to him. The brown eyes were full of tears that did not fall.
          "That is why I came to tell you now. Oh, Sammy, the agony, the agony, that I
            let you go--like that--and for no better reason than that I wanted you to know me first.
            For I loved you, Sammy, when I was only little backwoods Mary Ann, and I so wanted you
            to remember me. I tried to make you know me here--that day when it stormed. Do
            n't you remember how I looked at you? And when you would not, I said to myself
            that you should never know through me. I would never tell you. But I came to tell you. I
            could not bear the agony. What if you had died! It is my penance--to come to you without
            the asking. You did n't ask Mary Ann, you know. Forgive me, Sammy, and love me,
            only love me, and I care not whether you marry Mary Ann or Sara Brown."
        
      
    
  
