
     ----CITATION---- 
        Greenwood, Alice D. O. (Alice Davis Odekirk),
                        1851-1936. Husks and Nubbins:electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3922
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    HUSKS AND NUBBINS.
                
                BY ALICE D. O. GREENWOOD.
                
                
                    CONCORD, N. H.:
                    The Rumford Press.
                    1899.
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1899, BY ALICE D. O. GREENWOOD.
            
            
            
                
                    HON. O. P. DAVIS.
                
                
            
            
            
                DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF MY FATHER, HON.
                    OLIVER P. DAVIS, OF VERMILLION CO., INDIANA.
            
            
            
                PREFACE.
                Having a natural predilection for the corn-fields, being "born and
                    brought up" on their borders, and by virtue of that fact able to
                    discriminate between a perfect ear and one that is immature, and with an eye to
                    the "eternal fitness of things," I have, after carefully
                    comparing this little volume with others more pretentious, decided upon its
                    name, sincerely regretting the superabundance of husks, and the absence of
                    perfect grain. In order to place it within reach of those upon whom (as upon
                    myself) Fate, in her distribution of prizes, has bestowed neither
                    Aladdin's lamp nor the "goose that lays the golden
                    egg," it is bound in this simple fashion, with a hope that it may find
                    its way to humble firesides, where we ourselves, forgetting for the time the
                    strife and turmoil of the busy world outside, would gladly bask once more in the
                    sunshine of the smiles of "the folks we used to know."
            
            
            
                
                    "Through the sashless winders The mournful wind is
                        signin'."
                
                
            
        
        
            
            
                HUSKS AND NUBBINS.
                
                    DOWN ON THE WABASH.
                    
                        Down on the Wabash! Lawzy don't I mind it?
                        Wasn't it a pretty place back in Sixty-two?
                        Guess there want no prettier, leastways I can't find it,
                        'Fore them iron hosses come a snortin'
                            through.
                    
                    
                        Used to be so quiet, an' so sorter peaceful,
                        Nothin' broke the silence, but the wind among the
                            corn,
                        Jist a sobbin' low, like the voice of lovers
                            partin',
                        Down on the Wabash, the place where I was born.
                    
                    
                        Down on the Wabash the sycamores and willers
                        Bowed an' waved an' nodded at the water as
                            it passed.
                        There I've sot for hours a dreamin'; jist sorter
                            buildin' castles
                        An' a thinkin' 'bout the future,
                            in the shadders that they cast.
                    
                    
                        It 's powerful curious, ain't it? How our
                            tho'ts 'll wander back'ard
                        An' we 'll clean forgit the present, when
                            we think of what has bin,
                        
                        An' altho' we're gray and wrinkled,
                            we're no longer men an' women,
                        Fur we 've traveled back to childhood, an'
                            are boys an' girls agin.
                    
                    
                        The old brick house seems standin', an' all around
                            about it,
                        As my tho'ts go wanderin'
                            back'ard, is familyer an' the same,
                        The cedars at the doorway, the ferry at the landin',
                        Peaceful jist as Eden was afore the sarpent came.
                    
                    
                        Now I shet my eyes it's Summer! the bumble bee is
                            hummin'
                        An' gatherin' loads of honey from the
                            blossoms 'mongst the corn.
                        I can see the crows fly over, I can hear a partridge
                            drummin',
                        An', mellered by the distance, a fur-off
                            dinner-horn.
                    
                    
                        Then the days they soon git shorter. It's comin' frosty
                            weather,
                        The blades on all the cornstalks are sorter turning'
                            brown;
                        I hear the menfolks talkin', they 'low 't will
                            do to gether,
                        Then the rattle of the wagon across the frozen
                            groun'.
                    
                    
                    
                        The sparks fly up the chimbly, the shadders dance an'
                            flicker,
                        The smoke goes soarin' up'ard an'
                            floats off in purple rings.
                        The girls out in the kitchen poke each other's ribs an'
                            snicker,
                        It's evenin' an' Ham Hollingsworth
                            tunes up his fiddle-strings.
                    
                    
                        Ah! the sound of that old fiddle thro' my memory is
                            ringin',
                        An' I hear the noisy footsteps keepin' time
                            upon the floor.
                        An' 'round that dear old hearthstone my heart-strings
                            still are clingin',
                        Tho' the firelight an' the dancers are gone
                            for-evermore.
                    
                    
                        An' through the cashless winders the mournful wind is
                            sighin',
                        A lonesome owl is hootin' in the old dead ellum
                            tree;
                        The foxes dig their holes, an' at night the bats go
                            flyin'
                        In an' out among the ruins where the old home use to
                            be.
                    
                    
                        But the same old yeller moonlight sparkles out there on the river,
                        An' smiles the same, an' beckons, as it
                            dances on the wave,
                        
                        The same old hills behind it, the same old sky bends over,
                        But the homestead is a ghost now, an' silent as the
                            grave.
                    
                
                
                    WAITING.
                    
                        Yes, Jennie, your uncle Ephraim's gone.
                        He was ailin' for weeks you know,
                        But somehow it allers seemed to me
                        That I'd be the first to go.
                    
                    
                        An' I believe he kinder thought so, too,
                        For I remember a hearin' him say,
                        How lonesome 't would be in the old house
                        When I should be took away.
                    
                    
                        An' I'd allers had a hope, Jennie,
                        That when it come to the worst,
                        An' Ephraim an' me was parted,
                        That the Lord would call me first.
                    
                    
                        I know 'twas a selfish feelin' child,
                        Selfish, an' therefore wrong,
                        But I thought I could n't live alone,
                        I had lived with him so long.
                    
                    
                        I had lived with him so long, Jennie,
                        'Twill be threescore years come May,
                        Since I crossed that threshold as his bride,
                        Upon our weddin' day.
                    
                    
                    
                        We were married at the old home place,
                        The red house on the hill.
                        You can see it from that winder there,
                        For it is standin' still.
                    
                    
                        Ah! the weddin's they had in them days;
                        Dear me! how times do change.
                        All these new-fangled notions
                        Seem to me so very strange.
                    
                    
                        No printed invitations then;
                        No presents like they have now.
                        Mother gave us a feather bed,
                        An' father a brindle cow.
                    
                    
                        An' a few of the neighbors jist drapped in
                        When Ephraim an' me was wed,
                        For they wanted to see the "knot tied"
                        An' wish us joy, they said.
                    
                    
                        There was Cousin Susan an' her man,
                        Tabitha an' Abram Lee,
                        Father an' mother an' Jonathan,
                        An' they're all gone now but me.
                    
                    
                        Yes, they 're all gone now but me, Jennie,
                        An' I ain't got long to stay,
                        But the good Lord knows I'm willin'
                        He should call me any day.
                    
                    
                    
                        Why do you look so strange, child,
                        An' open your brown eyes so?
                        Do you think if they all had left you
                        That you would be loth to go?
                    
                    
                        Your life is jist in its mornin'
                        An' all looks fair an' bright,
                        But mine is nearin' its close, child,
                        An' reaches into the night.
                    
                    
                        So I'm sittin' with folded hands, dear,
                        I've nothing to do but wait,
                        For the Father above to call me
                        An' open the "Pearly Gate.'
                    
                
                
                    PULLIN' UP STAKES.
                    
                        No use your tryin' to console me,
                        It 's bound to go hard with me, Jane.
                        Yes, yes, I 'spose it 's His will
                        An' I had n't orter complain.
                    
                    
                        But think of the years we 've lived here--
                        Thirty, or nigh about,
                        An' now to be pullin' up stakes
                        Is like tearin' your eye-teeth out.
                    
                    
                        Who'd ever a thought when Jonathan
                        Went s'curity for Hiram Sears
                        That that scratch of the pen would drive us
                        From the home we had had for years.
                    
                    
                    
                        Every foot on it paid for,
                        An' "some for a rainy day."
                        An' then to think our hard earnin's
                        Should be thus trifled away.
                    
                    
                        Still I ain't a-blamin' your uncle.
                        He 's too chicken-hearted though,
                        An' when Hiram axed fur his name
                        He had n't the spunk to say no.
                    
                    
                        But up an' signed the paper
                        That 's cheated us out of the place,
                        An' now when we 're up'ards of sixty,
                        We've agin got the world to face.
                    
                    
                        "What'll we do in Kansas?"
                        Bless you that 's more 'n I know,
                        But there 's nothin' left fur us here
                        An' to-morrow we 've got to go.
                    
                    
                        I've jist finished packin' our traps
                        (There 's precious few on 'em left),
                        We never had more 'n we needed;
                        But of them they have taken the heft.
                    
                    
                        There's only my clothes an' Jonathan's,
                        Some books an' a picter or two,
                        The cradle our babies was rocked in,
                        An' this chair a present from you.
                    
                    
                    
                        Oh! I tell you we never know
                        What a blessin' some things is, Jane,
                        Until we have done an' lost 'em
                        An' then we can see it plain.
                    
                    
                        Why it don't seem more'n a fortnight
                        Sence me an' your Uncle John
                        Was a talkin' of buildin' a new house,
                        An' now the old one 's gone.
                    
                    
                        An' it never looked half so handy
                        An' so much like home afore
                        As the day them lawyers told us
                        That it was n't ourn no more.
                    
                    
                        Oh! I wish that thrush in the orchard
                        Would cease a singin' his lay.
                        I used to be glad to hear him,
                        But somehow I ain't to-day.
                    
                    
                        I mind when we planted that orchard,
                        Your uncle John an' me,
                        An' how he spaded the dirt in,
                        While I was a holdin' the tree.
                    
                    
                        An' we sot out them maples yonder
                        When we first moved on to the place.
                        You would n't believe how thrifty they was,
                        Why! they fairly seemed runnin' a race,
                    
                    
                    
                        "Warner river, don't you mind, How it used to curve and
                            wind?"
                    
                    
                    
                        'To see which could grow the fastest;
                        An' John, he would laugh an' say,
                        "We 'll set in the shade of them trees, wife,
                        When we 're both on us old an'
                            gray."
                    
                    
                        Don't caution me not to weep, child,
                        You need n't have no fears,
                        For a sorrow that's deep as mine, Jane,
                        Is n't the sort for tears.
                    
                    
                        Yes, we 'll write as soon as we 're settled,
                        An' know what we 're goin' to
                            do.
                        An', Jane, you must n't forgit us,
                        We'll be longin' to hear from you.
                    
                    
                        An' I hope from my very heart, child,
                        For yourn an' William's sakes,
                        That you'll never know at sixty
                        What 't is to pull up stakes.
                    
                
                
                    'MONGST THE HILLS OF MERRIMACK.
                    
                        'Mongst the hills of Merrimack'!
                        Wish to heaven I was back.
                        Shet my eyes an' there they be
                        Jist as plain as A, B, C.
                        Kearsarge, the Old Minks, too,
                        See 'em both from Waterloo,
                        
                        Waterloo beneath the hill,
                        Settin' there so calm an' still
                        With its houses, clean an' white
                        Smilin' at you, day an' night,
                        An' the river, chucklin' low,
                        As it did long years ago
                        When I trudged to school an' back,
                        'Mongst the hills of Merrimack.
                    
                    
                        Warner river! Do n't you mind
                        How it use to curve an' wind?
                        How it twisted in an' out
                        'Mong the rocks where speckled trout
                        Played at "hide an' seek," you know,
                        Or that is, we called it so.
                        'T want no trick to ketch a mess
                        Them days, in an hour or less.
                        Ah! my old mouth waters still,
                        An' I s'pose it allers will,
                        When my thoughts go wand'rin' back,
                        'Mongst the hills of Merrimack.
                    
                    
                        'Pears to me the sun shone brighter,
                        Somehow, too, the snow looked whiter.
                        An' the sky was twicet as blue,
                        An' the days was shorter, too.
                        Then the girls were so much neater,
                        So much prettier an' completer,
                        So much truer, too, some way,
                        Than the girls are now-a-day.
                        
                        
                            " I e'en hear the plash of your oar in the
                                water."
                        
                        
                        Speakin' of the girls, an' then
                        How it all comes back again--
                        The old schoolhouse down the road,
                        'Fore it birch an' pine trees growd,
                        There 's the stone wall at the back,
                        'Mongst the hills of Merrimack.
                    
                    
                        'Taint no use to hanker, though,
                        Arter things that's gone, you know.
                        But if I could jist slip in
                        To the old home once agin,
                        When the lilacs, all abloom,
                        Scent the little attic room;
                        If I could wake up, and find All these years I've left
                            behind,
                        Was a dream, a dream ! then I
                        Would be ready, most, to die.
                        Ah ! well, if I'm laid to rest,
                        On these prairies of the West,
                        Hope my soul may wander back,
                        'Mongst the hills of Merrimack.
                    
                
                
                    THAT PICTURE YOU SENT ME.
                    
                        Many thanks my old friend, for that picture you sent me.
                        That picture so like you in days that are fled,
                        That before me arises, bright scenes that have vanished,
                        And beautiful visions of joys that are dead.
                    
                    
                    
                        Ah! plainly I see the blue hills of New Hampshire,
                        And wander again o'er their summits at will,
                        Whilst through the enchantment that's "lent by the
                            distance,"
                        Her rugged old mountains seem lovelier still.
                    
                    
                        And I hear once again, the song of her rivers
                        As ceaselessly onward their bright waters flow,
                        And we cast flower and leaf on their fair dimpled bosoms,
                        As we did in that ' sweet summer time long
                            ago."
                    
                    
                        And I e'en hear the plash of your oar in the water;
                        The pond with its mantle of lilies I see,
                        Its sweet liquid coolness encircles my fingers,
                        And the breath of its flowers is again borne to me.
                    
                    
                        And the bridge where we stood on that bright summer morning.
                        How it rained! You remember the evening before?
                        And the villagers fearing a loss by a freshet,
                        Stood anxiously watching the brook from the shore.
                    
                    
                        Ah ! little we reeked if its waters were rising
                        As on o'er the hilltops we wandered away.
                        Have you forgotten the silent old homestead
                        Whose halls were deserted and walls were so gray?
                    
                    
                    
                        The silent old homestead ! hard by it the meadow
                        Through which we passed on to the brow of the hill,
                        Then climbed to the top of a huge granite boulder.
                        Beneath lay the village so peaceful and still.
                    
                    
                        Nor have I forgotten our ride o'er Mount Loverell,
                        Where we saw the old bee hunter plying his craft;
                        Nor how, when you asked if he caged as he caught them,
                        He told you his method and heartily laughed.
                    
                    
                        Then on down the opposite side of the mountain,
                        Past many a homestead deserted and lone,
                        Where the rose bush climbed in, unrebuked, at the window
                        And the paths to the doorway were all overgrown.
                    
                    
                        Ah ! where are they now who once sat round its hearthstone?
                        Jocosely recounting the news of the day?
                        They are gone--and the silent old walls tell no story,
                        But the summer winds whisper, all, all, passed away.
                    
                    
                        There is seldom a sky that is perfectly cloudless,
                        And seldom a joy but a sadness creeps in;
                        So but for those lonely, deserted old houses
                        Our day on Mount Loverell too perfect had been.
                    
                    
                    
                        Ah! well it is past and it's folly recounting
                        The joys that were ours in the days that are fled,
                        But whenever I look at that picture you sent me
                        A ghost will arise of a summer that's dead.
                    
                
                
                    AFTERMATH.
                    
                        A beautiful dawn so soft and tender,
                        A golden haze in the Autumn air,
                        O'er all the hills in his misty splendor
                        The sun hath smiled and the world is fair.
                    
                    
                        A tiny barque, with white sails flowing,
                        Put out on the blue from a sunlit bay;
                        And we from the shore note it dimmer growing,
                        Until in the distance it fades away.
                    
                    
                        The air is chill, the sun is hidden,
                        The wind from the sea hath an ominous tone;
                        Though bravely the barque the waves hath ridden,
                        At eve a wreck drifts in alone.
                    
                    
                    
                        And thus, though we walk through life together,
                        Your path the same that my feet have known,
                        It is Fate's decree "all ties must sever,"
                        And into the harbor each drift alone.
                    
                
                
                
                    NOSTOLGIA.
                    
                        Oh, for a day on the banks of the Wabash,
                        Back where I first saw the light of the morn.
                        Oh, for a sight of the hills in the distance,
                        And for the sound of the wind in the corn.
                        Oh ! for a glint of the moon on the river,
                        A day 'mong the ruins that stand on the shore,
                        A bough from the cedars that shadow its portal,
                        Oh, for the days 't will return nevermore.
                    
                    
                        Oh ! for a stroll as of old on the sand bar,
                        Down where the fisherman's hut used to be;
                        Or for a swing on the grape-vine depending
                        Low from the boughs of the old locust tree.
                        Oh ! for a boat and a row in the moonlight,
                        To list to the rhythmical dip of the oar,
                        Or stand once again on the hills overlooking
                        The fair, fruitful valley and green-wooded shore.
                    
                    
                        Oh ! for an hour of youth's buoyant fancies,
                        To quicken the heart-throbs ; or one of serene
                        Bliss in oblivion, from which hath receded
                        The waters of Meribah that intervene.
                        Oh! to forget for a while the harsh lesson
                        That honor is bartered and friendship is sold,
                        And, with the beautiful faith of my childhood,
                        To cling to the phantoms the same as of old.
                    
                
                
                
                    THERE 'S DUST ON THE LITTLE CHAIR.
                    
                        The spiders have woven their silken nets
                        In and out with care;
                        Across the arms, and over the seat
                        And the back of the little chair.
                        And the gray dust covers it like a pall,
                        As it stands in the corner there,
                        Back under the eaves, against the wall,
                        The poor, little, lonesome chair.
                    
                    
                        Nobody sits in it any more,
                        Nobody seems to know
                        What has become of the little chair,
                        That was placed there long ago.
                        Yet I remember when it was new,
                        And filled one heart with pride;
                        But that was when it belonged, you know,
                        To the dear little girl that died.
                    
                    
                        I can see her now as I saw her then,
                        With a smile on her little face,
                        And I long to clasp her once again
                        Close to my heart's embrace.
                        But never again this side of life
                        Will that joy be mine, I know;
                        For the tiny form was laid away
                        'Neath the blossoms long ago.
                    
                    
                    
                        And alone and covered with dust, it stands
                        That was once her joy and pride,
                        And has known the touch of the tiny hands
                        Of the dear little girl that died.
                        I wonder where she is to-night,
                        And if she knows or would care,
                        Could she see the dust and the cobwebs now
                        On her poor, little, lonesome chair.
                    
                
                
                    LIFE.
                    
                        A glint of sunlight,
                        A dash of rain,
                        A smile, a song,
                        A moan of pain.
                        A clasping hand,
                        Grown strangely cold,
                        A tender face,
                        Beneath the mould.
                        A task begun,
                        And incomplete,
                        An aching heart,
                        And weary feet.
                        An open grave,
                        A prayer--and then--
                        "Dust unto dust"
                        Is life's Amen.
                    
                
                
                
                    SINCE YOU WENT AWAY.
                    
                        It is years and years since you went away,
                        Your grave 'neath the cedars has oft been white,
                        And the little maid whom you left that day
                        Is the gray-haired woman who dreams to-night
                        Of the fair young mother her childhood knew
                        Whose love she has missed all the long years through.
                    
                    
                        An April blending of shade and shine
                        Is warp and woof in this life of mine;
                        Songs as sweet as the Angels know,
                        Alternate with a dirge of woe
                        A golden dawn. A noontide gray,
                        Such is my life since you went away.
                    
                    
                        With a thrill of joy, and throb of pain,
                        I recall those vanished years again,
                        Joy for the faith in the days of yore,
                        Pain that that faith can return no more,
                        Broken idols whose fragments lay
                        'Long the path I've trod, since you went away.
                    
                    
                        Oft when the long day's work is through
                        I sit in the twilight and dream of you;
                        I recall your slender form, its grace,
                        The tender light on your fair young face;
                        The tone of your voice, the words you would say,
                        Float down the years since you went away.
                    
                    
                    
                        And I wonder oft what my life had been,
                        Whether more well doing, and less of sin,
                        Would my feet have traveled the self-same road?
                        Would the same flowers blossom, the same thorns goad?
                        Would the days be bright and the days be gray
                        Just as they've been since you went away?
                    
                    
                        They tell us beyond the churchyard mould
                        There's a beautiful land where we'll ne'er
                            grow old,
                        That we'll meet our friends who have gone before,
                        And through endless ages we'll part no more,
                        That unto you as a single day,
                        Are all these years since you went away.
                    
                    
                        Then thou art still as in life the same.
                        Am I thy daughter in aught but name?
                        I who am older in years than thou,
                        I who have furrows upon my brow,
                        Time's ruthless fingers we might not stay,
                        And we 're changed alas ! since you went away.
                    
                    
                        Still thou the Mother art young and fair,
                        No silver threads in your silken hair,
                        Not a trace of care on your smooth white brow,
                        And your babies men and women now
                        From whom all semblance is fled for aye
                        To the babes you left when you went away.
                    
                    
                        Ah ! Mother, methinks if that be true,
                        And the changes wrought are unknown to you,
                        
                        That though we meet on another shore
                        You'll find your little ones nevermore,
                        For your babies have all grown old and gray
                        In the lonely years, since you went away.
                    
                    
                        Then will the Mother heart cry in vain,
                        "Give me my little ones back again,
                        These men and women of youth bereft,
                        Are not the children that I left."
                        Aye the very same whom you left at play,
                        But 't is years and years since you went away.
                    
                    
                        It is all conjecture--of that life to come--
                        There are those who know but their lips are dumb.
                        The learned men of the present day
                        Know no more than the child at play.
                        Whence nor whither they cannot tell,
                        The lips of the dead guard the secret well,
                        Yet we fondly hope, and devoutly pray,
                        We may meet again, somewhere--some day.
                    
                
                
                    THE OLD SYCAMORE.
                    TO MY SISTER, MRS. F. H. MUNSON, OF OPEDEE, IND.
                    
                        Down by the river, there, close to the bank
                        (You remember it stood near the shore?),
                        We played at "keep house" where the grasses grew
                            rank
                        In the shade of the old sycamore.
                    
                    
                    
                        It was long years ago, yet still will arise
                        Before me that stately old tree.
                        I remember we thought that its top brushed the skies,
                        When you played in its shadows with me.
                    
                    
                        I see you to-night as when we were there,
                        'Way back on the old river farm,
                        The light sifting down on your tangled brown hair,
                        And your sun-bonnet swung on your arm.
                    
                    
                        We are playing "keep house" as we did long ago,
                        Our neighbors the birds and the bees.
                        Ah! we were rich, then (in the old days, you know),
                        When our currency grew on the trees.
                    
                    
                        We had but to reach forth, and the treasure was ours,
                        We could purchase innumerable things.
                        A burdock-leaf hat trimmed with natural flowers,
                        And dandelion curls for its strings.
                    
                    
                        What though our tinware was rusty and old,
                        And our crockery was all "second-hand;"
                        Our pastry just slightly suggestive of mould,
                        And our sugar was nothing but sand?
                    
                    
                        Though our babies had heads of an abnormal size,
                        Their beauty not even "skin deep,"
                        With back rubber buttons in lieu of bright eyes,
                        We caressed them, and sung them to sleep.
                    
                    
                    
                        Ah ! Nature, I fear thou art strangely perverse,
                        Though your wisdom I'm forced to allow.
                        How slight are the treasures our infancy nurse,
                        And how much we expect of thee now.
                    
                    
                        And yet it is well that these changes are wrought,
                        There's wisdom in Nature's decree.
                        Elusive tomorrows with promises fraught
                        Have lured us away from the tree.
                    
                    
                        The river sings on--we no longer are there
                        To join as of old in its song.
                        The maidens are matrons now burdened with care,
                        For the years have been many and long.
                    
                    
                        But oh, for an hour of that same childish trust
                        We knew in the fair days of yore,
                        When we made our mince pies out of turning-row dust,
                        In the shade of the old sycamore.
                    
                
                
                    THE FOLKS WE USED TO KNOW.
                    
                        Did you ever notice somehow,
                        As the years go slidin' past,
                        That you git to lookin' back'ard
                        Sorter wishful to'rds the last?
                        
                        
                            "Good-by, come over."
                        
                        
                        An' how them 'ats now your neighbors
                        Don't stand a ghost of show,
                        When you go comparin' of 'em
                        To the folks you used to know?
                    
                    
                        It 'pears we jist can't recollect
                        The fracases we 've had,
                        Nur forty 'leven other things
                        That made us fightin' mad.
                        But we've salted down the good un's,
                        An' no matter whur we go,
                        There's none can " hold a candle"
                        To the folks we used to know.
                    
                    
                        I mind when we was livin'
                        Out there on cedar crick,
                        There want no better neighborhood
                        When anyone tuck sick.
                        They 'd come from all d'rections,
                        Jist wade through rain ur snow
                        To see how you was "coming' on,"
                        The folks we used to know.
                    
                    
                        An' the vittels that they 'd fetch you,
                        Why ! they 'd fairly make you laf.
                        You 'd be deader nur a mackerel
                        If you'd only et the haf.
                        Put me in mind of fair time,
                        Or some purvishun show,
                        To see 'em packin' in thastuff,
                        The folks we used to know.
                    
                    
                    
                        My stars! but they was soshable
                        Out on the old state road,
                        And use to go a visitin'
                        Jist by the wagon-load.
                        They'd grin, shake hands, say
                            "how'dy,"
                        An' as plain as preachin' show
                        They was tickled most to pieces,
                        The folks we used to know.
                    
                    
                        They 'd feed us on fried chicken,
                        The best 't was in the shop,
                        An' pile your plate with vittels,
                        An' I vum ! they would n't stop
                        Till they made you most feel sneakin'
                        To see it loaded so,
                        Then say, "Take holt an' help yourself,"
                        The folks we used to know.
                    
                    
                        "We ain't no quality," they'd
                            say,
                        "We're only common folks."
                        An' then all hands would snicker,
                        An' fall to crackin' jokes.
                        An' afore you hardly know'd it,
                        Why, it was time to go,
                        So we 'd say "Good-by, come over,"
                        To the folks we used to know.
                    
                    
                        Where air they now, I wonder,
                        All them happy old-time folks
                        That made this life worth livin'
                        With their friendship and their jokes?
                        
                        Well ! I ask for nothin' better,
                        When it comes my time to go,
                        Than a ticket that 'll take me
                        To the folks we used to know.
                    
                
                
                    DOWN THE ROAD TO OPEDEE.
                    
                        Nigh the sleepy, creepy Wabash,
                        Loafin' lazy to'rds the sea,
                        There's a little railroad station
                        That is known as Opedee.
                        An' as I set hyur a thinkin'
                        It sorter all comes back,
                        An' I see the moonlight glisten
                        Down the shinin' railroad track;
                        An' the headlight, too, a flashin',
                        Jist as plain as plain kin be,
                        As the "Cannon-ball" goes dashin'
                        Down the road to Opedee.
                        Oh! the road to Opedee,
                        Whur the old home uster be,
                        There ain't no use a talkin'
                        Kase that's the road fur me.
                    
                    
                        When she whistles fur the crossin',
                        An' lets go to ketch her breath,
                        Then yells again terrific
                        Like some varment skeert to death,
                        Doors an' winders all fly open
                        
                        Jist to see what she's about,
                        An' you can't begin to count 'em,
                        The tow-heads peekin' out.
                        Lawzy massy! ain't I seen 'em!
                        Sakes a pity! don't I know!
                        Why bless your life! I lived there,
                        Tho' it does seem long ago.
                        Yet as I set hyur a dreamin'
                        It 'pears like I kin see
                        The "Cannon-ball" go screamin'
                        Down the road to Opedee.
                    
                    
                        Do n't you see the corn a wavin'?
                        Kaint you hear the Bob White's call?
                        Ain't the golden-rod a noddin',
                        An' a mindin' you of fall?
                        An' the August cricket chirpin'
                        By the roadside in the grass,
                        An' the hossweeds an' the mullins
                        Wavin' at you as you pass?
                        An' the katydids a yelpin',
                        An' the frogs a sassin' back,
                        As the engine cuts the breezes
                        Down the shinin' railroad track?
                        I'm jist plum sick of fashion,
                        An' that's whur I'd druther be,
                        On the "Cannon-ball," a dashin'
                        Down the road to Opedee.
                    
                    
                        But there ain't no use a whinin'
                        An' a wishin' you was there,
                        
                        Fur things ain't like they used to be,
                        There 's changes everywhere.
                        An' I 'low 't would make me lonesome
                        An' homesick, too, to see
                        Them strangers in the old house
                        A peekin' out at me.
                        But there is a time a coming'
                        When I'll visit that 'ere spot,
                        An' maybe some won't know me,
                        But they'll find I ain't forgot.
                        An' some day, sure as shootin',
                        They 'll ketch a glimpse of me
                        On the "Cannon-ball," a scootin'
                        Down the road to Opedee.
                    
                
                
                    AUNT MARY AND UNCLE JOE.
                    
                        Never seen 'em! Is that so!
                        Whur you been, I'd like to know.
                        I thought every one, fur an' near,
                        Livin' in twenty mile a here,
                        Any drection you'd a min' to go,
                        Know'd Aunt Mary an' Uncle Joe.
                    
                    
                        Middlin' as to looks an' sich,
                        Not what now days folks call rich,
                        But a blame sight richer 'n you or me,
                        My way o' reck'nin' wealth, you see,
                        
                        Got all he needs ? Why, to be shore
                        An' sense enough to want no more.
                    
                    
                        Sets by the fire in his rockin' cheer
                        'Bout haf asleep, this time a year.
                        Aint no hand to fret nur stew,
                        Knows he's a plenty to carry him through.
                        Taint no difference what he's worth,--
                        He aint the feller that "wants the earth."
                    
                    
                        His little old house like a drift of snow
                        ("It's built that way," so long and low)
                        Stands there smilin' on all that pass,
                        Sweet and fresh as a country lass,
                        Seemin' to say, maybe you do n't know
                        I b'long to Aunt Mary an' Uncle Joe?
                    
                    
                        Straight as die from the little front gate,
                        Bloomin' early, an' bloomin' late,
                        A row of posies stands on guard,
                        Each side the walk in the green front yard.
                        Zenies, marygolds an' phlox,
                        Chimney oysters, an' four o'clocks.
                    
                    
                        Every color that you kin name,
                        Puttin' the rainbow most to shame,
                        Bloomin' an' noddin' at your feet,
                        Makin' the little yard complete.
                        Out on the porch when the sun gits low
                        You 'll find Aunt Mary an' Uncle Joe,
                    
                    
                    
                        Cook? Well ! I 'd ruther guess she could,
                        My ! but her vittels tasted good.
                        Her plum puddins was, I vow !
                        (Golly ! my mouth 's a waterin' now.
                        Got anything you 'd like to bet?)
                        The best plum puddins you ever et.
                    
                    
                        I 'm tired of livin' in city style.
                        I 'd like to go back there for a while
                        When the grass gits green an' the posies bloom.
                        An' sleep in the same little spare bedroom
                        With the winder up, an' down the lane
                        The frogs a-yellin. Sign o' rain.
                    
                    
                        An' through the curtains, so white an' thin,
                        I could see the moonlight siftin' in,
                        Across the floor, whur it use to lay,
                        Makin' the room as light as day,--
                        My shoes in the corner over there
                        An' my clothes a layin' across a chair.
                    
                    
                        There's one thing shore, if I hev my way
                        They 'll see me in Croton agin,
                        someday. They used me well, an' I do n't forgit.
                        I wish 't I was livin' amongst 'em yit
                        In the little old house, but it 's gone, you
                        know, Close to Aunt Mary an' Uncle Joe.
                    
                
                
                
                    LITTLE JANEY.
                    
                        Little Janey ! Little Janey!
                        Hear the wind a sobbin' low,
                        Aint this awful lonesome weather ?
                        But I wouldn't mind it tho'
                        If I could look cross the fireplace
                        'Stead of that ere empty chair,
                        Jist could see our little Janey
                        'Live, 'an well, an settin'
                            there.
                    
                    
                        See her settin' there a smilin'
                        As she alleys done
                        With the doll I give her Christmas,
                        (Jist a little rubber one).
                        How I wish it had been better,
                        But you see, I didn't know.
                        Times was hard, an' she was well then.
                        Never dreamed she'd haf to go.
                    
                    
                        But if it had been a gold one
                        Don't believe she'd prized it more.
                        Orter seen her hug an' kiss it
                        As she danced about the floor.
                        An she said, "When you see Santy
                        Ish that you would tell him please
                        Zat his little rubber baby's
                        Ist the nicest thing to squeeze."
                    
                    
                    
                        Allers gathered up her playthings
                        An' she'd put 'em way herself
                        In the corner cupboard yonder,
                        (It was hern, the bottom shelf).
                        Hadn't many, see 'em standin'
                        In a row there side by side,
                        Where her little fingers placed 'em
                        Just a week afore she died.
                    
                    
                        Little Janey ! Little Janey !
                        Oh ! if I could call her back
                        There ain't nuthin money'd buy her
                        That that child would ever lack.
                        An' I'd set an' tell her stories,
                        An the work might go.
                        Use to say: "Now run play, Janey,
                        Mustn 't bother granmarm so."
                    
                    
                        Mustn 't bother ! Janey bother ?
                        With her little pretty ways
                        Brightinin' up the old dull homestead
                        Turnin' nights right into days,
                        Makin' all the light an' sunshine,
                        That we'd had for many a year,
                        God forgive me ! Janey bother ?
                        Oh ! if she was only here.
                    
                    
                        "Wrong to grieve ?" That what you tell me ?
                        How'm I goin' to help it though ?
                        Don't believe the "Lord's
                            offended,"
                        Kase 't was Him that made us so,
                        
                        An' he knowd when He took Janey
                        He was taken' all I had?
                        'Spose He spected I'd say thanky ?
                        Make believe that I was glad ?
                    
                    
                        "Think of her now as an angel
                        Floatin' round up there?"
                        No I'd ruther think of Janey
                        Settin' in her rockin' chair,
                        Singin' to her rubber baby,
                        'Thout no wings nur crown--a heap,
                        Jest a settin' there a singin'
                        Her old rubber doll to sleep.
                    
                
                
                    THINKIN' OF YOU ALL.
                    
                        Thinkin' of you all a sight,
                        Wishin' I was there to-night,
                        Wonder what you're doin' now,
                        Evenin' chores all done I 'low;
                        Settin' round the same old way,
                        Tellin' what you've done to-day,
                        Wish't I could be there an' see.
                        Wonder if you think of me.
                    
                    
                        See you settin' over there,
                        In the old split bottom chair,
                        Lookin' sorter tired an' beat,
                        Moonlight all around your feet,
                        
                        Rockin' easy like an' slow
                        An' a singin' soft an' low
                        To the baby on your knee.
                        Wonder if you think of me.
                    
                    
                        Menfolks out there in the yard
                        Growlin' 'cause the ground's so hard,
                        'Lowin' if it keeps on so
                        Corn nur nuthin' else 'll grow,
                        First a flood, an' then a drouth
                        --Lightnin' way off in the south--
                        'Pears like I kin hear 'em plain.
                        Someone said, "It's goin' to
                            rain."
                    
                    
                        Some night you'll be settin' there
                        In the old split bottom chair,
                        Rockin' easy like an' slow,
                        An' a singin' soft an' low;
                        Sbadder 'll fall across the floor,
                        Someone standin' in the door,
                        An' you 'll just look up an' see
                        That the someone there is me.
                    
                    
                        Then you 'll give one little squall,
                        Almos' let the baby fall,
                        Jump an' sorter ketch your breath;
                        Say "You skeert me most to death;
                        Thought you 's miles an' miles away;
                        Thinkin' 'bout you too all day;
                        Been a talking ' 'bout you some,
                        An' a wishin' you would come."
                    
                    
                    
                        Then I'll take the little chap,
                        Set down with him on my lap,
                        In the old split bottom chair,
                        Set down in the moonlight there
                        An' rock easy like an' slow,
                        While your voice so soft an' low
                        Tells me everything 'ats past
                        Sence we saw each other last.
                    
                    
                        Back there on the old home farm
                        With your baby on my arm,
                        Voice a soundin' just the same,
                        Smilin' as you speak my name,
                        Talkin' over what has been.
                        'Pears like I'd grow young agin
                        In the moonlight settin' there
                        In the old split bottom chair.
                    
                
                
                    THE ABANDONED HOMESTEAD.
                    
                        Alone it stands on the mountain side;
                        Its grim old face wears a look of pride;
                        No dust from the highway can intrude;
                        There is something grand in its solitude.
                        Its walls with mosses are overgrown,
                        There 's a concave place in the old door-stone
                        Worn by the feet that have long been still
                        'Neath the daisied grass on that silent hill.
                    
                    
                    
                        Giant elms on either side
                        Spreading their branches far and wide,
                        Stand like sentinels grim and tall,
                        Silently keeping watch o'er all;
                        Cinnamon roses sweet and fair,
                        In tangled masses everywhere.
                    
                    
                        Lonely house with moss-grown walls,
                        Though no echoing footstep falls,
                        In and out with noiseless tread
                        Come and go your silent dead,
                        Through the long closed portals flit,
                        And around your hearthstone sit.
                    
                    
                        Dust and ashes but remain.
                        Snow may drift against the pane,
                        Winds may sigh, and moan, and roar,
                        But the firelight gleams no more
                        Through the dusky, silent room,
                        Lighting up the gathering gloom.
                    
                    
                        Poor old house! 'T is well that thou
                        Art but wood and mortar now,
                        For if you could think or feel
                        There is naught your grief could heal,
                        Did you know that all were gone,
                        And you must perforce stay on.
                    
                    
                        Ofttimes will I think of you
                        Lonely nights when stars are few,
                        
                        When shadows rest on the gray old hill,
                        And the verberate notes of the whip-poor-will
                        Come with the breath of parting day,
                        From a moss-grown headstone o'er the way.
                        Think of the house on the lonely hill,
                        And with eyelids closed behold it still.
                    
                
                
                    MEMORY'S PICTURES.
                    
                        Oft in the quiet shadows,
                        When the evening sun is low,
                        I turn each page in my life book,
                        And read of the long ago.
                        And many there are engraven,
                        With pictures that do not fade,
                        And some that have grown the fairer
                        For the touches that time hath made.
                    
                    
                        Faces 't have long since vanished
                        And mouldered into dust,
                        Smile on me from its pages
                        With the old time love and trust.
                        And voices hushed to silence,
                        Amid a rain of tears,
                        As I review the volume,
                        Echo adown the years.
                    
                    
                        But my pictures are not all faces;
                        There are places I used to know,
                        
                        
                            "There are places I used to know."
                        
                        
                        There 's a shady lane and a sunset scene
                        On these pages of long ago.
                        There 's a glimpse of a winding river,
                        There are fields of waving grain,
                        There are skies that are blue and cloudless,
                        And skies that betoken rain.
                    
                    
                        There's a hill that slopes to the eastward,
                        A house that is old and gray,
                        There are cozy nooks and corners
                        That will live in my heart away.
                        There are days that were flooded with sunshine,
                        Nights when the moonlight smiled,
                        Days when the sun was hidden,
                        Nights that were dark and wild,
                    
                    
                        When the wind sobbed at the casement,
                        And the fire on the hearth burned low,
                        And my life seemed attuned to nature
                        With its rain and sleet and snow.
                        But the great round moon has risen,
                        Clear, and calm, and bright,
                        And is smiling in at the window,
                        Flooding the room with light.
                    
                    
                        And across the pages before me
                        There 's a glow of calm content,
                        For the clouds have drifted over,
                        And the force of the storm is spent.
                        
                        And yet when the day is ended,
                        And cometh the time for rest,
                        My thoughts will follow the sunlight
                        Into the golden west.
                    
                
                
                    EO NOMINE.
                    
                        How fair to my eye is my own native river
                        As silently onward its dark waters glide,
                        Through green mossy banks, where reeds bend and quiver,
                        Brushed by the foam of its ebullient tide.
                    
                    
                        And in my heart there's a fond recollection,
                        That gilds as by magic its lowliest scene,
                        The while I behold in its depths the reflection
                        Of fair vanished days with their marvellous sheen.
                    
                    
                        These bright sparkling rivers that leap from their fountains
                        And cheerily sing on their way to the sea,
                        Fair threads of silver adown the gray mountains,
                        Are naught to compare mighty river with thee.
                    
                    
                        The wide-spreading fields, the turning rows through them,
                        The corn in the tassel, the wheat in the sheaf,
                        The faces of friends, as I long ago knew them,--
                        Oh, the joy the dream bringeth surpasseth belief.
                    
                    
                    
                        " These bright sparkling rivers that leap from their fountains,
                            And cheerily sing on their way to the sea."
                    
                    
                    
                        Down by the river the sycamore's waving,
                        Slender and graceful the willows bend low,
                        Childhood's bare feet in its waters I'm laving,
                        Dreaming the dreams of the "sweet long
                            ago."
                    
                    
                        Oh! they were fair, those dreams of my childhood,
                        Rosy and bright as the tints of the dawn,
                        Sweet as the flowers of my own native wildwood.
                        But alas! like the blossoms, the visions are gone.
                    
                    
                        Yet unlike the blossoms the bleak winds have blasted
                        That will in their season deck hillside and plain,
                        These daydreams of ours that have not outlasted.
                        The storms of adversity bloom not again.
                    
                    
                        We chase the bright phantoms of youth 'till they leave us,
                        As children the gaudy winged insects pursue.
                        We fancy them ours, alas! they deceive us.
                        We reach forth to grasp them ; they fade from our view.
                    
                    
                        And yet, though the visions of youth are thus fleeting,
                        Alas! there are phantoms more transient than they.
                        The story of friendship will not bear repeating,
                        A beautiful spectre, it soon fades away.
                    
                    
                    
                        Yet though years come and go with their myriad changes,
                        Though friendship has proven itself but a name,
                        Though human affection misfortune estranges,
                        I'll return to thee, Wabash, and find thee the
                            same.
                    
                
                
                    THE MEMORY OF AN AUTUMN DAY.
                    
                        The memory of an Autumn day,
                        That dawned and faded long ago,
                        'Neath intervening skies of gray,
                        O'er bare brown fields where bleak winds blow,
                        Comes back to me across the years
                        Strewn with the blossoms of life's May
                        And through a golden mist appears
                        The memory of that Autumn day.
                    
                    
                        Aeolus played a tuneful strain
                        Across the fields of waving corn,
                        The migrant bird's farewell refrain
                        Had greeted us since early morn,
                        And far beyond the level lands
                        And hills whereon the pastures lie
                        A towering maple grandly stands,
                        A silhouette against the sky.
                    
                    
                        The river in its onward flow,
                        The myriad tints along the shore,
                        
                        Reflections in its depths below,
                        The music of the dripping oar,
                        The pungent woodland's odors borne
                        Upon the slumbrous Autumn air,
                        The tints and shades by nature worn,--
                        God never made a day more fair.
                    
                    
                        A hazy, dreamful Autumn sky
                        Still rosy where the dawnlight kissed,
                        And fleecy clouds went drifting by
                        Like fair regattas in the mist.
                        A mournful cadence in the air,
                        The chiming church bells far away,
                        A Sabbath stillness everywhere,
                        Are memories of that Autumn day.
                    
                    
                        We stood upon the beetling shore,
                        And watched the leaflets, gold and brown,
                        That for a moment hovered o'er
                        The dusky tide, then floated down,
                        And thought as we beheld them fall,
                        And saw them slowly drift away,
                        How like unto the fate of all
                        Upon life's sea, that Autumn day.
                    
                    
                    
                        Long years have passed--I've wandered far,
                        And you have crossed the border-land
                        That lies beyond the evening star,
                        And all its mysteries understand.
                        
                        And I who linger yet a while
                        When winds are bleak and skies are gray
                        Retrace my steps down memory's aisle
                        And live again that Autumn day.
                    
                
                
                    THE AFTERGLOW.
                    
                        Good-night dear friend; the daylight dies,
                        And stars are peeping through
                        The misty curtains of the skies.
                        Day says good-night to you.
                    
                    
                        And like some fair medieval queen
                        Who goes to meet her death,
                        She walks the earth with stately mien,
                        Smiles with her latest breath.
                    
                    
                        Her purple garments fringed with gold
                        Trail cross the western skies,
                        Their regal splendor fold on fold,--
                        She pauses--smiles--and dies.
                    
                
                
                    WHEN WE GET RICH.
                    
                        Zeke an' me'll hev a picnic
                        An' we'll make the money fly.
                        Lawzy massy! you wont know us
                        When you see us by an' by,
                        
                        He'll wear broadcloth, smoke Havanas,
                        Wear a stovepipe hat an' sich,
                        When our ship comes sailin' in, sir,
                        An' we
                        get
                        rich.
                    
                    
                        He 'll wear diamonds on his shirt front,
                        I 'll wear posies in my hat.
                        Yes, you bet we'll hev a coachman,
                        An' a colored one at that,
                        With a uniform an' buttons.
                        Oh! if we kin make things hitch
                        You 'll see " the lick its done with"
                        When we
                        get
                        rich.
                    
                    
                        We will own a manufactory,
                        An' we'll hire the old and poor,
                        If we pinch 'em an' we grind 'em
                        (That's our business to be sure),
                        If they strike for higher wages,
                        Why, we 'll leave 'em in the ditch
                        Till we freeze 'em an' we starve 'em
                        When we
                        get
                        rich.
                    
                    
                        We will build ourselves a palace
                        (A grand one to be sure),
                        
                        But we 'll own a lot of hovels,
                        An' we 'll let 'em to the
                            poor.
                        What if the roofs are leaky,
                        An' the ceilin's black as pitch?
                        They 'll be "good enough for poor folks"
                        When we
                        get
                        rich.
                    
                    
                        "Will we join a church?" Oh, yes, sir.
                        (Fine place to show your clothes,
                        Your diamonds and your satins,
                        And your other furbelows).
                        Zeke'll help to pay the preacher,
                        An' I'll furnish flowers an'
                            sich
                        To decorate the altar,
                        When we
                        get
                        rich.
                    
                    
                        An' when the circus's ended,
                        An' the will is read, you'll find
                        We forgot our poor relation
                        We were forced to leave behind;
                        An' left all our wealth to churches,
                        An' to asylums, which
                        Buys a ticket straight to Glory,
                        When we
                        get
                        rich.
                    
                    
                    
                        An' then when good St. Peter
                        Sees 'as loafin' round the gate,
                        He 'll not ask any questions,
                        For the old chap's "up to
                            date,"
                        And has heard of our endowments,
                        So he 'll step down from his niche,
                        An' say, "Go way up front there,
                        For you
                        got
                        rich."
                    
                
                
                    ON THEY GO.
                    
                        Bowed with grief and seared by pain,
                        Through the sunshine and the rain,
                        Up the steeps, across the plain,
                        On they go.
                    
                    
                        Jostled here, and jostled there,
                        Each one with his load of care
                        Hastening he knows not where,
                        On they go.
                    
                    
                        Hope still whispering in the ear.
                        "Skies ahead are bright and clear,
                        And the dawn is almost here,"
                        On they go.
                    
                    
                    
                        Through the Summer's fervid heat,
                        And the Winter's blinding sleet,
                        Weary hands and aching feet,
                        On they go.
                    
                    
                        Bravely smiling through their tears,
                        Whilst alternate hopes and fears
                        Chase each other down the years,
                        On they go.
                    
                    
                        Soon will come a fairer dawn,
                        Soon the clouds will all be gone,
                        Hills are greener farther on,
                        On they go.
                    
                
                
                    WHEN O'ER THE HILLS.
                    
                        When o'er the hills these Autumn days
                        A misty splendor stealeth,
                        And all the winding woodland ways
                        A tint of gold revealeth,
                        Around the heart with memories rife
                        Close girt the ties that bind us
                        To bygone days and scenes in life,
                        And friends we've left behind us.
                    
                    
                        And when the sun has sought the west,
                        Far o'er the distant mountain,
                        And nightly on the quiet breast
                        Of shimmering lake and fountain
                        
                        The evening star reflected gleams,
                        Ah! then 't will surely find us
                        Surrounded (though 't is but in dreams)
                        By friends we've left behind us.
                    
                    
                        When Luna peers above the hight
                        And countless stars are shining,
                        Oh! may their dreams be fair and bright
                        And I alone repining.
                        O Fate, thou fickle, frivolous maid,
                        Why hast thou not assigned us
                        A seat beneath the roof-tree's shade,
                        With friends we 've left behind us?
                    
                    
                        When bleakly blows the wintry blast,
                        And 'neath the drifts is hidden
                        A brightness all too fair to last,
                        These thoughts will come unbidden.
                        And oh ! forgive this wish, expressed
                        While tears of memory blind us,
                        For one wee spot within the breast
                        Of friends we 've left behind us.
                    
                
                
                    THE PLACE THAT ZEKIEL SOLD.
                    
                        There ain't no use a talkin',
                        It 's jest as I 's tellin'
                            Zeke,
                        If a body ain't contented,
                        Or mighty nigh (so to speak),
                        
                        He 'd about as well be nowhur.
                        As for me, I 'm shore I'd ruther,
                        Than to be tied down in one place
                        An' a yearnin' for another.
                    
                    
                        Now Zeke--(all men are jist like him)
                        He 's as good as the best, any day,
                        But us women folks is different
                        An' each on us hevs our way
                        An' it may be mine is foolish,
                        He tells me so now an' then,
                        An' 'lows we are
                            "chicken-hearted,"
                        A sight more so than men.
                    
                    
                        But you see he has sold the home-place,--
                        To be shore 't was with my consent,
                        But I did n't seem to mind it
                        Till I node that the thing had went,
                        Then I jist sot down on the doorstep,
                        An' I tho't in my soul I 'd
                            die;
                        An' Zekiel was that tuck back, sir,
                        He hadn't seen me cry
                        Sence the day they fetched us that telegraf
                        Concernin' our poor boy Dick,
                        Who was found amongst the killed, sir,
                        In that smashup at "Battle Crick."
                    
                    
                        Yes, he was our boy. Our baby,
                        The only one we had.
                        An' if I do say it who should n't,
                        There want no likelier lad
                        
                        In all of Cheshire county.
                        So full of life an' vim,
                        So kind to me an' his father,
                        Ah ! sir, we was proud of him.
                    
                    
                        But they fetched him home all mangled,
                        An' they would n't let us see;
                        Said we could remember him better
                        Just as he used to be,
                        If we did n't see him, layin' there
                        So cold, an' white, an' still.
                        So they carried him up to the graveyard
                        Back of us, on the hill.
                    
                    
                        That night, as we sot by the fireplace,
                        Jist Zekiel an' me, alone,
                        He reached out his old hand, sir,
                        An' tremblin' took my own.
                        An' says he to me, "Now, Mother,"
                        Then he choked an' could n't go on,
                        Fur the tho't had struck him, Whose mother?
                        Now that our boy was gone.
                    
                    
                        An' the old house seemed so lonesome
                        An' empty, an' awful still,
                        I gets up and goes to the winder
                        That looks out on the hill.
                        He shoved back his cheer an' follered,
                        But never a word was spoke.
                        Ah ! what is the good of words, sir,
                        When your heart within you's broke?
                    
                    
                    
                        He jist sot down beside me
                        An' sorter bowed his head.
                        An' the old clock kep' repeatin',
                        "Dick's dead! Dick's dead!
                            Dick's dead
                        An' there we sot in silence,
                        While it ticked the hours away,
                        Till off beyond the hilltops
                        We could see 't was coming' day.
                    
                    
                        Yes, sir, 't was well nigh mornin'
                        Afore that silence broke;
                        We'd both on us tho't it over,
                        But Zeke was the first that spoke,
                        An' says he, " We 're a gittin' old,
                            wife,
                        I'm feeble an' so air you.
                        We 'd better sell the home-place;
                        We 've no one to leave it to."
                    
                    
                        After that we talked it over.
                        Some 'lowed that we'd rue the day;
                        Agin, there was them as advised it,
                        An' tho't 't was our only way.
                        But we staid there all that winter,
                        An' you can hev no idee
                        How strange an' lonesome it was, sir,
                        With only him an' me.
                    
                    
                        But when the winter broke, like,
                        An' the roads was gettin' good,
                        There came a man from the village
                        (You know him?--William Hood)
                        
                        
                            "The old house just as it was, Sir, That morn in the far off
                                May."
                        
                        
                        An' said as how folks told him
                        We was talking' of sellin' out,
                        An' as he was a thinkin' of buyin',
                        He wanted to look about.
                    
                    
                        Well! Zekiel he got his hat, sir,
                        I went an' fetched his cane,
                        An' stood on the porch an' watched 'em
                        Go down the orchard lane,
                        On past the lower eighty,
                        Back whur the old house stood
                        Afore him an' me was married,
                        Jist at the edge of the wood.
                    
                    
                        An' somehow, as I stood watchin',
                        An' thinkin' of what had been,
                        The past seemed to all slip by me
                        An' I was a girl agin,
                        Standin' an' watchin' fur Zekiel,
                        An' countin' the minutes slow,
                        Jist as I'd stood an' watched fur him
                        Years an' years ago.
                    
                    
                        Then a robin out in the maple
                        Begun to chirp an' sing,
                        An' I tho't of our weddin'
                            mornin',
                        In another far-off Spring.
                        There was flowers at the East room winder,
                        Ah ! me, I kin smell 'em yit;
                        It's strange, after all these years, sir,
                        That somehow we don't forgit.
                    
                    
                    
                        An' the old house, jist as it was, sir,
                        That morn in a fur-off May,
                        Is afore me enough sight plainer
                        Than the one whur we set to-day;
                        An' even the sound of voices
                        Comes back to me, soft an' clear,
                        Tho' many of them 's been hushed, sir,
                        Fur more than forty year.
                    
                    
                        Ah, me! how strange this life is,
                        With its sunshine an' its clouds,
                        Its meetin's an' its partin's,
                        Its bridal robes an' shrouds.
                        But let me see ! Whur was I?
                        What was I goin' to say?
                        Oh! I mind; 't was about the home-place,
                        That Zekiel sold that day.
                    
                    
                        Well ! I 've never felt contented,
                        An' I s'pose I never will
                        Till they lay us both by Richard,
                        In the graveyard on the hill.
                        An' when we've reached that city
                        Whose streets are paved with gold,
                        I'm 'fraid I'll still be homesick
                        Fur the place that Zekiel sold.
                    
                    
                        But when they 're all a singin'
                        There, beside the Jasper sea
                        (I hain't no voice to speak of,
                        They 'll not miss the likes of me),
                        
                        
                            "I'll just slip ou an' rest me, In the old
                                home, 'neath the hill."
                        
                        
                        I'll jist slip out, unnoticed,
                        To whur it 's ca'm an' still,
                        An' rest me, as I used to,
                        In the old home 'neath the hill.
                    
                
                
                    MY OLD SCHOOL ALBUM.
                    
                        Hidden away in the attic I found it
                        In an old oaken chest back under the eaves,
                        It was covered with dust, there were cobwebs around it,--
                        That pall for dead years that the spider erst weaves.
                    
                    
                        Its hinges creaked sadly as though to remonstrate
                        In tones that were solemn, and measured, and slow,
                        As I reverently drew from its hasp the rude padlock,
                        And opened the chest that was closed long ago.
                    
                    
                        Then forth from its depths there stole a sweet perfume,
                        A breath from that beautiful island of yore
                        That lies afar off on time's mystic river,
                        And the keel of my barque was aground on its shore.
                    
                    
                        It seems almost sacrilege now to remove it;
                        'T has lain there unheeded through years that have
                            fled,--
                        
                        My old school album with dear vanished faces
                        That over life's pathway a halo once shed.
                    
                    
                        That name on the flyleaf I bore in my girlhood.
                        'T is linked with the name of the donor, you
                            see.
                        Ah! that proved not binding. The youth and the maiden
                        Have drifted apart since 't was given to me.
                    
                    
                        Have drifted apart and the years intervening
                        With dreary Decembers and pitiless snow
                        Had well nigh obscured all the blossoms of Spring-time
                        That gladdened the heart in the sweet long ago.
                    
                    
                        But ah! while I gaze on the faces before me,
                        Forgotten the years with their toil and their strife,
                        And my heart still responds to the selfsame emotions
                        That thrilled it far back in the morning of life.
                    
                    
                        As one yearningly looks on the face of a loved one
                        Ere the lid of the casket shall hide it for aye,
                        E' en so do I gaze on each face in my album,
                        Then tenderly closing it, lay it away.
                    
                    
                        With a hope that again in that far away somewhere,
                        That dim, misty somewhere, of which we are told,
                        We will meet and talk over the joys of life's morning,
                        With those who have known us and loved us of old.
                    
                
                
                
                    THEY WILL MISS YOU.
                    
                        They will miss you ! Ah ! they 'll miss you,
                        By and by.
                        There will come a day of sadness,
                        With no sound of mirth or gladness
                        Lingering nigh.
                    
                    
                        And with pale hands meekly folded
                        On your breast,
                        You will lie there calmly sleeping,
                        Unmindful of their weeping,
                        And at rest.
                    
                    
                        They will softly breathe your name
                        With a sigh.
                        While in anguish and in pain
                        Tears will fall like Summer rain
                        When you die.
                    
                    
                        And standing there beside you,
                        They 'll recall
                        All the tenderness you've shown them
                        In the long years you have known them,
                        One and all.
                    
                    
                        Then they'll fold away the garments
                        That you wore,
                        Saying softly, 'How we 'll miss you,"
                        And bending low, they'll kiss you
                        Just once more.
                    
                
                
                
                    TO MARIAN.
                    
                        Oh, little maid with eyes of blue,
                        And hair through which the sunbeams stray,
                        I tremble when I think of you,
                        A traveler on life's rugged way,
                        And wonder oft, whene'er I see
                        Your baby face so filled with glee,
                        If, as the years come on apace,
                        The sunny smile will leave the face;
                        And will that look of wonder grow
                        In these blue eyes that question so.
                    
                    
                        Thus far, a Summer day life's been,
                        No thought of guile, no touch of sin;
                        Filled to the brim with childish joy,
                        Your greatest grief a broken toy,
                        No harsher sound as yet you've heard
                        Than chime of bells or song of bird,
                        Or mother's tender cradle-tune,
                        When stars are out and night comes "doon.'
                    
                    
                        I, who have listened to the roar
                        Of angry breakers on the shore,
                        And seen the strong man tempest-tossed,
                        And fair, sweet womanhood all lost,
                        I tremble when I think of you,
                        Dear little maid with eyes of blue.
                    
                    
                        May He who "notes the sparrow's fall"
                        Adown your pathway shed His light,
                        
                        
                            "Oh, little maid with eyes of blue, And hair through which
                                the sunbeams stray."
                        
                        
                        And keep your heart as free from all
                        Deceit and guile as 't is to-night.
                        And when has come the sunset hour,
                        And softly tolls the vesper bell,
                        May He be with you, little one,
                        And gently whisper, "All is well."
                    
                
                
                    HILLS OF NEW ENGLAND.
                    
                        Oh, hills of brave New England,
                        Snow-crowned, cold, and white,
                        Whence came those wondrous jewels
                        You wear on your brow to-night?
                    
                    
                        No queen in her regal splendor
                        Had e'er such a winding sheet,
                        Such a fabulous wealth of diamonds
                        From her brow to her dainty feet.
                    
                    
                        They gleam, and glisten, and sparkle,
                        They sparkle, and glisten, and gleam,
                        Like gems of the far-off Orient
                        Your dazzling snowflakes seem.
                    
                    
                        But, alas! there are missing jewels,
                        Whose caskets, bleak and bare,
                        Stand silent and grim, like sentinels
                        Alone in the moonlight there.
                    
                    
                    
                        How oft in the wintry twilight
                        Of a far-off, long ago,
                        Have I watched those jewels, gleaming
                        Like rubies across the snow.
                    
                    
                        Those lights from farmhouse windows,
                        That shone out, warm and bright,
                        From that altar of home, the fireside,
                        Into the solemn night.
                    
                    
                        Telling of warmth and comfort,
                        Of peace, and of rest for all,
                        Though the winds might howl about them,
                        And the drifting snowflakes fall.
                    
                    
                        Alas ! from that "shining circle"
                        These "jewels have dropped away,"
                        Till the casket alone remaineth,
                        Silent, and cold, and gray.
                    
                    
                        One by one they have wandered
                        Forth from the open door,
                        One by one they have vanished,
                        Gone, to return no more.
                    
                    
                        There, 'neath the sunny casement,
                        When summer days have come,
                        The neglected rose will blossom,
                        The drowsy bee will hum.
                    
                    
                    
                        The lilacs by the gateway
                        Will wave their purple plumes,
                        And waft their breath of fragrance
                        Through all the silent rooms.
                    
                    
                        The mill pond by the meadow,
                        As in the long ago,
                        Will don its crowd of lilies,
                        And none be there to know.
                    
                    
                        How fair and sweet the blossoms
                        Of fragrant white and gold,
                        And the girlish heart that loved them
                        In the sunny days of old.
                    
                    
                        Far away from thee, New England,
                        On the prairies of the West,
                        Dreams, perchance, of the old mill pond,
                        With the lilies on its breast.
                    
                
                
                    IN THE TWILIGHT.
                    
                        Like a memory faint and dim
                        Of the face of cherubim
                        Seen on old cathedral walls
                        Where the daylight softly falls,
                        In the twilight come and go
                        Faces that I used to know.
                    
                    
                    
                        Childish faces sweet and fair,
                        With no marks of grief, or care,--
                        Long ere they had learned to frown
                        Death had "kissed their eyelids down."
                        Little faces 'neath the mould,
                        Faces that will ne'er grow old.
                    
                    
                        Down the long, dim aisle appears
                        Others, of maturer years,
                        While with censer swinging slow,
                        Memory chants of long ago.
                        Aloe, bitter sweet, and myrrh
                        Is the incense known to her.
                    
                    
                        But behold ! erect and fair,
                        Stands a stately maiden where
                        Falls the sunlight on her brow,
                        And an anthem greets us now.
                        Hark ! we catch the glad refrain,
                        "Those who part shall meet again."
                    
                    
                        Sad-eyed Memory slowly turns
                        Where the bright effulgence burns.
                        Lo ! with lilies in her hands
                        Hope, her fair twin sister, stands.
                        Memory smiling through her tears
                        Turns her back on vanished years
                        And with arms extended wide
                        Hastens to the maiden's side;
                        There with head upon her breast,
                        Smiling sweetly sinks to rest.
                    
                
                
                
                    IN MEMORIAM.
                    [Written December, 1889, on the death of Jefferson Davis.]
                    
                        There's a piteous wail on the southland breeze,
                        A sob in the air, a moan through the trees,
                        And a tolling of bells, for passing away
                        Is he who stood first in the ranks of the gray.
                    
                    
                        Their flags are at half mast and emblems of grief
                        Float out o 'er the land, befitting their chief
                        Whose heart was e 'er true to their weal and its trust
                        And whose soul wings its flight from its dwelling of dust.
                    
                    
                        His exile is ended, his pilgrimage o'er,
                        And venomous shafts vex his spirit no more,
                        And now may the mantle of charity fall
                        And tenderly, peacefully, cover the pall.
                    
                    
                        Washington, Lincoln, and Grant o'er the tide
                        Welcome the spirit with no thought to chide
                        The hero, though vanquished, yet valiant as they
                        Who stood at the head in the ranks of the gray.
                    
                    
                        Tenderly lay him to rest 'neath the sod,
                        Trustfully leaving his errors with God.
                        Peace to his ashes ! and pardon for aye,
                        To all who went forth in the ranks of the gray.
                    
                
                
                
                    ANSWER TO JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY'S "TALKS ON THE
                        WAR."
                    
                        So you was fur the union? Well, I fit agin it,
                        Fit like a Turk, sir, fur all there was in it.
                        Went out with the boys in sixty-one,
                        An' I stayed with 'em too till the war was done.
                        Pshaw ! The very idee that "both was
                            winner,"
                        No thank you, sir, I want no dinner.
                    
                    
                        Of course the fracas is over an' done;
                        We lost, so it follers that you 'uns won.
                        "Forgit !" Do you say? I wish we could,
                        You fellers wont let us if we would.
                        Why, man alive, how kin we forgit
                        An' you 'uns a harpin' about it yit ?
                    
                    
                        Lord ! there 's hardly a paper you pick up now
                        But there's somethin' in it about the row.
                        Pictures of soldiers with "war paint on,"
                        Stories of battles long since done.
                        A cock can't forgit he 's licked, you know,
                        When he hears the other feller crow.
                    
                    
                        Forgit, great God ! do you 'spose we can?
                        What do you take us for, my man?
                        'Taint of blood 't was spilled, nor of lives
                            't was lost,
                        Nor of ruined homes, that we count the cost.
                        Set down if you 've nothin' else to do,
                        An' let me give you a pinter or two.
                    
                    
                    
                        While you had us down have you forgot
                        How you plied the lash in a tender spot?
                        An' tried to make us swaller that pill
                        That we never did, and never will?
                        Ah ! that was a leetle bit too thin.
                        The blacks can 't rule us, durn your skin.
                    
                
                
                    THE MEMORIAL GUN.
                    [The two following poems were written at the request of Capt. E. C. Newman,
                        through whose efforts the town of Hillsborough received this souvenir of the
                        Civil war, which he desired to place in the public square, and to which some
                        objected.]
                    
                        What though it were worn and rusty in places,
                        A crack in the barrel, a dent in the side?
                        We can look on the gun and recall the brave faces
                        Of those who went forth in their valor and pride.
                        It was long years ago, yet well we remember
                        How bravely they marched to the fife and the drum,
                        And through the flames, the smoke, and the ember,
                        The mandate obeyed, when the nation said come.
                    
                    
                        Is there one who forgets, now, the sadness and sorrow,
                        That fell like a pall on the sunlight that day,
                        
                        The dread and the gloom in the thought of the morrow,
                        When we saw through our tears the brave boys march away?
                        'T was long years ago, and still there's no token
                        To say to the world, "Our heroes were
                            there."
                        And e'en the old gun, which so bravely hath spoken
                        In liberty's cause, may not rest on the square.
                    
                    
                        An obstruction, they call it. Ah, he who thus named it,
                        At sight of the gun should uncover with pride.
                        It belonged to the cause, and Freedom ne'er shamed it,
                        In its smoke she hath conquered, and Slavery died.
                        Though old, not discarded, the voice of its thunder
                        Is echoing on over mountain and wave,
                        And tyrants now listen in silence and wonder,
                        While its vigil is kept o'er the sleep of the
                            brave.
                    
                    
                        "Old," not discarded ! oft memory hath wreathed it
                        In garlands of laurel and blossoms of bay.
                        Rememb'ring the heroes whose blood hath bequeathed it,
                        We'll reverence the old gun forever and aye;
                        And let the names of our heroes, now sleeping,
                        Be upon it engraven, in characters bold,
                        That will say to the world : O'er them I am keeping
                        Watch, while the tale of their valor is told.
                    
                    
                    
                        Alas ! that its right hath e'er been disputed
                        To stand as a sentry in midst of the square.
                        May the claim of dissenters at once be refuted,
                        And tenderly--reverently--place the gun there.
                        And to remain a memorial most fitting,
                        Voicing the sufferings and fate of the brave,
                        Unchanged by the years in their advent or flitting,
                        Whilst o'er it the colors they died for shall
                            wave.
                    
                    
                    
                        Is patriotism dead?
                        And shall it now be said
                        Our heroes are forgot?
                        Is there no fitting spot
                        Whereon we may erect
                        This token of respect
                        To those so brave and true,
                        Our boys who wore the blue
                        In sixty-one?
                    
                    
                        Is it so far away,
                        That sad and darksome day,
                        That it has ceased to be
                        Aught but a history?
                        Do not your pulses thrill
                        At mention of them still,
                        Who in the battle's track
                        Went forth, and came not back,
                        In Freedom's cause?
                    
                    
                    
                        And must this brave old gun,
                        That fought so well and won,
                        Stand in an obscure spot
                        Upon some vacant lot?
                        Ah, no ; with love and pride
                        Engrave upon its side
                        The names of those who fell
                        'Mid rain of shot and shell,
                        Hillsboro's sons.
                    
                    
                        Then, with the flag unfurled,
                        Proclaim to all the world
                        Your sentiments, imbued
                        With love and gratitude.
                        For 't was a glorious fight,
                        And ye have won the right
                        To stand forever there
                        Upon the public square--
                        Memorial gun.
                    
                
                
                    MEMORIES INOPPORTUNE.
                    
                        They are all gone now, the house is silent,
                        You may draw the curtains, turn off the light,
                        I have had enough of this so-called fashion
                        To last me a dozen years, to-night.
                    
                    
                        The gleam of jewels, the sheen of satin,
                        Portly dames in their filmy lace,
                        
                        God's own image in waxed mustaches,
                        Tooth-pick gaiters, and inane face.
                    
                    
                        And you thought I enjoyed myself immensely
                        With the grave professor so debonair!
                        But I danced the while with a phantom partner,
                        And my thoughts were a thousand miles from there.
                    
                    
                        "Where were they then?" Well, I'll tell you,
                            Kittie,
                        Yes, call me plebian if you will,
                        They were miles away from your elite city
                        At a country dance near the "Doyle
                            Hill."
                    
                    
                        There were girls and boys whom I saw in fancy
                        In calico dresses, and home-made suits,
                        Bill and Lucy, Jim and Nancy,
                        Crocheted laces and "bran new" boots.
                    
                    
                        That orchestra there behind the flowers,
                        Do you think I heard one tune it played?
                        I was dancing away the "wee sma" hours
                        To the music John Watson's fiddle made.
                    
                    
                        And John; I can see him, oh, so plainly,
                        There is n't a detail that I lack,
                        One knee on the floor and striving vainly
                        To master a waltz with his head thrown back.
                    
                    
                        It is years and years since I danced to his playing,
                        But somehow it all comes back to-night,
                        The bare brown walls, the figures swaying,
                        The shuffling feet, and the flickering light
                    
                    
                    
                        Of the lantern hung from the gray old rafter,
                        The corn piled high on the warehouse floor,
                        The shouts of mirth, and the peals of laughter,
                        Oh, to hear them again once more.
                    
                    
                        Where are they all to-night, I wonder,
                        Who have danced with me near the "Doyle
                            Hill,"
                        Alas! for the ties the fleet years sunder,
                        And for all whom ghosts from the past haunt still.
                    
                    
                        Some grown weary of this life's burden
                        Have gone to the land where none shall weep;
                        Theirs at last the well-earned guerdon
                        Of folded hands, and a dreamless sleep.
                    
                    
                        And yet sometimes when the shades are falling,
                        And down through the pines the wind sobs low,
                        Methinks I can hear their voices calling,
                        As oft I have heard in the long ago.
                    
                    
                        And ah! who knows that we do not hear them,
                        This mystery of mysteries, who will explain?
                        Who shall say that we are not near them,
                        Or that they ne'er come back again?
                    
                    
                        Who hath not felt when sad and weary,
                        Longing to loose life's fettering bands,
                        When " all the world seemed dark and dreary"
                        The burden lifted by unseen hands?
                    
                    
                    
                        Who hath not sensed a presence near them,
                        Strange, impalpable as air,
                        That seemed to say, though they did not hear them,
                        "Peace be still !" their dead were
                            there.
                    
                    
                        And so to-night mid the flash of jewels,
                        The crash of the music, the glare and show,
                        Who knows but mine was a phantom partner,
                        From the rustic revels of long ago?
                    
                
                
                    FRIEND OF MY YOUTH.
                    TO MRS. N. H. CAREY OF PROVIDENCE, R. I.
                    
                        Friend of my youth does hope still sing
                        The old glad songs of the early spring?
                        Are they merry and sweet as the songs she sung
                        In the far-off days when we both were young?
                        Has she her promise fulfilled in truth?
                        Or has she forsaken thee, friend of my youth?
                    
                    
                        Friend of my youth, when the dawnlight shed
                        Its golden glamour o'er days ahead,
                        In the light of its wondrous gleam and glow,
                        We builded our castles--long ago.
                        What beauty and grandeur was theirs forsooth;
                        Hast thou forgotten them,' friend of my youth?
                    
                    
                    
                        Friend of my youth in the lurid glare
                        Of the noonday sun are the flowers less fair?
                        Do you find them now as then (at will),
                        And have they retained their fragrance still?
                        Do the blossoms of friendship and faith and truth
                        Still adorn your path? Oh, friend of my youth!
                    
                    
                        Friend of my youth, when the sun is low,
                        When the heart is heavy and pulse is slow,
                        We will sit in the light of the fading day
                        And dream of a haven not far away,
                        Whence our hopes have fled, and where love and truth
                        Will bloom eternal! Oh, friend of my youth.
                    
                
                
                    MY TREASURES.
                    
                        I turn the key in the casket
                        And slowly open the lid
                        Where for long, long years in darkness
                        My treasures have all been hid.
                    
                    
                        "What are those treasures?" you ask me,
                        "Jewels bright and rare?"
                        No, only a few old letters
                        Lie hidden and mouldering there.
                    
                    
                        Only a few old letters
                        Tied with a sombre string,
                        But oh, what train of memories
                        Their yellow pages bring.
                    
                    
                    
                        What a train of sunny memories,
                        Golden, bright, and fair,
                        May cling to a musty letter
                        Or a tiny lock of hair.
                    
                    
                        At their touch as if by magic,
                        The curtain will slowly rise,
                        And there in its tender beauty
                        The past before you lies.
                    
                
                
                    "AT REST."
                    
                        I stood to-day by a casket,
                        With love's last offering dressed,
                        And saw amid the blossoms
                        These beautiful words, "At rest."
                    
                    
                        And I thought as I gazed on the sleeper,
                        As in silence and peace he lay,
                        How toilsome had been the journey,
                        How rugged and steep the way.
                    
                    
                        How little of joy and sunshine,
                        How much of grief and pain,
                        And could I have called the spirit
                        Back to its house again,
                    
                    
                        I would but have folded closer
                        The pale hands to his breast,
                        Not having the heart to wake him,
                        Seeing him thus " At rest."
                    
                    
                    
                        He had toiled through the heat of summer,
                        And on through the rain and sleet,
                        Till the burden had grown too heavy,
                        Falt'ring the weary feet.
                    
                    
                        Not with the hope of fortune,
                        But with a silent dread,
                        Of the "wolf at the door," he had striven,
                        Toiled for his daily bread.
                    
                    
                        The pale thin hands were folded,
                        The brow was marked by care,
                        There were numberless threads of silver
                        All through the dark brown hair.
                    
                    
                        And yet he was not an old man,
                        Nay just in the prime of life,
                        But the battle had been a fierce one,
                        And these were the marks of strife.
                    
                    
                        One by one his neighbors
                        In a long procession passed,
                        Each pausing for a moment
                        To silently look their last.
                    
                    
                        Then one who was bent and aged
                        Brushed the moisture from his cheek,
                        And said in a voice that faltered,
                        "Friends, I've a word to speak.
                    
                    
                    
                        "I have known this man from childhood,
                        Gainsay it ye who can,
                        But he who lies before you
                        Was ever an honest man.
                    
                    
                        "And I challenge one among you,
                        No matter who ye be,
                        To say of this silent sleeper,
                        He hath defrauded me."
                    
                    
                        He paused as for an answer,
                        No sound the silence broke,
                        Again the old lips quivered,
                        And thus again he spoke:
                    
                    
                        "Though the path he trod was humble,
                        No fame did his life-work bring,
                        Yet he lies in that simple casket
                        Crowned by his life, a king."
                    
                
            
        
    
