
     ----CITATION---- 
        Foulke, William Dudley, 1848-1935. Maya; A Story of Yucatan: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3911
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    THE MEETING OF MAYA AND SANDOVAL (See page
                            36)
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    MAYA: A STORY OF YUCATAN
                
                 BY
                    WM. DUDLEY FOULKE
                     ILLUSTRATED 
                
                    SECOND EDITION
                
                
                    G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS
                    NEW YORK AND LONDON
                    The Knickerbocker Press
                    1901
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1900BYWM. DUDLEY FOULKE
                Set up and electrotyped, November, 1900. Reprinted, January,
                    1901.
                The Knickerbocker Press, New York
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. THE CASTAWAYS 1
                        
                    II. THE FUGITIVES 10
                        
                    III. GUERRERO AND AGUILAR 13
                        
                    IV. SANDOVAL 21
                        
                    V. THE SENOTE 27
                        
                    VI. THE WATER CARRIERS 32
                        
                    VII. THE FIRST ENCOUNTER 39
                        
                    VIII. MEDIATION 45
                        
                    IX. HISTORY 48
                        
                    X. MAYA'S SCHEME 58
                        
                    XI. MAYA AND HER MAIDENS 63
                        
                    XII. DREAMS AND DEVICES 69
                        
                    XIII. PREPARATIONS 76
                        
                    XIV. THE NEW-MADE GOD 82
                        
                    XV. THE WEDDING 88
                        
                    XVI. AT THE CHAMBER IN THE TEMPLE 95
                        
                    
                    XVII. THE EMBASSY 104
                        
                    XVIII. REPROOF--INSTRUCTION 113
                        
                    XIX. THE SPY 116
                    XX. REVENGE 122
                        
                    XXI. RELEASE 127
                        
                    XXII. EXILE 134
                        
                    XXIII. AHCUNAL 138
                        
                    XXIV. LEGENDS 145
                        
                    XXV. UXMAL 153
                        
                    XXVI. THE CHILD 162
                        
                    XXVII. THE GODS' DECREES 166
                        
                    XXVII. THE CROSS 174
                        
                    XXIX. THE INVADERS 180
                        
                    XXX. CONSOLATION 187
                        
                    XXXI. CANEK 191
                        
                    XXXII. BEREAVEMENT 194
                        
                    XXXIII. THE SONG 200
                        
                    XXXIV. SUBMISSION 203
                        
                    XXXV. THE ORIOLE 207
                        
                    XXXVI. THE NUPTIALS 211
                        
                    XXXVII. CONCLUSION 215
                        
                
            
            
            
                ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    THE MEETING OF MAYA AND SANDOVAL 
                            Frontispiece
                        
                        
                    
                    UXMAL. THE NUNNERY. EAST FAҪADE, WITH HOUSE OF THE DIVINER BEYOND 52
                        
                    UXMAL. THE NUNNERY. CORNICE ON SOUTH FAҪADE 154
                    UXMAL. THE NUNNERY. PART OF WEST FAҪADE 158
                        
                    UXMAL. HOUSE OF THE DOVES 174
                        
                
            
            
            
                INTRODUCTORY
                THE peninsula of Yucatan, projecting northward into the Gulf of
                    Mexico, which it separates from the Caribbean Sea, is above all other regions of
                    the earth a fit abode for the mysterious and the supernatural. The Spaniard who
                    dwells amid more genial surroundings will tell you that it is un
                        pais muy triste, "a very sad land." And this it is
                    especially during the dry season, which begins with our winter and ends in
                    May--a season when the forests are stripped of their foliage and innumerable
                    trunks and branches, twisted and gnarled, wave their grotesque arms like hosts
                    of spectres. Upon the ground there is no hint of the green herbage of our more
                    temperate climes, no river, brook, nor glistening of laughing water anywhere;
                    the rain which still falls occasionally near the beginning and end of the long
                    drouth steams up from the hot soil or is sucked
                    through crannies of the limestone into pools far down amid the dark recesses of
                    the earth.
                For great caverns lie below, profound abysses into whose depths the inhabitants
                    of cities now in ruins used to betake themselves for water until their steps
                    have worn deep pathways in the stone.
                It is a low flat land, as monotonous as Sahara--with stunted hills and stunted
                    trees--with a sun which hurls its rays upon the earth till all things hide, or
                    slinks behind a mass of clouds as sullen and sombre as the land--with an air
                    which stifles the throat that breathes it at noonday, and brings the exhalations
                    of miasma with the chill of night--with thickets impenetrable filled with
                    noisome insects and venomous reptiles, but with no shade nor cheer. Apart from
                    the towns and straggling villages which are clustered near the coast, and
                    excepting occasional haciendas, devoted mainly to the culture of hennequin (a
                    variety of the century plant, used for the manufacture of hemp), such toay is
                    the wild land upon which half a hundred ruined cities, many of them vast and
                    beautiful, have already been discovered, while
                    perhaps others are still hidden in the wilderness.
                For explorations are still going on in the interior, which is inhabited by wild
                    tribes of Indians who lurk in its recesses and sometimes beset the path of the
                    wayfarer or wage a desultory war against the government. And yet the finely
                    chiselled features and delicate limbs of this fierce race bear witness that it
                    is the offspring of a people far different from that which dwells upon the land
                    today. Indeed, the civilised Indians and the Mestizos (descendants of the same
                    Maya stock, intermingled more or less with Spanish blood), who constitute the
                    farm labourers and the artisans of Yucatan, are a people kind, docile,
                    courteous, hospitable, scrupulously clean and fairly industrious, honest and
                    intelligent even after their long service as hewers of wood and drawers of water
                    for their Castilian masters. One cannot compare these Mestizos with the mongrel
                    inhabitants of other parts of Mexico without a feeling that the Maya ancestor
                    must have been far ahead of his Aztec neighbour in those things which go to the
                    making up of character.
                Perhaps the "sad land" upon which the Mayas established their abodes was itself one of the
                    causes of their superiority. It was in barren Attica that Greek civilisation
                    reached its highest development. It was upon the shores of New England that our
                    own best institutions first took root. In like manner, it was upon the
                    "Maayha" peninsula, the "land without water"
                    (for this is one of the interpretations of the word), that there were found the
                    noblest illustrations of the culture of our Western continent before the coming
                    of the European.
            
            
            
                ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
                THE author acknowledges his obligations to the following works
                    in preparing the historical, legendary, and descriptive portions of his book:
                    Land, Relaciones de las Cosas de Yucatan; Cogolludo, Conquista de la Nueva España; Irving, Voyages of
                        the Companions of Columbus; Prescott, Conquest of Mexico
                        ; John L. Stephens, Incidents of Travel in Yucatan;
                    Hubert Howe Bancroft, Native Races and Mexico; Desiré Charnay,
                        Ancient Cities of the New World; Brasseur de Bourbourg,
                        Nations Civilisées du Mexique; Daniel G. Brinton, Myths of the New World and The Maya Chronics
                        ; William H. Holmes, Monuments of Yucatan; Justin
                    Winsor, Narrative and Critical History of America; Eligio
                    Ancona, Historia de Yulcatan; Alice Le Plongeon, Here and There in Yucatan.
            
            
            
            
                MAYA
            
        
        
            
            
                MAYA
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE CASTAWAYS
                    AT the beginning of the year 1512, when our story opens,
                        the white man had not yet set foot in Yucatan. But the great islands of
                        Fernandina (or Cuba) and Hispaniola (which we call San Domingo) had passed
                        into Spanish hands, and from these islands expeditions had set out in
                        various directions for the conquest of unknown lands. One of the most
                        important was that which had established upon the isthmus of Panama the
                        settlement of Darien. This expedition had fallen under the command of Balboa
                        ; among his followers was one Valdivia, who was afterwards sent back to
                        Hispaniola to make report of the doings of his chief, to procure provisions,
                            and to convey to the royal treasury a
                        considerable quantity of gold.
                    Off the coast of Jamaica, Valdivia was overtaken by a hurricane, and his
                        small caravel, a clumsy craft to battle with a storm, was soon dismantled.
                        It filled with water, lay for a time at the mercy of the waves, and finally
                        sank upon the shoals known as Caymanes, or the Alligators.
                    Valdivia and his crew, twenty in all, took refuge in an open boat. They had
                        no sail, their oars had been broken by the storm, and they could make no
                        headway against wind and current. For thirteen days they drifted helplessly.
                        They were tortured by the pangs of thirst, and one after another perished,
                        until seven had been cast into the sea, where their bodies quickly became
                        the prey of the sharks, whose long sharp fins were seen above the water
                        gliding silently and smoothly close to the side of the boat.
                    At last, on a day when hope was wholly dead among the survivors, they came in
                        sight of land. With all the strength left in their exhausted bodies they
                        struggled to reach the shore, and finally landed on a narrow strip of beach.
                        Just beyond was a low ledge of rock where thickets grew, and at whose edge the palms curved outward and then rose
                        tall and stately toward the sky. Here the wanderers sank upon the warm
                        smooth sand in utter weariness.
                    Suddenly from the thickets there dashed forth a multitude of dark-skinned
                        natives. Most of these had no other garment than a long cotton cloth wound
                        about the loins, but a few, who seemed of greater dignity, wore short
                        sleeveless tunics embroidered in bright colours and extending to the knees.
                        Their long matted hair was coiled round their heads and decked with the
                        plumage of tropical birds. Many carried bows and arrows or brandished spears
                        with heads of flint; a few had large two-handed swords of hard world with
                        sharp flint edges.
                    Some ran quickly toward the boat, dragged it across the beach, and broke it
                        in pieces on the rocks at the edge of the forest; others surrounded the
                        forlorn wanderers, who, too weak to resist, were easily made captives. Their
                        hands were bound with strong cords, and they were led to an Indian village,
                        where they passed through a multitude of women and children, and were taken
                        into an enclosure surrounded by high palisades. Within was a large oval cabin or lodge, built of round poles placed close
                        together, plastered and covered by a steep thatched roof of palm leaves.
                        Their cords were loosed and their captors brought them water, honey, and
                        cakes of maize, together with fish and fowls.
                    Here then were shelter and refreshment, and the captives began to hope that
                        they had fallen into kindly hands. But after they had eaten, they were bound
                        again, and led into the lodge. Worn out by exposure and suffering, they lay,
                        some upon hammocks which they found suspended from the ridge-poles of the
                        building, and some upon beds made of cane network set upon short posts and
                        overspread with mats; and before the night closed in, they covered their
                        dreadful memories and uncertain apprehensions with the mantle of a deep,
                        unbroken sleep.
                    When they awoke, the village was astir. The gate of their enclosure had been
                        opened, and the people of the place had gathered to gaze upon the strange
                        beings and wonder at their light skins, their beards, and curious clothing.
                        The Spaniards could not understand what was said, but from the gestures they
                        thought the natives seemed to remark how weak
                        and thin they were, and when abundant food was offered them they took it as
                        a proof of kindness and sympathy. They were suffered to live in idleness and
                        great reverence was paid them, yet they were freed from their fetters only
                        while they were eating. They could not understand the reason for this, but
                        since their meal-time was their only hour of liberty they naturally wished
                        to prolong it. To this their guards did not object, but always waited
                        patiently till they were done. Eggs, game, rice, fruits, and a strange sort
                        of wine, not very good to taste, but quite intoxicating, were added to their
                        diet. They ate heartily, and it was not long until they had grown strong and
                        well again.
                    One of their number, Jeronimo de Aguilar, was priest. Whenever his arms were
                        released from their fetters he held up a small crucifix which hung from his
                        neck, while his companions fell upon their knees in prayer, and on several
                        occasions when the wine was offered them he endeavoured, in rude fashion, to
                        celebrate the mass. His captors looked on with interest and curiosity, and
                        upon a sign from him they followed the Spaniards
                        in the outward postures and signs of devotion, as if willing to join in
                        adoration of the strange deity.
                    After the Spaniards had remained perhaps two months in this captivity, they
                        noticed one morning that a great crowd had gathered in the village.
                        Multitudes arrayed in bright apparel had come from the country round about,
                        and in an open square in front of their prison all was made ready for a
                        great feast. The houses were bedecked with flowers, and the prisoners saw
                        through the chinks of the palisades that there were many garlands upon the
                        sides and summit of a flat-topped pyramid on one side of the square. They
                        had noticed that there was a broad, steep stairway on one side of this
                        pyramid, and a stone cornice just below the level surface on top, and they
                        wondered what could be the purpose of such a building. It towered high above
                        the houses of the town, and seemed to have been made for distinction and
                        show. There was a large stone near the middle of the flat area at the
                        summit, and another smaller one in front. This day they saw many Indians
                        climbing the stairway and scattering flowers along the way.
                    
                    Evidently some public ceremonial was at hand. The captives also noticed that
                        other dignitaries had arrived; a few of these wore upon their heads gold
                        fillets with bright feathers, and one carried in his hand a broad flint
                        knife.
                    The gates opened,--Valdivia and four of his companions, the largest and
                        stoutest of the company, were selected and led forth, they knew not whither,
                        through a silent and respectful multitude.
                    An hour afterwards those who remained saw their companions dragged naked up
                        the steep steps of the pyramid. The image of a god, grotesquely shaped in
                        clay, was carried before them, and placed upon the large stone on top, and
                        one after another each of the captives was stretched on the smaller stone by
                        four of the long-robed priests, while a fifth threw over his neck a wooden
                        yoke, shaped like a snake, pressing it down to strangle him, and a sixth,
                        more richly arrayed than the rest, opened the breast of the victim with a
                        knife, and tore out his heart, which was held, still smoking and
                        palpitating, up to the sun, and then dashed in the face of the idol. After
                        the sacrifice, the body of each of the slaughtered men was cast down the steep sides of the pyramid, and
                        borne away by attendants who were in waiting below.
                    More horrible still was the scene that followed; for the prisoners could see
                        upon tables in the open square, amid the venison and wild fowl and bread and
                        wine and honey, a new, strange viand, more eagerly devoured than any other
                        by the brutal multitude that sat, crowned with garlands, at the
                        festival.
                    So this was to be the end of their captivity! And when would it come to those
                        who were still alive? How long would the bloody festival continue? The
                        survivors observed that the feast was followed by a drunken orgy in which
                        all the men took part, even their own guards, to whom wine and food had been
                        given in abundance.
                    They now saw their chance for escape. Hitherto they had made no attempt of
                        the sort, because a wandering life in the wilderness had seemed as much to
                        be dreaded as the evils of bondage. But now, with death staring them in the
                        face, they must act and act quickly. Their keepers had fallen into a heavy
                        sleep. One of the captives, Gonzalo Guerrero, a rough sailor, gnawed asunder the cord which bound the hands of
                        Aguilar, and the priest, thus freed from his fetters, released his
                        companions. Seizing the weapons of their guards, the Spaniards waited until
                        nightfall had shrouded the village, then, tearing open the gate, they rushed
                        into the open square in front of it. Happily they found amid the drunken
                        throng none who were able to capture them, and they ran at full speed to the
                        nearest thickets. Some women followed for a time, screaming and pelting them
                        with stones, but the fugitives were soon lost in the darkness. Later in the
                        night the moon rose and by its aid they struggled on until they deemed
                        themselves safe from pursuit, when they took refuge in a small cavern hidden
                        in a thick grove and awaited the coming of the morning.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    THE FUGITIVES
                    GLAD though they were to escape their present doom, when
                        they reflected upon their condition, they found it pitiful enough. What hope
                        was there that they could ever rejoin their countrymen? They supposed that
                        the region where they had landed was a vast island, in which, even if they
                        should escape the doom of their companions, they must remain prisoners
                        forever. They had taken bows and arrows from their keepers and they could
                        make others for themselves. Birds of every kind were abundant,--turkey,
                        quail, and pheasants as well as larger game, wild hogs and deer,--and they
                        believed that they could always find food in the wilderness. Their chief
                        fear was of the lack of water, for they noticed that there were no streams
                        in the forest, and although it was still the
                        rainy season, and there were occasional pools for present use, the fugitives
                        were filled with dread as to what would happen when the dry season should
                        begin. They determined therefore not to rest until they had found some lake
                        or river which would assure them a constant supply.
                    They resolved to travel by night, the better to avoid discovery. In the
                        daytime they would hide in the forest, going forth only in pursuit of
                        food.
                    Thus they wandered for many weeks, but found no lake nor river. They made
                        rude hammocks and they built each day out of leaves and branches a shelter
                        against sun and rain. They had a plentiful supply of game, but they suffered
                        greatly on account of the unwholesome climate. First one and then another
                        was seized with the fever so prevalent in the low-lands of the tropics, and
                        the sickness of one often detained the others for many days. They proceeded
                        with great caution from the fear of meeting bands of natives or of coming
                        suddenly upon some Indian town, and for a long time they eluded observation.
                        One day, however, while two of their number were lying ill, the others, who were hunting in the neighbourhood, were seen by
                        an Indian who brought the news back to his village. The same night the
                        Spaniards were surrounded, and after a short struggle all were made
                        prisoners again.
                    They were distributed as slaves among the chief men of the community, and in
                        many ways their fate seemed more cruel than during their earlier captivity.
                        They were fed scantily and compelled to work at the hardest and most
                        degrading tasks. They were cruelly beaten, their clothing and all that they
                        had saved from the wreck were taken from them, even the crucifix of Aguilar,
                        although the priest was allowed to keep his breviary. They were threatened
                        with death and torture whenever they failed to do the bidding of their
                        masters. They were pinioned each night by the wrists to strong stakes driven
                        into the ground. Little mercy was shown them even in sickness, and during
                        the weary months that followed, one after another succumbed to fever and
                        suffering until all but three had perished.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    GUERRERO A\ND AGUILAR
                    GUERRERO and Aguilar, the two captives who had fallen to
                        the lot of Ahkin Xooc, the chief, fared better than the rest. Their master
                        died soon after they were taken, and they became the slaves of Taxmar, his
                        successor.
                    Once when an embassy set out to make a league of friendship with Nachan Can,
                        the neighbouring chief of Chatemal, Guerrero was sent as a gift, with copal,
                        cacao, cotton cloth, and Indian damsels. He soon became useful to his new
                        master--he was dextrous in making tools and weapons, he was skilful with bow
                        and arrow, and best of all he aided his chief by a well-laid plan of attack
                        against a tribe which was at war with Chatemal. His master won the battle,
                        wherein much booty and many prisoners were
                        taken, and the grateful Nachan Can now commanded Guerrero to be baptised
                        according to the Maya rites, and to wed one of the chief maidens of the
                        tribe--a buxom damsel, not quite such a one as he might have chosen in his
                        native town of Palos, but a girl strong, lithe, agile, and good-humoured--by
                        far the most palatable morsel among the maidens of her race.
                    Guerrero was thrown into great confusion by this command. His refusal would
                        no doubt awaken the religious zeal of his offended master, and Nachan Can
                        might well deem it his duty to devote his captive to the gods with other
                        prisoners who were to be sacrificed at a coming festival.
                    The old sailor had been a sad dog during his roving life, and was not ready
                        to die. Still he had some qualms of conscience at turning his back upon the
                        saints, the angels, the Virgin, and the Holy Trinity. But then, during the
                        past few months what had the saints, the angels, the Virgin, and the Holy
                        Trinity done for him? Why not seize the present opportunity for life and
                        comfort? This baptism and wedding were mere forms, he could make what mental
                        reser- vations he pleased, and if he should
                        ever get out of that wretched country, he would repent with all his heart
                        and God would surely forgive him. If not, he would have at least a few years
                        of grace before perdition.
                    Such were the sophistries of his unlettered mind. Life is sweet even in
                        Yucatan.
                    So he went through the baptismal ceremony with his secret reservations, he
                        took to himself the dusky princess and he became a great man of the
                        tribe.
                    But a downward step is not easily re-taken. He had indeed professed the faith
                        of the Mayas, but he had not yet given those unalterable proofs of his
                        sincerity which public opinion demanded. He must be tatooed! He must wear in
                        ears and lips and nostrils the badges of his exalted rank!
                    So at last he underwent that painful process which would sever all hope of
                        restoration to his kindred. His cheeks were decorated with the symbols of
                        the strange religion--the sun, mystically portrayed in yellow and Kukulcan,
                        the "serpent bedecked with feathers" worshipping. Heavy
                        gold rings adorned his features. At last he had become beautiful and godlike
                        !
                    
                    He lived many years; children were born to him who inherited their
                        father's talents and their mother's piety--for still it
                        was observed that the father lacked zeal when he took part in the elaborate
                        ceremonials and bloody rites of the people of Chatemal.
                    Some years afterwards, when Cortes (whose ships lay off the coast of Yucatan
                        before his descent into Mexico) sent by a secret messenger a letter offering
                        ransom for the Spanish captives, the old sailor had many pangs of regret,
                        yet his lot had now been cast irrevocably with the tribe. He could not go
                        home again without becoming an object of derision. Moreover, his wife and
                        children with many tears besought him not to leave them, so he remained, and
                        when at last he died, as we shall relate hereafter, let us hope that the
                        good Lord, accepting his final penitence, allowed him to atone by a short
                        stay in purgatory for a life of heresy born of such dire necessity.
                    The career of Aguilar, who had remained with Taxmar, was much more edifying.
                        The poor priest, bereft even of his crucifix, was in sore straits, but had
                        not his beloved Mother Church told him that after all it was the heart and not the symbol which was the important
                        matter for salvation? Each morning he might be seen upon his knees in prayer
                        adoring an invisible deity, and when they threw him upon his face before
                        their gods, he always cast his eyes above the horrible idols and seemed to
                        look for succour to the skies.
                    Taxmar, however, was a man of sense; he worshipped the gods for what they
                        could give him, nothing more, and seeing that oftentimes his sacrifices to
                        Acanum brought him no game, and his offerings to Chaac brought him no crops,
                        he had been filled with doubt as to the power of these deities to bring
                        game, crops, and other essentials to happiness. Sometimes the gods would
                        help him, but again they brought sorrow upon his people, so Taxmar began to
                        look upon the strange faith of his captive with a skeptic's
                        tolerance. Perhaps the Christian's God was as good as his own; why
                        then should he not suffer his slave to indulge in this harmless worship
                        ?
                    Aguilar, like Guerrero, turned out to be a useful man. He served his chief
                        with meekness and zeal. He was brave in battle and wise in council. The
                        high-priest of the tribe indeed had besought
                        Taxmar to offer the stranger to the gods, and make an end of his silly
                        superstitions, but Aguilar craftily said to his master:
                    "Thou canst do with me as thou wilt, but thou art far too wise to
                        destroy one who is wholly devoted to thee."
                    So the cacique refused to part with him, preferring the certain services of
                        his captive to the whimsical favors of uncertain deities. There are men who
                        are like this to-day.
                    Then the high-priest talked of treachery and told the chief that the virtue
                        of Aguilar was a pretence. There was one thing that neither of them could
                        understand. The Spaniard had always kept aloof from women. Surely this must
                        be deceit! So a scheme was devised to test him. Taxmar sent the captive with
                        a beautiful young slave girl to fish in the early morning in a distant lake.
                        They were to spend the night upon its borders, and the girl had strict
                        orders to beset the poor priest with the same temptation which the Devil
                        once prepared for good St. Anthony. The night was cold, but Aguilar kindled
                        a fire and slept alone upon the beach some distance from the single hammock in which he had wrapped the
                        maiden in warm skins. On their return she told to wondering ears the story
                        of his strange behaviour, and so great became the confidence of the chief,
                        that when Taxmar went to war he intrusted the priest with the management of
                        his household--his wife, his slaves, and his children.
                    Years passed and a messenger arrived with Cortes' letter wound in
                        the tresses of his hair. The heart of the poor exile leaped for joy, and he
                        besought his master to accept the proffered ransom and let him go. He
                        prevailed, and setting out with the messenger, he reached the spot whither
                        Cortes had sent Ordaz, his lieutenant, with three small vessels to wait for
                        the wanderers. Ordaz had already departed, but Cortes was still at the
                        island of Cozumel, a few leagues from the coast. Aguilar hired a canoe with
                        six oarsmen and they landed near the ships of the great captain. Here they
                        were seized and brought before the commander. The poor priest, in aboriginal
                        nakedness, with long hair and skin as brown as that of his companions, was
                        taken for an Indian like the rest. He threw himself upon the ground, and in broken Castilian (for he had almost
                        forgotten his native tongue) he besought the protection of his countryman.
                        Cortes welcomed him, gave him new garments, inquired with tenderness after
                        his companions, and then carried the exile with him upon his campaign for
                        the conquest of the Aztec kingdom.*
                    
                        * Amid many conflicting accounts
                            of the reception of Aguilar by Cortes, I have chosen that of Bernal
                            Diaz, who was present. Aguiar afterwards became
                            "regidor" of the City of Mexico.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    SANDOVAL
                    THE Spanish chronicles speak of Guerrero and Aguilar as the
                        only survivors of the castaways in Yucatan. But there was another--Pedro de
                        Sandoval, a distant relative of that companion of Cortes whose name has
                        become famous in the history of the Conquest of Mexico. Sandoval was one of
                        those who had been captured by the tribe of Ahkin Xooc, and in the
                        distribution of the captives he had fallen to the portion of the Indian who
                        had first discovered the Spaniards. His fate was harder than that of those
                        who had been allotted to the chief, for he was put to the most menial tasks
                        and was scantily fed and poorly housed. But during his captivity of nearly
                        two years he acquired a thorough knowledge of the language of the country.
                        At last he fell ill of a fever, and so
                        miserable was his condition that when one morning he was no longer seen, it
                        was said that, like the others who had perished from disease and hardship,
                        he too was dead, and the mound was shown under which he had been buried.
                    The fact was, however, that Sandoval, seeing his comrades perishing around
                        him, had resolved to take his chances in the forest rather than bear longer
                        a hopeless captivity. An opportunity occurred one night, when his wrists had
                        been insecurely fastened and the Indians about him were asleep. He stole
                        forth from the village unobserved, taking nothing with him that he had not
                        brought into the world, yet even thus, happy in his liberty.
                    The joy of youth had come to him with returning health (for the fever had
                        passed away), and a free life, even with the deer and wild-cat, seemed
                        better than the bondage from which he had fled. Making himself a primitive
                        bow from the saplings and tendrils of the forest, and fashioning rude arrows
                        from the straight twigs and sharp stones in his path, he was able, with nuts
                        and wild fruits and abundant game, to provide for the necessities of nature. There were many dangers in such life,
                        but what was dangerby the side of slavish misery? He wandered aimlessly from
                        day today, avoiding all pathways and all signs of human habitation. If he
                        could have had a comrade in his wild life he would have been content !
                    One peril, however, greater than all others, more deadly than jaguar or
                        reptile now beset him--the lack of water. At the time of his escape the
                        rainy season was just over. The pools which he encountered in the forests
                        became rarer and shallower, and at last they were wholly dry.
                    He wandered for days and found not a drop to quench his intolerable thirst.
                        He killed a deer, and with mad eagerness drank its blood, leaving its flesh
                        untasted. He tried to follow the tracks of the wild beasts on their way to
                        water, but they crossed each other everywhere, and he would thread for hours
                        a tangled labyrinth only to lose it in the end; for he was unskilled in
                        tracing foot-prints in the wilderness.
                    At last, on one broiling day, while struggling, faint from thirst, through
                        the dense undergrowth, he saw, a little way ahead of him, what seemed a small opening in the woods. On
                        reaching it, he found a great orifice, perhaps a hundred feet across and
                        nearly circular in shape, which proved to be the mouth of a huge cavern,
                        still larger in dimensions, that yawned beneath him. He leaned over the
                        edge, and far below he saw plainly by the light of the vertical sun
                        streaming into the abyss, a pool of clear, light-green water, in which fish
                        were darting to and fro.
                    That sight was more maddening to him than the cup of Tantalus. His parched
                        tongue was hanging from his mouth, his eyes were bursting from their
                        sockets, his brain was whirling in flame, and yet there was a cool refuge
                        from the heat--shelter, water, restoration--sparkling a hundred feet below
                        him, seemingly as inaccessible as the wells of his native city across the
                        sea; for as he skirted the margin of the opening, he found that it was
                        simply the top of an irregular dome, impossible to scale or to descend. On
                        one side, indeed, vines, bespangled with bright tropical flowers crept over
                        the mouth of the cavern and hung in matted masses down from the edge, but
                        below their extreme reach the gap was so great
                        that he could not leap into the shining water, and if he did, how could he
                        ever climb again those arching walls of rock? A living death would be the
                        price of his short-lived enjoyment.
                    But his great need lent wings to his invention. The sight of the tendrils
                        that hung from the opening gave him the thought that he might find others in
                        the neighbourhood with which to reach the pool below. He saw many vines
                        encircling the trees around him, but none long enough for his purpose. He
                        began, however, to disentangle them, hoping that by connecting three or
                        four, he might construct natural rope for his descent. After some hours he
                        had spliced several of these vines together in such a way that it seemed
                        possible to reach the bottom. Winding one of them around the trunk of a tree
                        that stood near, and throwing the others over the edge of the orifice, he
                        saw the lower end of his rope trailing in the water below and frightening
                        away the fishes that were swimming where it fell. But he had not been able
                        to join the vines securely by the thin withes he had gathered for that
                        purpose, and there was great danger that the
                        rope might break somewhere in his descent, or that its sections might fall
                        apart after he had reached the bottom. Still his need was so great that he
                        resolved to make the trial.
                    Swinging himself from the margin, he climbed down, hand over hand, and in a
                        few minutes he felt the cool water about his ankles. Thereupon he let go his
                        frail ladder and plunged into the pool.
                    What joy to swim in its liquid depths, to drink his fill from the clear
                        waters, to lie in calm repose upon the broad ledge of rock around its
                        border! He had no doubt, if his rope would but hold together, that he could
                        climb again to the mouth of the cave. The vines were twisted and gnarled and
                        would furnish in many places an excellent foothold where he could rest in
                        his ascent.
                    So, wearied with his long efforts, he made a rough bed of some grass and
                        weeds that grew on a scanty patch of earth close to the edge of the water,
                        and fell into a long, deep slumber.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    THE SENOTE
                    WHEN he awoke, it seemed as if evening were coming on, but
                        he noticed that the shadows lay in the opposite direction from that toward
                        which they had been creeping when he lay down beside the pool. It was plain
                        then that he had outslept the night. He began now at leisure to inspect his
                        surroundings. The dome above him was irregular and somewhat oblong. The
                        bottom of the cave was perhaps two hundred yards long and more than half as
                        wide, the pool in the middle occupying scarcely as much space as the
                        shelving rocks around it. It was, however, of great depth, and although no
                        stream could be seen flowing into it or out of it, there seemed to be a
                        slight current coming from some source still deeper in the entrails of the earth. The water was very clear, and its
                        faint green colour was evidently due, not merely to the way in which the
                        light through the opening above was rejected by the limestone walls, but
                        also to some peculiar qualities of its own. The matted vines, sparkling with
                        wild flowers, hung in rich festoons down from the orifice. A few palms and
                        cacti leaned over the edge, and above these there were light clouds chasing
                        each other swiftly across the deep blue of the sky. The rope by which he had
                        descended was still dangling above the pool, swayed this way and that by a
                        light breeze which seemed, he thought, to blow from one side of the cavern
                        toward the opening above, for the leaves of the vines would sometimes curl
                        upward as if pressed from below.
                    After another deep draught from the waters of the pool and another plunge
                        into its cool depths, Sandoval prepared to ascend, for a sharp morning
                        appetite, which there was no means of satisfying in the cavern, had followed
                        his long slumber. But when he examined more narrowly his rope of vines, he
                        made a dreadful discovery. The constant swaying had gradually uncoiled and loosened the fastening of the nearest link
                        of his precious chain, and it seemed as though the lowest section of the
                        rope was soon to fall. Perhaps it would still bear his weight. He must act
                        quickly if at all. Seizing the vine as it swung near the edge of the water,
                        he began to climb with great activity, but before he reached the critical
                        fastening, his worst fears were realised. The sections parted and he fell,
                        sinking deep into the pool below.
                    Struggling to the surface, he sat down on the bank breathless and despairing,
                        a prey to the gloomiest forebodings. His fate seemed even more terrible now
                        than when he had stood in expectation of sacrifice, for then at least the
                        last pang would soon have been over and there would have been companionship
                        in suffering. But thus to die alone, to undergo the prolonged agony of
                        starvation--the thought of it stifled and choked him. Perhaps he could
                        fashion from the contents of the cavern some implement to catch those
                        beautiful creatures which swam and sported in the lusty joy of life before
                        his eyes. But where was the net, the hook, the bait wherewith to make them
                        his prey? He walked again and again around his
                        prison searching everywhere, but there was no succour.
                    Then another hope toyed with his sufferings. Whence came that soft wind which
                        blew toward the entrance of his prison house? There must be some other way
                        to the outside world. He tracked the source of the breeze to a long cleft in
                        the rocks on one side of the cave. But the cleft was not wider than the
                        breadth of a hand--there was no egress there.
                    Suddenly he noticed on the ground a curving track, where the rock seemed
                        smoother than elsewhere, as if it had been worn into a path, perhaps by men,
                        perhaps by wild beasts upon their way to water. Here then was the hope of
                        rescue. Let him follow the track and he might discover the door of his
                        prison. He found indeed that the pathway led behind a rock so much like the
                        walls of the cavern that the opening could not be seen until he was but a
                        few steps away.
                    Without knowing what was before him, he plunged into the darkness. Emerging
                        from a narrow passage, he walked upon a still narrower ledge at the side of
                        a deep chasm. On his left was a jagged wall and on his right he could hear the gurgling of water far below him. Anywhere
                        upon the way a panther might meet him, or some human being more pitiless
                        than the beasts of the forest. Yet what were such dangers by the side of the
                        terrible fate from which he fled?
                    He made his way cautiously, yet swiftly, feeling with his feet for the smooth
                        path in the rock which was always distinguishable from the rougher surface
                        on either side. He had not gone far, however, when he seemed to hear the
                        confused sound of voices, and then there appeared in the distance the
                        glimmer of a bickering light. Involuntarily he turned back and in a few
                        moments had again reached the open cavern.
                    Here he began to look hurriedly for some place of concealment; there was none
                        save at the farther end close to the limestone wall; there a little
                        promontory of rock some two feet high projected into the pool and offered
                        shelter. The water was quite deep at that point, and if he kept his body
                        submerged the small jutting ledge would hide his face. He betook himself at
                        once to this place of refuge and there waited.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    THE WATER CARRIERS
                    THE confused murmur of voices was heard again; then it
                        broke forth into a low song.
                    But music, which everywhere else upon God's footstool brings comfort
                        and delight to him who hears it, was laden with stern forebodings to the
                        castaway. For music was the prelude to those horrible religious rites in
                        which his own part was the doom of sacrifice. It seemed to him, however,
                        that these voices were softer than the harsh tones of the priests at the
                        dreadful orgies he once had witnessed, and peering through a crack in the
                        limestone, he saw, entering the cavern at the opposite side, a file of
                        Indian maidens, each with a water jar upon her shoulder--all but one, for
                        the damsel who led them, more richly apparelled than the rest, was free from
                        any burden.
                    
                    The others were arrayed in the clothing common to the unmarried women of the
                        higher classes--short white skirts embroidered at the lower edge, and loose
                        sleeveless tunics covering the waist. Their heavy black hair was combed in
                        tresses; a part of it was wound around their heads and decorated with
                        flowers and small bright feathers, while another part hung in long braids
                        down their backs. They carried their jars to the pool, they splashed their
                        feet in the clear water, they filled the vessels and set them close to the
                        margin; then they sat down upon the flat rock to talk. They had also brought
                        with them fruit and cakes of corn which they distributed and began to
                        eat.
                    It was clear now that this pool was one of the "senotes"
                        which furnished to some city in the neighbourhood a part at least of its
                        supply of drinking water, and that these girls had come to perform their
                        morning task of fetching the water to their homes.
                    They all talked at once and so confused was the chatter that Sandoval could
                        understand but little of what they said. But he noticed that they addressed
                        their remarks chiely to the tallest of their number, the maiden who had first entered the cavern, and that
                        there was something said about a coming marriage festival. There was much
                        laughter in their girlish prattle, but he observed that the maiden to whom
                        they talked listened gravely and spoke but little.
                    They had not finished their repast when one of them produced from the folds
                        of her dress a trinket, a grotesque figure curiously moulded in clay, which
                        she showed to the tall damsel who sat in their midst. Another maiden,
                        sitting near, tried to seize the trinket, and the first sprang quickly to
                        her feet and shot off like an arrow, pursued by her companion, while the
                        rest watched them with much laughter and many exclamations.
                    They flew around the margin of the pool and were coming dangerously near the
                        place where Sandoval was hidden. The second girl rapidly overtook the
                        fugitive, who at last plunged into the water to save her treasure. From this
                        point she perceived, just in front of her, the bearded face of the
                        stranger.
                    "A god! Some dreadful god!" she screamed, and recoiling in
                        terror, she climbed back to the rocks, and ran head- long to the entrance of the cave; then seizing one of
                        the lighted fagots left there when the maidens entered the arched chamber,
                        she vanished. The others were close upon her heels, and soon the great dome
                        was empty. All had disappeared.
                    No, not all--Sandoval perceived that one had remained; the tall maiden, the
                        mistress of the band, had risen to her feet and was looking quietly and
                        gravely toyard the corner of the cavern from which had come the startling
                        apparition.
                    To thee, O reader, who halt been trained in the worship of a God of love, the
                        cry of terror at the sight of a deity may seem strange and unnatural. But
                        many of the Maya gods were of a sterner race; they were solemn avengers
                        pitiless tyrants they thirsted for man's blood--they were hungry
                        for human flesh; they inflicted all the sufferings of earth--they presided
                        over the torments of hell. To confront their superhuman power needed more
                        courage than to meet the foe in battle.
                    Yet the Maya girl was undaunted. Why should she fear the gods? She had not
                        harmed them. She had laid constantly upon their altars her offerings of
                        fruits and flowers. Nay, why should she fear
                        anything? For she was the daughter of the king. So she waited until the
                        strange god should appear.
                    Concealment was no longer possible. Sandoval came out from his hiding-place.
                        He swam across the pool, and emerged partially from the water in front of
                        the maiden, holding out his hand in supplication.
                    "Come forth," she said, and he rose and stood before
                        her.
                    Reader, I blush to tell thee how he looked. For he was quite devoid of those
                        ornaments with which young men are wont to bedeck themselves when they first
                        appear before ladies of beauty and rank. He had naturally made no
                        preparation for this unexpected meeting. He had not even a girdle of leaves,
                        and he could not, like Ulysses, snatch a bough from some tree near by ere he
                        should supplicate his Nausicaa, for there was no tree at hand. He could show
                        his modesty by nothing but a blush, and to the credit of his Christian
                        breeding be it said, that among the mingled emotions that possessed him,
                        shame was uppermost, and he blushed to the roots of his hair.
                    
                    His unclad condition was not, however, in the maiden's thought. To
                        those who live where, with the men at least, clothing is rather an ornament
                        than a necessity, it is not to be expected that its absence should call for
                        special observation.
                    But he who stood before her was indeed a strange being, such as she had never
                        seen. His fair hair, waving above a broad forehead, his ruddy face, his
                        light skin, browned indeed by exposure to the sun, but quite unlike that of
                        her own people, and strangest of all his full curling beard and his blue
                        eyes--all these things made him appear to her as no mere man, but as a being
                        of quite another kind. Perhaps the blush which overspread his countenance
                        was a mark of his anger that she had dared thus to confront a deity.
                    But if he was a god, where was the plumage which the gods always wore? What
                        was the meaning of the unhealed wounds, of marks that looked like the scars
                        of a lash, why the traces of the thorns and insects which had tormented him?
                        Could the gods be thus defiled? A bow he had indeed--this he had kept
                        constantly slung over his shoulder with a few
                        arrows, for it was his one means of procuring food during his sojourn in the
                        wilderness--but such a bow! It was merely a rough sapling fastened by long
                        tendrils. Her own maidens could make a better one. Would a god hunt with
                        such an implement?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    THE FIRST ENCOUNTER
                    WHILE the heart of the girl was filled with wonder at the
                        form and face of him who stood before her, the eyes of the wanderer rested
                        upon a vision which was never to pass away from the recollections of his
                        life. Her long black tresses were bound around a shapely head and combed
                        over a brow, not broad indeed, but high and thoughtful. Of her face all that
                        he saw were two great luminous eyes, "dark as the night, yet
                        shining like the stars," which gazed on him with calm, unconscious
                        fearlessness. She was tall indeed when gauged by the standard of her people,
                        yet only of middle stature if measured by our own. Her complexion, though
                        darker than that of the Caucasian, was very light when compared with the swarthy colour of the men of her race. Her form
                        was slender, of perfect grace and symmetry, and in the loose garments which
                        hung about her in full folds she would have been no unworthy model for a
                        sculptor's chisel. Her skirt, folded around her waist, fell to her
                        ankles. At the lower edge it was delicately embroidered in small geometric
                        forms, while a short tunic, falling to her knees, was decorated in the same
                        manner, both around the bottom and about her neck and arms, which were left
                        bare. Over her shoulders hung a mantle of many colours, which served as a
                        light shawl in the day-time and as a covering while she slept at night.
                        There were bracelets of gold upon her wrists and ankles, and around her
                        throat a necklace studded with opals, whose changing hues glowed like the
                        clouds of sunset. Sandals of deerskin wrought with iridescent feather-work
                        covered her tiny feet.
                    Sandoval did not of course examine these details with critical eye; he only
                        saw the rich beauty of the girl and of her garments and her stately
                        presence, for she stood before him, one foot slightly advanced, not haughty but erect, looking in her virgin
                        majesty the queen she was, but still a queen unconscious of her royalty.
                    Meanwhile she gazed upon the wanderer, not quite able to guess from his
                        strange appearance whether he were god, man, or devil. In her doubt she
                        chose the plainest and directest way to knowledge,--she asked him.
                    "Art thou the god of this senote or of the stream that feeds it? Who
                        art thou?"
                    The answer came in choking accents, so broken that she could hardly
                        understand them:
                    " No god--only a man--poor, hungry, with no friends--a stranger.
                        Pity me!"
                    And he sank upon his knees, and picking from the ground a morsel of earth, he
                        brought it to his heart in token of submission, after the manner of the men
                        of her own race.
                    Then a change came slowly over her countenance. The look of dignity with
                        which she had dared to meet even the frown of a deity was gone, and in its
                        place a smile of compassion stole over her features.
                    Bending, she raised our hero from the ground,
                        led him to a low ledge of rock and bade him sit, while (since real pity is
                        always practical) she gathered the remnants of the breakfast which had been
                        left by her companions in their flight and set them on the rock beside him.
                        And she did all this (strange conquest of a passion that wells unquenchably
                        in woman's breast) without asking him a single question! But when
                        he had eaten the repast she sat beside him, and looking full into his face
                        (for she was unlike the maidens of her race who cast their eyes upon the
                        ground when they address a stranger), she asked:
                    "Of what country art thou? Why hast thou come to a land where thou
                        hast no friends? What has befallen thee?"
                    "My country," he answered, "is far across the sea
                        where the sun rises. I came with many comrades in a boat with wings borne by
                        the wind. For three moons we journeyed, till we reached an island where
                        there are towns built by my people. Here we tarried for a time, and then set
                        forth again sailing toward the noonday over the bright waters, until we came
                        to a new land where there was much toil and suffering. At last our chief sent me with others back to the
                        island to bring him succour, but on the way a cruel storm drove us upon your
                        shores. Five of my companions were sacrificed, the rest fled. We were seized
                        again and held in hard captivity. Others perished, but I escaped and
                        wandered through the forest. Thirsting unto death, I climbed down to this
                        cave. There are the broken vines by which I reached it. Thou knowest the
                        rest; behold me here, thy slave." And he sank to the ground and
                        kissed the hem of her garment.
                    "I will help thee," she said in a quiet voice.
                        "Come with me."
                    And taking his hand she led him forth through the narrow entrance. The
                        torches had been carried off by the maidens in their flight, so the two
                        groped their way together through the darkness. She knew the path, but they
                        crept cautiously, for there were sharp precipices and deep gulfs and rocky
                        steps, and at one place they crossed a bridge of logs over a narrow gorge.
                        At last a faint line of light greeted their eyes and they came forth into a
                        broad chamber with a low doorway leading to the upper world.
                    At the side of this entrance there was a deep
                        recess where one might well be hidden from observation.
                    "Rest here," she said, and taking the mantle from her
                        shoulders she wrapped it around him; then adding, "I will soon come
                        back to thee," she disappeared through the thick palmettos and
                        lofty cacti which bordered the winding path outside the entrance of the
                        cave.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VllI
                    MEDITATION
                    THE grove through which she returned to the king's
                        palace lay in a valley between two low ranges of hills. The rainy season was
                        just over and the foliage was still green above the dense growth of copse
                        and thicket arose multitudes of graceful palms; the majestic ceiba, with its
                        huge trunk covered with bark like an elephant's skin, spread its
                        innumerable branches high and wide, while great numbers of air-plants,
                        countless wild flowers, a labyrinth of interlacing vines, great cacti of
                        many varieties and vast dimensions--some taller than the trees
                        themselves--added to the confusion and oppressive luxuriance of the
                        jungle.
                    The princess walked slowly along the winding path, deeply absorbed in
                        thought. She had promised to succour the stranger and this she would do at whatever sacrifice. But how?
                        She might keep him for a time in the depths of the senote, but he could not
                        stay there forever. If she went to him alone her absence would be noted and
                        must be explained. Besides, how could the king's daughter bear food
                        to him with her own hands? And what servant or companion could she trust
                        with her secret? But if he came forth from the cavern and the men of the
                        city should find him, his fate would be certain death; for the king, her
                        father, was diligent and punctual in fulfilling his obligations to the gods.
                        She shuddered with fear at the thought of such doom.
                    What then was there in this poor wanderer that should fill her heart with
                        painful apprehensions? What was it that brought to her mind as never before
                        the horrors of human sacrifice, with the blue eyes of one victim looking
                        helplessly to her for succour? What magic was it which poured into an ear
                        that had never hearkened to suggestions of craft or cunning, the poisoned
                        counsel to save him even by deceit? Nay, she did not harbour a doubt whether
                        the end would justify the means, but forthwith devised a most Jesuitical
                        plan for his salvation.
                    
                    The fact that the stranger had been taken for a god gave her the clew. She
                        would keep him in the cave till he was sound and strong, bringing to him all
                        he might need in order to come before her people in the likeness of a god.
                        Then he should seek her hand in marriage, and she would be the bride of the
                        new deity. After that what harm could befall him?
                    Yet what of Canek, the lord of Peten-Itza? What of that powerful alliance
                        between the tribes--her father's cherished hope? She put the
                        thought from her, yet it returned with steady persistence.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    HISTORY
                    WE must now go back a little in our story to the early life
                        of the princess and the history of her people. The traditions of Yucatan
                        tell us of various migrations into the peninsula. The first of these--Cenial or "the little descent" they
                        called it--was from the east across the water, perhaps from Cuba or some
                        neighbouring island, and the legend is that as the people came, their god
                        opened for them twelve pathways through the sea. A long time afterwards
                        there followed another migration from the south-west; Nohenial, "the great descent" it was called.
                    The first hero-king was Zamnà, the civiliser, high-priest, and lawgiver, who
                        brought in the hieratic writing and taught the people the art of medicine.
                        Like Adam he gave names to the things around
                        him--not indeed to beasts and birds, but to the bays, the straits, the
                        capes, the senotes, and the towns. He was the leader of the Itzas and he
                        laid the foundations of Itzamal, where even to-day his colossal face may be
                        seen moulded in stucco at the side of a lofty pyramid. He also established
                        the city of Chichen-Itza. The religion he taught was simple and gracious.
                        The sun and stars were objects of adoration and human sacrifices were
                        unknown. After he died he was worshipped as a deity--like great men
                        everywhere among rude peoples.
                    Long afterwards there came from the west another hero, Kukulcan,
                        "the feathered serpent." He came bare-headed with nineteen
                        bearded followers, and led a life of marvellous purity. First he ruled over
                        Chichen-Itza till the nobles called him to the throne of the kingdom and
                        invited him to Mayapan,* "the Maya Banner," which now became the
                        capital of the land. Kukulcan moved thither and reigned prosperously for ten
                        years, at the end of which 
                            * A city so called from the
                                national standard of richly wrought feather-work which was kept
                                there, the city thus becoming the rallying point of the entire
                                confederacy.
                        
                        he gave up the crown and taking the road to the
                        coast, followed by a few disciples, he embarked and nothing more was ever
                        heard of him. Then he too took his place among the gods.
                    These were the heroic days of the race, so far back among the mists of time
                        that no man can say how much of the legend is historic and how much is
                        mythological.
                    The people chose his successor from the family of the Cocomes, great lords of
                        Yucatan, who thus established an illustrious dynasty.*
                    A native document, thought to be reliable, tells us that in one of the
                        earlier centuries of the Christian era there was still another migration
                        from the south, led by the Tutul Xius, a race of warlike kings who, after
                        many wanderings, established their capital not far from Mayapan and 
                            * The seven sovereigns who
                                successively reigned after him continued to give the country an
                                excellent govemment, and tradition tells of the blessings which they
                                conferred upon their subjects and the monuments which they
                                built--the fountains, reservoirs, baths, roads, palaces, temples,
                                schools, hospitals for the old and infirm, retreats for widows and
                                orphans, halting places for travellers--such were the titles of the
                                Cocomes to public gratitude.
                        near the southern slope of a low sierra,
                        that stretched across the peninsula from east to west. This city they called
                        Uxmal, and they embellished it with stately palaces and temples.
                    For a long time there was a triple confederacy among the lords of Mayapan,
                        Uxmal, and Chichen-Itza, in which the leadership was accorded to Mayapan.
                        But at last the Cocome kings became proud and oppressive *; serious dissensions arose 
                            *First of the tyrants was
                                Ahtubtun, "spitter of precious stones," who wrung
                                harsh tribute from the people and squandered it in luxuries and in
                                gifts to favourites. Then followed Aban, who added to his nme the
                                august title of Kinehahau, "Child of the Sun."
                                Aban moved with his court to Kimpech (now Campeche) upon the
                                seaboard, and put himself in communication with the princes of
                                Xicalanca, in Mexico, asking them to furnish him with armed troops,
                                so that he could silence the murmurs of his people. They made haste
                                to serve the Ahtepal (or king) by sending him several
                                "Xiquipils" or legions, each of eight thousand
                                men, well armed and disciplined. These men belonged to the Nahuatl
                                race, who were accutomed to human sacrifices, and their abominable
                                rites soon spread through the peninsula.
                            The king put to death many nobles of high rank and punished others by
                                reducing them to slavery. This was the first time that a Maya prince
                                had dared to strike at the liberty of his subjects, who had never
                                known slavery before, and who considered it more dreadful than
                                death. The people lost their affection for the Cocomes and turned
                                their eyes upon the neighbouring Tutul Xius. These princes had
                                always been mindful of the welfare of their subjects, and they now
                                won the love of the people of Mayapan, for when Aban, with his
                                foreign troops, had begun to reduce his vassals to slavery, the
                                kings of Chichen and Uxmal remonstrated and prevented the Ahtepal
                                from pursuing upon their own domains the Mayas who had there sought
                                a refuge against his tyranny.
                            At last Aban died, but the complaints were renewed against his
                                successor, Hunac Ceel, who fell into the same excesses. He brought
                                in new troops from Xica-lanca; he punished with rigour all whom he
                                suspected of complaining, and he gave his subjects no other choice
                                than revolt or abject servitude.
                            He convoked an assembly of the higher vassals of the crown, and
                                obtained from this tribunal a decree for the deposition of the lord
                                of Chichen-Itza, a thing unheard of up to that time.
                            Ulmil, the successor of the deposed prince, resolved upon vengeance,
                                and Hunac Ceel at last gave him his opportunity. He loaded his
                                subjects with new taxes; the foreign soldiers became the masters of
                                the country; the Maya lords were excluded from all places and
                                thought themselves happy if they did not fall victims to the plots
                                of the tyrant. At last they sought the aid of the kings of
                                Chichen-Itza and Uxmal, imploring deliverance, and the dynasty of
                                the Cocomes was overthrown.
                        
                        within the capital, and the lords of Uxmal now
                        saw that the moment had come to 
                        
                            UXMAL. THE NUNNERY. EAST FAҪADE, WITH HOUSE OF THE DIVINER BEYOND.
                            
                            (See page 155)
                            
                            
                        seize the sceptre of the kingdom. After a
                        bloody battle Mayapan was taken, the king and the royal household were put
                        to death, and a Tutul Xiu was, by the choice of the nobility, confirmed in
                        the title of supreme monarch.*
                    During a long period which followed; he and his successors dwelt in Uxmal in
                        more than regal state. But after an era of prosperity, a usurper, Ahcunal,
                        obtained pos- 
                            *The monarch of Uxmal now
                                devoted himself to up-rooting the abuses of the last Cocomes; he
                                restored the exiles to their homes; he set free the greater part of
                                those who had been reduced to bondage; he attempted to abolish
                                slavery altogether, but it had taken such root in the land that his
                                efforts were ineffectual; he protected the foreign mercenaries who
                                had escaped the massacre of Mayapan, and assigned to them a province
                                south of the mountains of Mani. These generous ads strengthened the
                                throne of Uxmal.
                            But among the children of the last of the Cocomes there was one who
                                by his absence from the city had escaped the massacre. The new king
                                ("The Face of Fire" as he was called) was too
                                magnanimous to visit upon this prince the crimes of his ancestors.
                                He not only suffered him to live, he also gave him as an appanage
                                the province of Zotuta. But in thus perpetuating the family of the
                                Commes, the Tutul Xius nourished in the heart of their kingdom the
                                hatred of a fallen race, and the lords of Zotuta afterwards became
                                the mortal enemies of the dynasty.
                        
                        session of the throne. Great disorders
                        followed, and when he was overthrown and the Tutul Xius were again restored
                        to power, the people of the city determined to abandon their own capital and
                        to betake themselves to Mayapan. They accordingly migrated thither, and the
                        monarchs reigned for a time in great splendour at the ancient capital.
                    But it was not long until various factions again began to contend furiously
                        with one another. Ah Xiu, the reigning sovereign (grandfather of the king
                        who dwelt in Mani at the time of our story), became the victim of a plot
                        among his vassal lords. He was driven from Mayapan and pursued from one
                        province to another; the rebel chiefs gave to the flames the great city
                        which had been the centre of his dominion and the scene of their own
                        vassalage, and the kingdom was divided into little principalities whose
                        mutual hates and jealousies accomplished the ruin of the Maya race.
                    The downfall of the kingdom took place about the middle of the fifteenth
                        century. It was followed by series of disasters. One winter night there was
                        a terrible hurricane which swept away the forests and the crops and killed great multitudes of human beings.
                        Then, after fifteen prosperous years, there was a pestilence, the Ocna Kuchil or "Sudden Death," so
                        dreadful that birds of prey came into the houses and devoured the corpses
                        which lay un-buried. Then there were sixteen years of war among the tribes,
                        and it is said that in one great battle between the contending factions
                        there perished a hundred and fifty thousand men.
                    In one of the provinces, however, a new city had been built by those who
                        remained faithful to the king. They named it Mani, "It is
                        past," for the old empire had departed and the threads of life had
                        to be taken up anew. Here a palace and temple had been erected for the
                        exiled sovereign and a faint echo of the solemn worship and imperial
                        magnificence of Uxmal and Mayapan was still preserved. The successor of Ah
                        Xiu reigned over Mani for more than forty years, and now Ahpula, his only
                        male descendant, had been for ten years upon the throne.
                    Ahpula had no son to be the heir of the kingdom. One boy had been born to
                        him, but the child had not outlived his nursing, and although the king had
                        made many sac- rifices and prayers to Ixchel,
                        yet his daughter Maya was now the only living offspring of his union with
                        the wisest and best of queens. Often indeed Ahpula had been urged to put
                        away a consort so unfruitful, but he would not part from her, for she had
                        been the love of his youth. Should Maya have a son, however, that son might
                        inherit the throne. Hence came the offer of Canek, the lord of
                        Peten-Itza,who ruled in the island city of Tayasal.* He was a prince, crafty 
                            * The story of the orgin of
                                this city is lit by the flame of romance. Another Canek, first of
                                the name, had been one ofthe lords of Chichen-Itza. He was enamoured
                                of noble maiden, Lila, "the dewdrop," and she
                                returned his love, but her hand had been promised by her father to
                                Chanbel, another lord, for whom she cared not, and the day had been
                                set for the wedding. The evening before the festival, when Lila was
                                waling in the garden in front of her father's palace, and
                                bemoaning the fate which was to part her from the man she loved,
                                suddenly, at the foot of the terrace, she saw the face of Cank, who
                                came forth for a moment from the thick copse to tell her that on the
                                morrow he would come and save her. And sure enugh in the midst of
                                the festival, while the garlands were twined around the stone pillar
                                of the temple and music resounded and the tables were spread for the
                                banquet, a great cry arose and Canek and his warriors entered and
                                seized the maiden to bear her away. Great was the tumult, for
                                Chanbel and his friends fought desperately, but Canek had his will
                                and Lila became his wife. Then Chanbel collected the warriors of his
                                tribe and there was a long strife between the rivals until Canek
                                retreated and journeyed southward till he came to a great lake and
                                established Tayasal, a new city on the island of Peten-Itzla, where
                                he dwelt in safety with his bride.
                        and warlike, who had often led wild
                        forays against the men of the north and returned with fat spoils from many a
                        battle. Twice had he wedded, but each time his wife had died without
                        offspring, and there was no heir to his dominions. Then it was that he
                        sought the hand of the daughter of Tutul Xius. As the husband of Maya he
                        would become the father of a royal line as well as ruler for life upon the
                        death of the present sovereign. Such a prospect made it well worth his while
                        to acknowledge Ahpula as his lord. So the marriage of Maya to Canek was
                        deemed by all except the princess herself a most desirable event.
                    But the a choice of a husband which the king had made for her was little to
                        the liking of his daughter. The lord of Peten-Itza, it was said, was old and
                        ugly, and among the people of Mani, with whom he had often been at war, he
                        had the reputation of great cruelty.
                    "How much better would it be," thought Maya, "to
                        become the bride of the fair stranger!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    MAYA'S SCHEME
                    SINCE the royal line was to descend through her, Maya had
                        been taught many things which were commonly withheld from the women of her
                        race. Moreover she had filled the office of "Ixnacan
                        Katun," or chief of the vestals of the Sun, whose duty it was to
                        keep alive the sacred fire in the temple of that deity, as well as to take
                        part in other religious ceremonies--to make sacrifices of fruits and flowers
                        to Ixchel, the goddess of healing, to Ixchebelyax, the goddess of painting
                        and embroidery, and even to the great Ixazalvoh, mother of the gods, who had
                        taught womankind the art of weaving.
                    This sacred sisterhood had been established in early days by a princess of
                        Uxmal, and no one who was not of royal blood could be its chief. The honour was a very great one, and the rank was
                        considered equal to the higher orders of priesthood. Indeed Zahuy Kak, the
                        first chief of the vestals, had become so eminent for her virtues that after
                        her death her name was written among those of the gods.
                    Maya had been carefully trained for her sacred dignity by the high-priest,
                        her uncle, and she had been taught the use of the hieratic characters, the
                        symbolic writing introduced by Zamnà, in which were written the ancient
                        manuscripts that recorded the history of her race.
                    The princess was deeply beloved, not only by her kindred and the vestals and
                        maidens of her train, but by the people of Mani, who called her
                        "The Morning Sunbeam," and invoked the blessings of the
                        gods upon her beautiful face as she passed among them. For she resolutely
                        refused to dwell in the seclusion of the palace, and often when she learned
                        of sickness or sorrow in the city, she went forth with her maidens (despite
                        the remonstrances of the queen-mother and once even against the command of
                        the king himself) to bring to the sufferers what relief she could, together
                            with words of kindness such as might have
                        fallen from paradise. Even the birds in the palace gardens seemed to love
                        her, for they fluttered around her as she walked, perching upon her
                        shoulders while they were fed from her hand.
                    Such was the girl of sixteen summers whom her father had named after the race
                        which his ancestors ruled during many generations, "for in
                        her," he said, "is the hope of my people." And
                        this was the maiden who for the first time in her ife was now secretly
                        nursing a scheme of guile so daring that it might well wreck the future of
                        the kingdom, all for the sake of one forlorn wanderer whom she pitied--and
                        loved.
                    To Maya's eager fancy, the plan which she had devised for the rescue
                        of the fair-haired stranger did not seem difficult. Having been taught the
                        history and mythology of her race, she knew that the gods had often appeared
                        among her people. The great Zamnà had given them their laws and taught them
                        the arts of medicine, writing, and astronomy. Kukulkan had come among them,
                        changing his serpent form to that of a man, while he reigned over them as a
                        mighty king. Moreover, had not the books of
                            Chilan-Balam,*
                        containing the prophecies of their greatest seers, already foretold that a
                        god should come from the East, across the waters? For many years they had
                        been waiting for him. She remembered the very words of the prophecy as she
                        had learned them by heart.
                    "The signal of God will appear on the heights and the cross with
                        which the world was enlightened will be shown. . . Receive your bearded
                        guests from the East, who bring the signal of the God that comes to us in
                        mercy and pity."
                    These words seemed to her to fit the case. It is true she could produce only
                            one bearded stranger from the East, and that one was
                        to be the god himself, yet this was near enough. When men are looking for
                        the accomplishment of a prophecy there 
                            *Chilan-Balam was for a long
                                time considered to be the name of a particular prophet. Dr. Brinton
                                has shown, however, that it is a generic name, that the books of
                                Chilan-Boham are books of prophecy containing also dissertations on
                                astrology, chronology, and medicine. These books are specially
                                distinguished by the name of the village or city in which they were
                                composed. The word Chilan in the Maya tongue means
                                mouth-piece, and the word Balam, originally
                                "tiger," is applied to a certain classof
                                priests.
                        
                        is no need of a very literal fulfilment to
                        satisfy them. The god was here, the maiden who had seen him behind the rock
                        would know him, and Maya herself would bring him forth from his
                        hiding-place.
                    Thou wilt ask, reader, why she did not fear the other gods, who, knowing the
                        deceit, would surely avenge their outraged dignity and inflict some terrible
                        punishment on the maid who thus imposed a counterfeit upon their
                        worshippers. But need l explain to one who knows that love is blind, that
                        she fancied they would look with pity on such a charitable fraud--nay it
                        might be they would not even learn of her wickedness? The gods know very
                        much--but surely not all things--unless men tell them! Besides, she was the
                        king's daughter and what would they do to her? Moreover, she held
                        forth a handful of maize to Zahuy Kak "The Fire Maiden"
                        and asked whether to save a life she might not tell this little harmless
                        lie? And when she counted the grains of maize lo, the number was even! The
                        goddess had consented! She was safe! So she dreamed, poor child, and foresaw
                        not the dark plots that gods and men would soon be weaving for her ruin.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    MAYA AND HER MAIDENS
                    WHEN we last saw our heroine she was still upon the pathway
                        between the senate and the king's palace. She now entered the
                        enclosure of the royal gardens which were on the slope of a hill at some
                        distance from the town. There were birds of brilliant plumage in the trees,
                        and deer sprang up at her approach and gathered about her, seeking food at
                        her hands.
                    In the midst of the garden was an artificial lake or aguada, paved with
                        stones securely cemented at the bottom and filled during the rainy season by
                        means of sluices dug around the sides of the hill. This reservoir supplied
                        the animals on the royal domain and provided irrigation during the time of
                        drouth. Its water was unwhole- some and unfit
                        to drink, however, and hence the senote from which Maya had just come had
                        been set apart for the use of the king's household. It was to fetch
                        the day's supply that the maidens (who, although of noble blood,
                        were proud to call themselves servants of the king's daughter) had
                        gone forth in the morning with their jars. In terror and amazement they had
                        returned and were waiting in trembling anxiety near the aguada. They dared not enter the palace with the news that they
                        had fled and left their mistress in the cave alone, and it was with
                        unspeakable delight that they saw her emerging from the wood.
                    "Thanks be to Ixchel, thou art safe and well. How didst thou escape
                        ?"
                    "Was he indeed a god? Didst thou speak with him? "
                    " Did he harm thee? What did he say?"
                    "Yes," she answered, "he is a god, and though he
                        harmed me not, it was well that you fled, for you are so timid that his look
                        might have stricken you with blindness. But he promised me that if I would
                        come again to worship him he would grant us many blessings--plentiful rain,
                        crops, bees, and game, nay, children too, when husbands claim our hands. He was the fairest of the gods, and kind and
                        gentle. And when I said that I would come to him again with flowers and
                        birds for sacrifice, he smiled on me, and then before my eyes he rose from
                        the deep pool and floated away in the thin air through the cave's
                        mouth up to the clouds of heaven. When next I meet him you must go with me
                        and we will bring him all a god may need--food and flowers and bright
                        raiment. But you must stay outside the cavern and I must meet him always
                        alone, until he shall bid me bring you. Tell no one what you have seen, for
                        bitter will be your punishment should my father know that you forsook
                        me."
                    So she spoke, and they willingly consented, for they loved her--and they
                        feared the punishment.
                    Then Maya bade them return with her at once to the senote for the water jars
                        which they had left in their flight. Since she had assured them that the god
                        was no longer there, they ventured to enter the cavern, though they besought
                        her to stay close beside them for their fear was very great.
                    Reaching the pool, they refilled the vessels with fresh water.
                    
                    When they had come forth once more into the grove, they observed that their
                        mistress remained behind, so they set down their jars and waited for
                        her.
                    It was some time before she appeared. She had paused at the entrance of the
                        cave to speak again to the stranger and tell him of her plan. She found him
                        hidden in the dark recess where she had left him.
                    "My maidens," she said, "took thee for a god, and
                        indeed a god with bright locks and blue eyes like thine has long been looked
                        for by my people. So I will bring thee fresh apparel, bright plumes, and
                        broidered robes. My maidens shall prepare them for thee, for they are
                        skilled in fashioning garments. They will not betray thee, for they fear
                        that my father will punish them for leaving me by the pool alone. Nor do
                        they know thy hiding-place. I told them thou hadst risen to the clouds and
                        wouldst not return until this evening when I would come and offer thee food
                        and flowers for sacrifice. This evening, therefore, I will visit thee again
                        and they shall stay outside, and I will bring thee cakes and wine and
                        deer's meat. And when thy wounds are healed and thou art fair
                        again, then will I clothe thee in a beautiful
                        robe, and lead thee to the palace of my father (for he is king of Mani) and
                        thou shalt be our god."
                    So she told him all--all but one thing, and how could she tell him that?
                        Surely he ought to guess it.
                    Yet he spoke not. He kneeled and kissed the hem of her robe--and thus she
                        left him.
                    Why had he not spoken? Did he love her? She had seen the tears in his
                        imploring eyes when they met under the dome of the senate, but these might
                        be tears of despair and suffering. She could not tell and the doubt troubled
                        her. So her brow was clouded and her face was sad when she rejoined her
                        companions.
                    Although they yearned to know why she had lingered behind, yet they saw from
                        her countenance that it was not best to ask, and they walked on in silence
                        to the palace. Here they found that there had been great wonderment at their
                        long absence and that some were about to go in quest of them. They explained
                        their delay by saying that they had not noticed, while they talked together
                        in the depths of the senote, how high the sun
                        had risen in the sky. They were met with a reproof by the queen-mother at
                        the foolishness of girls who spent the hours in chatter and idleness, and
                        when they were put to their daily tasks of spinning, weaving, and embroidery
                        they were admonished to make up for lost time by greater diligence.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    DREAMS AND DEVICES.
                    THE princess attended her mother alone to the
                        queen's chamber, where she was told that on the night before, the
                        high-priest had gone to the divining house on the summit of the teocallis
                        and had there counted from the signs of heaven the day of the approaching
                        festival to Chaac, the giant god of the cornfield, and to Zamnà, the founder
                        of the race. Upon the occasion of this festival, the lord of Peten-Itza was
                        to come and claim her for his wife. That was still three months away, but
                        the Maya month was only twenty days, and the time was short enough for the
                        needful preparation. The queen spoke with her daughter of the wedding--of
                        the new robes and jewels and the damsels who should attend the bride--of all
                        the things that at such a time are most
                        precious to woman's heart--and the mother noticed that she had
                        never before seen her child so compliant. Maya appeared to have few opinions
                        of her own upon these weighty matters, but yielded without comment to every
                        suggestion. Often indeed her mind seemed far away. She was thinking perhaps
                        of the lord to whom she was betrothed, and of the new power and splendour
                        which this union was to bring to her father's house. For ever since
                        her childhood she had been devoted to the memory of the great line of kings
                        from whom she was descended. How small was her father's dignity
                        to-day beside the glory of the past! He was the ruler of only a single
                        province, and though the city of Mani was of considerable size, how pitiful
                        it seemed by the side of the great Mayapan, and how small his palace of a
                        score of chambers when compared with the stately dwellings of Uxmal! There a
                        whole city had stood within the sacred enclosure in the midst of the larger
                        town and was devoted to the service of the king and his vassal lords and
                        priests!
                    Mani had always been considered little more than
                        a temporary sojourn for the royal exile. But Mayapan was wholly destroyed,
                        and though Uxmal, the earlier capital, which had been abandoned long before,
                        was still in a tolerable state of preservation, yet there were few who dwelt
                        there, and the country round about had become a wilderness.
                    Many there were who thought, however, that when the kingdom was
                        re-established the people should betake themselves to Uxmal, where the great
                        palaces and temples remained, and, restoring these edifices to their early
                        splendour, rebuild around them the city which had fallen into decay.
                    So the queen-mother, after she had spoken of the preparations for the
                        wedding, and had given certain instructions to her attendants, fell to
                        talking with her daughter of the re-establishment of the empire. If
                        Peten-Itza joined their cause, the other chiefs would soon be brought into
                        subjection, and the Tutal Xius would reign again in all their ancient
                        power.
                    She was surprised that her daughter, who had always shown great zeal upon
                        this subject, now listened without a word and gave not even an answering
                        smile while the mother held before her eyes
                        these dreams of glory.
                    When she was alone, Maya began to realize that her plan would be harder to
                        accomplish than she had at first supposed. The lord of Peten-Itza would soon
                        come, and his rage and disappointment at the rejection of his suit would
                        surely be very great. Her father was a reverent worshipper of the gods, but
                        could she persuade him that this strange being was indeed a deity for whom
                        he must forsake the most cherished project of his life?
                    Moreover, the stranger had not asked her to become his bride--had not even
                        spoken to her of love. How then could she unfold to him this most necessary
                        part of her plan? For she well knew that unless he became her husband he
                        could not long keep his position as a deity. He knew nothing of the
                        supernatural duties that would be required of him. She must be his
                        spokes-man and priestess, and he would be safe only while she was at his
                        side.
                    She would tell him this when next she saw him. Then he would surely
                        understand and ask her hand.
                    That evening she and her maidens went again to
                        the senote, for she had craftily emptied some of the water jars, and no one
                        could understand why the day's supply had fallen so short of the
                        day's needs. Yet more water was necessary, and she and her maidens
                        offered to fetch it.
                    They took with them fruit and game for a repast, and gathered flowers upon
                        their way to the cavern, but when they reached the entrance, Maya, leaving
                        the others outside, said to them:
                    "Rest here; I will bring my offerings to the god alone, and when he
                        has departed I will come back to you, and then we will go together and fill
                        the jars."
                    So she entered the cave.
                    "I have brought thee food," she said, when the Spaniard
                        stood before her, "and in a few days I will bring thee raiment, and
                        soon thou shalt come with me to the palace. I will tell thee all thou must
                        do, but be sure and stay always at my side, for I must speak for thee,
                        otherwise they will ask thee things thou canst not answer.
                    "When they question thee, speak always to me in thine own tongue,
                        for though I do not understand it, I will say that it is the language of the
                        gods, which thou hast taught me, and I will
                        interpret for thee in such a way that all shall be content. I will be thy
                        priestess and seer, for I am skilled in the learning of my people and know
                        all the secrets of our religion. It will not be safe for thee to be alone;
                        we must always be together, lest they discover who thou art."
                    "Now," thought the maiden, "he will surely
                        speak."
                    But he merely answered, "Whatever thou bid'st me I will
                        do"; and although they talked long together and he spoke much of
                        gratitude, he uttered not one word of love; so with a heavy heart she
                        returned to her companions and they all went to the pool and filled their
                        jars.
                    And why indeed had he not spoken? Her face had seemed to him the fairest he
                        had ever seen, and the pity in her great dark eyes had filled his heart with
                        unutterable love. But had she not told him she was the daughter of the king?
                        How should a forlorn wanderer dare aspire to such a pinnacle of glory ?
                    Reader, no doubt if thou or I were in his place and were to behold such eyes
                        and worship them, we should not hesitate to speak; for we would know from what we have seen in this strange world that
                        the aspirations of unspoken love, though never safe, are never hopeless ;
                        that none may descend to the lowliest station and feel sure that his passion
                        will awaken a responsive throb, nor need he deem that the loftiest heights
                        are inaccessible. Be she milkmaid or be she queen, the lover cannot know his
                        fate until her lips or eyes have spoken it. For love is like a bird, whose
                        wings will dip sometimes into the lowliest valleys, though they may soar
                        unwavering to the sun.
                    But the poor exile was young and inexperienced. He did not understand the
                        caprices of the goddess.
                    Moreover, Maya had told him that she was the chief of a sacred sisterhood,
                        and though she seemed very young to be an abbess, yet this would forever bar
                        the pathway to love. For Sandoval did not know that by the Maya laws
                        marriage was permitted to the sisters of the temple.
                    So his heart was filled with despair, and he was silent.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    PREPARATIONS
                    ON their way homeward Maya told her maidens a beautiful
                        fairy-story of the new god, weaving together fact and fancy in a strange
                        bright chaos. He had floated, she said, down through the dome of the senote
                        and had walked across the water to meet her and receive her offerings. His
                        name indeed was one she had never heard before, and his home was near the
                        sunrise far across the sea. There he had built great palaces of clouds and
                        had reclined, when he was weary, within their shining chambers. Then,
                        scattering them at will, he had leaped invisibly to earth and had walked
                        among the people to learn of their joys and sufferings; he had sent them
                        rain and sunshine according to their needs; he had destroyed the wicked and
                        brought happiness to the just; he had laboured
                        long until the people of that land had grown wise and merciful. They were
                        like him, with beards, fair skin, blue eyes, and waving hair.
                    Then, when the land smiled with happiness and peace, he had bethought him of
                        other regions where there was hunger and suffering and where the tribes
                        strove with one another in battle. So he had resolved to visit these strange
                        lands and bring to them also joy and prosperity. And he had made a great
                        canoe with wings, that sped across the waters, and had guided its course
                        over the bounding waves. Sometimes he would rise to heaven like a gull, but
                        he could see nothing save the vast blue sea. Then changing his form he would
                        plunge beneath the waves and swim and play with the fishes and serpents of
                        the deep; then betaking himself to his canoe he would spread its wings still
                        westward toward the sunset.
                    Thus he had journeyed for many moons until he spied at last the shores of the
                        Maya land, and wandering through the forest, saw the ruin wrought by the sad
                        wars which had swept over the peninsula. To bring the tribes together as of old in one strong bond, he had now sought
                        the king. Yet it seemed best to speak first with the king's
                        daughter; for he knew that often it is the heart of a woman that opens most
                        readily to the call for reconciliation.
                    His plan was this: He would dwell with them as their counsellor; he would
                        still the wrath of their enemies; he would unite the tribes; the king should
                        reign in peace over the land, and Uxmal, their ancient capital, should be
                        their dwelling-place.
                    "But," said he, "I must come among your people as
                        one of them, else they will doubt my friendship. For this reason,"
                        he added, "do thou make for me a garment like the king's,
                        that I may wear it when I go forth to meet him."
                    "Therefore," said Maya, "do thou, dear Zayi (for
                        thou art skilled in embroidery), prepare for him a flowing white robe of
                        finest texture, wrought with precious stones, and do thou, Ytzatil (for thou
                        art apt in feather-work), fashion him a great crown of the plumage of the
                        quetzal, our royal bird. None may wear it but those of kingly race, but is
                        not a god greater than a king? I will give thee a gold fillet to which thou shalt bind the feathers. And, Ikal, do
                        thou bring me golden sandals and bracelets and a splendid necklace, and I
                        will seek a sword from our armoury, and we shall lead the new god to the
                        palace like a king."
                    And they willingly complied, for Maya had stilled their fears and it seemed
                        to them that great would be their honour in thus bringing a god to the city
                        to be the counsellor of Ahpula.
                    So day by day the princess tended the stranger, until his wounds were
                        healed.
                    At the end of a fortnight the maidens brought to the senote the new garments
                        which they had prepared, and Maya, telling them to wait in the thicket at a
                        little distance from the cave, entered alone with the bright apparel and
                        bade the stranger array himself and come forth into the sun's
                        light.
                    When he appeared she looked upon him in astonishment. She had never dreamed
                        that he was so stately and beautiful. His tall form, his white skin, his
                        ruddy cheeks, broad brow, and manly features, his eyes like a rejection of
                        the skies, made her almost believe that he must indeed be the god into whom
                        she would fashion him. So fair was he that Maya
                        saw no need of bedecking him on face and neck and arms, colours that were
                        the common decoration of the men of her race. Indeed some of the greater
                        gods were without these ornaments and she well deemed that they might be
                        omitted, since nature itself had so clearly stamped upon his features the
                        image of divinity.
                    Still Sandoval spoke not of love. The desire of her heart was not fulfilled.
                        Unless she should become his wife her plans would fail and she would see him
                        slain upon the teocallis as an impostor. She had begun to divine that
                        despair was the reason for his silence. If he would not speak she must
                        herself ask him to be her husband. But if she should find him reluctant! The
                        thought choked her.
                    Yet now was the time. She must not delay until the lord of Peten-ltza came,
                        for then allhope of succour would be gone.
                    So in a low voice, that never before had trembled, she said:
                    "If I am to save thee I must be thy wife." And she dared
                        not look upon his face for the answer.
                    
                    Then all at once from his hopeless heart there broke forth such a torrent of
                        over-mastering joy that he knew not what he did, but clasped her in his arms
                        and showered kisses upon her brow and cheeks and lips and spoke such words
                        of love as would only be defiled if they were heard by other ears.
                    Her maidens waited long for her in the copse behind the first turn of the
                        path and wondered why it was that she delayed her coming. Doubtless there
                        must be things of great importance which the god was telling her! And when
                        at last she came, though she spoke not a word and none was asked her, they
                        saw that her far-off eyes were radiant with joy, and they felt that the fair
                        deity had blessed her and that the coming days would be filled with peace
                        and happiness.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    THE NEW-MADE GOD
                    THE time had now arrived when the presence of the stranger
                        could no longer be concealed. It would not do to wait until Canek should
                        come to claim his wife and then break to him the humiliating news that she
                        was to be the bride of another. She must be wedded first and word must be
                        sent to him before he set forth from Peten-Itza.
                    So Maya sought an interview with the king and in the presence of the queen,
                        her mother, she thus told her story:
                    "A week ago when I went with my maidens to the senote, one of them
                        saw within the pool a beautiful god with fair face and eyes like the
                        morning, and hair like the flax of the hennequin, and light curling beard.
                        He rose from the water and talked with me and
                        told me who he was. He is the god whose coming was foretold in the books of
                        Chilan-Balam. He has journeyed from the East and crossed the waters in a
                        great canoe with wings, and he has come to unite the tribes and to make thee
                        again king over all. He will dwell in the city and be thy counsellor, but he
                        warns thee to make no league with Peten-Itza, for Canek is faithless and
                        would strip thee even of Mani. The bright stranger has taught me the
                        language of the gods and I am to be his priestess. He will soften the hearts
                        of the tribes throughout the land and they will follow thee; and Uxmal, our
                        ancient capital, shall be thy dwelling-place, and its glory shall be greater
                        than of old.
                    "After he had told me these things he floated upward among the
                        clouds and I could see him no more, but each day since, he has returned and
                        I have brought him fruits and flowers. But until to-day he bade me keep his
                        coming secret. To-morrow he will appear before thee, my maidens shall bring
                        him to the palace, and thou and the high-priest and the nobles must meet him
                        in the garden, and he will wed me ere the sun
                        is set, for he has bidden me abide always at his side, and he asks thee to
                        make ready for us a chamber in the temple of the Sun where we may dwell
                        together."
                    Now the king was greatly astonished at this speech, as well he might be. He
                        believed his daughter, but it seemed to him that she might have been
                        beguiled. So he summoned his chief priests and nobles and to them he told
                        the story, and they held counsel together and one of them said:
                    "Let it be as thy daughter has spoken. Let us go before the stranger
                        and let the high-priest ask him concerning the mysteries of our faith, and
                        let the king question him regarding the secrets of the kingdom, and if he
                        answer well concerning all these things, then shall we know that he is a god
                        indeed, and he may dwell in the temple and wed the princess and be our
                        counsellor."
                    And thus it seemed best to all. So messengers were dispatched throughout the
                        city to bid the people prepare for a festival upon the morrow, if so it
                        might be that the answers of the stranger were wise and true.
                    In the morning Maya went again with her maidens
                        to the mouth of the cavern. She entered alone and talked long and earnestly
                        with Sandoval. She told him that she had spoken with her father and that a
                        council had been held and all had been made ready to receive him. She taught
                        him how a god should bear himself, and she added:
                    "Listen carefully to all that I shall say in thy name, then thou
                        shalt know what to do. But speak thyself in no other language than thine
                        own, for it must not be seen that in any point I am instructing
                        thee."
                    Then they walked forth together into the sunlight, and at the first turn of
                        the path they came upon the attendants of the princess, who were awaiting
                        them under a great ceiba.
                    As they approached, the maidens fell upon the earth before him. He commanded
                        them to rise, and all moved on together, the stranger first, then Maya, then
                        her attendants. Upon his shoulder he carried the sword she had brought him.
                        It was made of strong wood with sharp knives of fint on either side. His
                        long robe was richly embroidered, and the bright quetzal feathers of his crown danced in the sunlight.
                    When they reached the gate leading to the palace garden it was already open
                        and within stood the king's guard, who, after making due obeisance,
                        followed in their train.
                    Then they saw the king himself borne through the grove on a litter upon the
                        shoulders of his chief nobles, with a canopy of glittering feathers above
                        him and great fans waving at his side. He was followed by his priests and
                        counsellors, and as they drew near, Ahpula descended and walked forth to
                        meet the stranger.
                    Now Maya had instructed Sandoval that whenever he did not know what to do he
                        was to make a short speech in his own tongue. This he did when he saw the
                        king approaching, and the princess thus interpreted his words:
                    "Kneel, O king, receive my blessing, and kiss the sword I bring for
                        thy protection."
                    The monarch obeyed, and all who saw it felt that here indeed must be a mighty
                        deity!
                    Maya perceived from the reverent eyes of the
                        multitude, who remained aloof from awe and fear, that even before the
                        questioning began her victory was won.
                    The stranger spoke again, and these were his words as rendered by the king's
                        daughter:
                    "Thou hast done well, O king! Hereafter kneel no more, for thou and
                        I shall walk together side by side, and I will be thy
                        counsellor."
                    Following the king came the high-priest bearing flowers which, after due
                        prostrations, he offered to the god. The answer was low and solemn.
                    "I take thy gifts," he said, "not that I need
                        them, for how should he lack flowers by whose breath the plants grow and
                        break into blossoms, but because the gift bears witness to thy reverent
                        heart."
                    Thus indeed do the gods speak! Such was the conviction of all as the
                        multitude prostrated themselves upon the ground, touched their fingers to
                        the earth, and then placed them upon their hearts in token of worship.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE WEDDING
                    SO sucessully had Maya conduced the interview that the
                        high-priest was stricken with fear at the thought of putting questions to a
                        deity, who might well resent any suspicions of his divinity.
                    And when they had come to the palace and ascended the steps of the terraces
                        on which it stood, they sat together, god and king, on two small thrones
                        under a canopy upon the platform in front of the royal chamber, in full view
                        of the nobles who stood upon the terrace just beneath, and of the multitude
                        who had gathered in the broad square still lower down.
                    After they were seated, with Maya standing at the stranger's side
                        and the high-priest before them in his vestments, the latter began his
                        questions in the form of a prayer for advice,
                        but couched in such language that it would need for answer a knowledge of
                        the religious observances of the people. He asked how long it would be
                        before the city must celebrate the festival to Chaac, and what ought to be
                        the forms with which they should conducttheirprayers and ceremonies. The
                        stranger spoke in the unknown tongue, and his young priestess thus de-
                        clared his answer: "O Ahkin Mai, why dolt thou ask that which thou
                        knowest already? Not twice eight times has the cross made its circle in the
                        southern skies since thou didst climb the steps of thy teocallis and there
                        didst put the self-same question to the stars, and they did answer thee. Why
                        dost thou ask again? Men may be false, even the gods may beguile thee, but
                        the stars never lie. Thou didst listen to their shining voices, thou didst
                        cast up the hours and find that on the tenth day of the month of Mac the
                        festival should begin. Nay, thou bast already given thy commands for every
                        part of the solemn observances. Why should I repeat them? Thou hast no need
                        of my counsel."
                    The eye of the priest quailed and sought the
                        ground. Here was a god who had not only known his deeds, but had divined his
                        very thoughts! His voice trembled as he stammered an excuse.
                    "True indeed thou speakest, mighty one, but thy servant is old, and
                        though the stars never lie, yet my poor eyes grow dim, and I may fail to
                        read aright the message that they send. I would not dishonour our festival
                        by beginning it at an unhallowed time, therefore I questioned
                        thee."
                    But the stranger's answer showed still more clearly his
                        omniscience.
                    "On every teocallis in this city there went forth that same night a
                        priest who made report to thee. Every answer was the same. Surely thou
                        couldst not doubt them all."
                    The priest was silent. He dared ask no more. That would be blasphemy, to be
                        followed, doubtless, by some awful punishment! The stranger must be indeed
                        the mightiest of the gods, for Ahkin Mai had never yet stood before any who
                        could thus overwhelm him with confusion.
                    Then the king spoke. All doubt had now vanished from his mind, and his appeal
                        for counsel was sincere.
                    
                    "To that festival," he said, "will come Canek, the
                        lord of Peten-Itza. He has asked the hand of my daughter, and I have
                        promised it. He offers to aid me in overcoming the tribes that have rebelled
                        against our royal house and in re-establishing my empire. Dost thou know
                        him?"
                    The stranger answered long and earnestly, and Maya thus gave forth the
                        meaning of his speech:
                    "I know Canek well, though he has never seen me. Before I came to
                        thee I wandered in the guise of a serpent through the temples of Tayasal,
                        and once glided close to the lord of Peten-Itza at his council board, though
                        none saw me. I heard him tell the dark designs he nourishes against thee,
                        and I have come to warn thee. Thou hast striven against him in many wars;
                        thou knowest that he is crafty and cruel. He has failed to overcome thee in
                        battle, and he seeks thy ruin by stratagem and guile. He will come to thee
                        with many warrior, speaking words of friendship and clad in the garments of
                        peace, but underneath the girth-cloth each of his retainers will hide a
                        sharpened knife, and at the banquet he will command them to drink nothing, but to pour their cups upon the ground. Then
                        when thy people have laid aside their weapons and have grown heavy with
                        wine, his men will spring upon thee and will slay thy followers, and seizing
                        thee they will bear thee away to offer to their gods in sacrifice. They will
                        burn thy city and thy queen will wander homeless from land toland. Trust not
                        the lord of Peten-Itza, for he is to-day what he has ever been, the chief
                        among thy enemies. Nay, more; if thou wilt have me abide with thy people,
                        then Maya must also stay, for the gods speak a tongue which is not like the
                        language of men, though they hear and understand all that you say. I will
                        counsel thee only through the lips of her whom I have chosen, and if thou
                        wilt have me keep thee from evil and strengthen thy dominion, then I must
                        wed thy daughter so that she shall remain ever at my side. This very day
                        must the rites be performed."
                    So the king gave orders for the celebration of the marriage and for the feast
                        which was to follow. For this he did not ask the consent of his daughter;
                        that was not the Maya custom. Daughters must obey, and in the present case no daughter could be more
                        willingly obedient.
                    There was of course less magnificence at the wedding than there would have
                        been had more time been given to its preparation. But Maya, like the wise
                        maiden that she was, cared less for the splendour of the occasion than for
                        the life that was to follow.
                    In taking a husband of whom she knew so little, thou wilt say, reader, that
                        she was not wise; and thou wilt perhaps have even a graver fault to find
                        with her for thus hoodwinking in such outrageous fashion not only her
                        parents, but her people and the priests of her religion. Yet she did
                        devoutly believe that some such calamity as she had prophesied would in all
                        likelihood follow an alliance with Peten-Itza, and if so, how could she
                        better warn her father of the danger than by announcing it to him as the
                        prophecy of a god?
                    To dwell far from home through the long years to come, in daily contact with
                        the rebel lord--old, ugly, treacherous, and cruel--this was of all things
                        what she most abhorred. And to live with the fair stranger she had
                        rescued--surely the gods would pardon much,
                        knowing, as they must, how sorely she was tempted!
                    So the marriage rites were celebrated in due order.
                    "What simple folk is this," I hear thee saying,
                        "to take a poor wanderer for a god!"
                    Are thine own people then so astute? There are indeed no witches nowadays,
                        and ghosts are much discredited, but did not thine own townsmen a few weeks
                        since hold converse with some great soul in Elysium,--with Plato, or
                        Confucius, or Washington, or perhaps with the spirit of his own wife, who
                        wrote to him upon a slate the things that he had known for many years? Did
                        not thy friend commune with Chelas from the Himalayas? Or hast thou not a
                        brother at death's door, racked with disease, who tells thee there
                        are no such things as pain and suffering? Did not Moses talk with the Lord,
                        did not Elijah mount to heaven upon a chariot of fire? How then shall we,
                        the children of light, wonder at those who, having not Moses or the
                        prophets, believed in their wild fancy that some other god, as needful
                        perhaps to them as Jehovah to the tribes of Israel, had come to dwell among
                        them and give them succour?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    AT THE CHAMBER IN THE TEMPLE
                    THE wedding feast was ended. The Guests had tasted to the
                        full the short-lived pleasure of the wine-cup, not deemed by them a
                        dishonour, but rather a temporary transportation to paradise, as the fit
                        sequel of religious duties well performed. They had now sought their homes,
                        for the night was far advanced, and Sandoval had been conducted with his
                        bride to the appointed chamber in the temple.
                    At last they were alone! The love which had been tied through the tedious
                        ceremonial and the wearisome hours of the long festival, now broke out in a
                        passionate torrent from their hearts and lips. But even as he lavished his
                        caresses upon the beautiful creature whom he held in his embrace, the thoughts of his bride went on beyond the
                        present hour of happiness into the future years they were to live together,
                        nay, even into the eternity beyond.
                    "Most unworthy," she said, "will be our union if
                        it be but for ourselves alone. Thou must become like the god I have declared
                        thee. Thou shalt be indeed the deliverer of my people, and great will be my
                        joy above all other women of my race, for thou canst not suffer me to stay
                        at home when thou goest forth to council or to battle, but in every trial,
                        in every danger, thy priestess must be always at thy side. We are joined
                        together by no common bond; in thought, and speech, and action we must be
                        forever one.
                    "Long may we thus abide! Long may the dread Yuncemil who cuts short
                        men's days loiter and hesitate ere he lays his cold hand on thy
                        golden hair. Let him rather strike me first, for not an hour could I
                        out-live thee and hear men say that thou went not a god. If perchance while
                        I am yet alive the time shall come when disease shall hang heavy over thee
                        and I shall hear the steps of death approaching, I will bear thee forth alone into the forest, and hide thee where none
                        shall know whither thou hast fled, and I will tell the priests that thou
                        hast risen to the home of the gods and I will bid them offer me to thee in
                        sacrifice so that together we may make the dreadful journey to the world of
                        spirits.
                    "I will run to thee while my heart still smokes upon the altar, and
                        thou must linger on the way until I overtake thee. I will not be long for I
                        am fleet of foot, and we shall walk together between the lofty mountains
                        that stand on either hand to crush the souls of the unworthy as they advance
                        along the narrow pathway; but thee they shall not overcome, for with my
                        great love I shall be with thee, and I will stay them and thou shalt pass
                        unharmed. And when we meet the serpent whose huge bulk lies stretched across
                        the deep valley beyond, we shall not fear him, for we know his sting
                        destroys only the craven souls that flee. Then shall we bravely encounter
                        the "wind of knives" and its sharp torments shall beat
                        upon us in vain, and we shall cross the eight deserts and the nine great
                        streams that flow around the islands of the dead. There I must rest a little
                        on thy strong arm, for thou knowest the ways of
                        the waters and they shall not overwhelm us.*
                    "And when at last we come to the gardens of the blest, Ixtab the
                        goddess will surely know the daughter of the king, and thee too will she
                        welcome, for I will tell her that that art my husband and my love. And she
                        will lead us together to Yaxche, the tree of life, whose green branches
                        stretch over the clear waters, and there the maidens of paradise shall
                        spread our tables and bring us food and wine, and I will sing to thee and we
                        shall dwell in the cool shade forever.
                    "Thus will it be with us if thou first shalt die. But if I go before
                        thee, when I come to the great tree, I will not remain, for paradise will
                        not be paradise if thou be not with me to share it. And I will ask Ixtab,
                        the queen, to change me into a bird and I will spread my wings and fly back
                        to thy home--our home--and thou shalt see 
                            *In this reference to a five
                                days' journey to the world of spirits which is common to
                                both the Nahuatl and Maya races I have followed the more specific
                                Aztec tradition, since that of the Mayas (although probably similar)
                                has not been definitely preserved.
                        me on the boughs in the palace garden
                        and sometimes I will fly in at thy door and perch upon thy shoulder and sing
                        to thee as the birds sing in paradise, and thou shalt know from the song
                        whether thou hast done the thing that Maya loves.
                    "In thy hours of joy I will sing loud and clear, and when thou art
                        sad my song will be soft and low to bring thee comfort. Surely thou wilt not
                        forget me! For if thou shouldst seek another bride my voice would choke and
                        my wings would droop and would hide from thee and mourn."
                    And the tears glistened in her eyes as she clung to him.
                    "Forget thee? Seek another bride?" cried Sandoval.
                        "If my heart shall ever beat with any thought that is not entwined
                        with the love of thee, let it be still forever! "
                    She released him and stood gazing into his clear eyes.
                    "Nay, thou must be true to me not in life alone, but even amid the
                        shades of Mitnal. And when thou comest after me, I will be with thee on the
                        dread journey. I will caress thy cheek with my bright plumage, and will sing
                        a song of victory while thou art passing
                        through the dark terrors. I will tell Ixtab of thy coming and she shall
                        prepare thy home and mine under the great tree and I shall become thy bride
                        again and dwell with thee forever."
                    Sandoval, child of earth as he was, was more eager to enjoy the delights of
                        the present than to dream of a future which could not increase his
                        happiness. Moreover, when his bride talked of the Maya paradise and the
                        dreadful journey which they must make together to reach it, he could barely
                        comprehend her. He had been taught that all such things--the huge serpent,
                        the strange gods, the transformation of a human being into a bird,--must be
                        the offspring of incantations and witchcraft, the work of the devil,
                        condemned by Holy Church, and therefore accursed.
                    But could the enemy of mankind speak through lips so tender and affectionate
                        as those of his beloved? It could not be! As to her heaven and her heathen
                        gods, why think of these when he was already in paradise? He was greatly
                        confused by mingled emotions of love and duty, and he answered:
                    
                    "Thou shalt speak with me hereafter of thy gods and thy paradise,
                        and I will tell thee of mine, but to-night let us think only of our
                        love"; and as they walked on the narrow terrace of the temple he
                        passionately declared that for him there could be no heaven that was not
                        lighted by her shining eyes, and no earth that was not pressed by the
                        footfall of her tiny feet.
                    But she was not content to put off the time when they should wholly
                        understand each other. "Tell me now," she said,
                        "the mysteries of thy faith."
                    Then he related to her in such rude fashion as he might, the story of the
                        threefold Deity, the Father of all, the Son born of a Virgin who died upon
                        the cross to save mankind, and the Holy Spirit, the Comforter. He told her
                        of the saints and angels and the martyrs of the Church; he pictured the joys
                        of heaven, with its great white throne and beatific vision; he described the
                        trials of purgatory and the endless pains of hell. She listened eagerly, and
                        when he ended, "Thou has not told me," she said,
                        "whether in thy bright city of the blest I am to be thy bride?
                        Shall we dwell there together? Wilt thou love me as I love thee here? Wilt thou be my husband?"
                    He was silent, for he could not answer her. Across his memory came the
                        crushing words, "They neither marry nor are given in
                        marriage," words that he had not thought of for years, but now they
                        choked him, for they seemed to stand as an eternal barrier between his
                        religion and his bride. He stammered the reply that so great would be their
                        happiness they would not miss the forgotten joys of earth.
                    "But didst thou not tell me there could be no heaven where my eyes
                        did not shine? Didst thou not promise never to forget? Art thou content to
                        be my husband for a few short years on earth? Thy love is not like
                        mine."
                    And in sorrow her face fell upon his breast.
                    He stood long irresolute. He stroked her hair and caressed her, but could not
                        comfort her. He could feel her low sobs upon his bosom. At last, with one
                        over-powering impulse, he passionately held her to his heart and cried:
                    "Nay, I will never leave thee, neither in earth nor in heaven nor
                        amid the pains of hell! Wherever thou art,
                        there will I be also. Beneath the great tree we will dwell together, and thy
                        gods and thy paradise they shall be mine!"
                    Again she stood erect before him, and under the moonlight that shone full
                        upon her gleaming eyes her face seemed glorified and transfigured by her
                        joy.
                    Then they walked hand in hand into the bridal chamber and drew together the
                        long, heavy curtains which shut out the world.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    THE EMBASSY
                    IN the morning they were bidden to the royal council, for
                        time was pressing and an embassy must be sent forthwith to Peten-Itza to
                        break the unwelcome news that the king's daughter was already
                        wedded.
                    But who should go upon this dangerous errand? By the Maya law the persons of
                        ambassadors were sacred, yet no one dreamed that the ferocious Canek would
                        observe this wholesome rule, for many a time before had the bearers of evil
                        tidings fallen victims to his wrath. So none would venture forth.
                    Then some advised that the king himself should go to Tayasal with his whole
                        army; others that he should await at Mani the coming of this formidable
                        chief.
                    
                    When the new god appeared in the assembly with his bride, after all had made
                        due homage, they told him of their straits and asked his counsel. And this
                        was his answer as declared by Maya's lips:
                    "It would be madness, O king, to go forth with thy troops and leave
                        the city undefended, for we have other foes near at home, and while thou art
                        away, at the utmost verge of the peninsula, the tribes of the north will
                        fall upon those who remain and will lay waste the city and the fields. And
                        shame would it be to abide here and tell the lord of Peten- Itza nothing of
                        the things that thou hast done, but suffer him to come seeking a wife, and
                        find himself betrayed. Then indeed in his wrath would he make a league with
                        others, and they would overwhelm thee. But I alone will go as thy
                        ambassador, for I am immortal and no weapon wrought by man can harm me. I
                        will go with my priestess and we will tell him all. I will say to him that
                        what thou host done has been at my command, and I will bring rich gifts and
                        offer him thy friendship and thy love. And if among thy nobles any shall be
                        found who fear not to go with us, let them
                        follow in our train. If not, I and my priestess--we will go
                        alone."
                    Then there was great gladness among the chiefs and all approved, and one said
                        : "Here indeed is our deliverer, for he fears not to do himself the
                        thing that he enjoins. Such a god will I follow with a trustful heart, for I
                        know that he will keep us from all harm."
                    Then many others said they too would go.
                    None indeed gave praise to the king's daughter, who alone had
                        planned this dar ing deed, for no one knew that it was her counsel. But she
                        cared not for this; she was filled with a great joy, to see her husband
                        honoured and obeyed. So on the same day, with a great train, they set forth
                        together, and the new god wore the quetzal crown and four nobles carried him
                        upon the king's litter, while his bride was borne behind him. And
                        thus they travelled through the winding paths for many days. When they came
                        to the great lake far to the south, wherein the island of Peten-Itza lay,
                        they sent a messenger to tell the lord of the city that the king's
                        embassy was waiting on the shore, and to bid him come forth and meet them. And when the crafty Canek asked
                        what might be the tidings, the messenger answered that he did not know; for
                        he dared not become the first bearer of the evil news.
                    So Canek sallied forth, followed by a bright array of warriors, and they who
                        waited on the strand could see the swift canoes approaching from the city of
                        many temples and dancing upon the shining waves. When he reached the shore,
                        Canek advanced, and the fair god with Maya at his side descended to the
                        ground and went forth to meet him.
                    Now the presence of a woman on such an embassy was a thing unknown before in
                        the history of that people, and the chief of Peten-ltza was astonished when
                        he beheld her. But when they came nearer and Canek saw the thick tresses and
                        dark eyes of the girl and her unconscious majesty, a great longing fell upon
                        him, and he thought:
                    "When I am wedded to the king's daughter this maiden shall
                        be my slave; there is none like her upon the earth."
                    For, never having seen the king's daughter, he knew not that it was
                        she who was before him.
                    
                    And when they met, the chief made his obeisance to the ambassador, who in
                        that place stood for the king, and said:
                    "Thou who halt come from great Ahpula, whose daughter is to be my
                        bride, what message hast thou brought?"
                    "Sandoval made answer in an unknown tongue, and Maya thus
                        interpreted the words:
                    "I come indeed bringing a message from the king, but I am more than
                        his ambassador; I am the god foretold in the books of Chilan-Balam and I
                        have descended to earth to be the king's counsellor and his guide.
                        Though I understand not the speech only, but the very thoughts of men, I
                        will not deign to hold converse with them save in my own tongue. My
                        priestess, who knows the language of the gods, is at my side; she will tell
                        thee the message that I bring."
                    The chief was disconcerted at this reply. He marvelled much at the appearance
                        of the stranger. A being so fair and godlike he had never seen before, yet
                        he was moved to doubt the divinity of one who thus came from the king
                        without warning, and who might prove hurtful to himself in projects which aimed at the final conquest of the
                        kingdom. So with a slight sneer he coldly asked:
                    "What is the message?"
                    Maya's face flushed in anger at the chief's scant courtesy.
                        Through her lips the answer of Sandoval was declared:
                    "The king sends thee rich gifts and seeks as ever thy alliance and
                        thy love, but his daughter thou canst not have, for at my command he has
                        bestowed her upon me and I have wedded her, and she has come with me, not
                        only as my priestess but my bride."
                    A dark cloud gathered upon Canek's brow. The beautiful creature whom
                        he saw before him was then the maiden to whom he had been himself betrothed,
                        and she was already the wife of another! Unable to contain his wrath at the
                        indignity cast upon him in the presence of his own warriors, he cried to
                        them:
                    "Seize the impostor! Bring him to the city that we may sacrifice him
                        to our gods. Let all who are with him perish save only the king's
                        daughter, and bind her also, for she shall be my slave!"
                    But not a soul stirred. The speech and the
                        commanding presence of the stranger had filled with a strange awe the hearts
                        of the warriors of Peten-Itza. It seemed to them that they were indeed in
                        the presence of a deity. They feared their chief but they dreaded still more
                        the retribution of the gods. They trembled and no man moved.
                    "Cowards!" shrieked Canek: "Must I show you with
                        mine own arm that this pretender is no more a god than yourselves? Must you
                        see him bleed?"
                    And springing back, he seized a bow from an attendant and sent an arrow
                        straight toward the stranger's heart.
                    But Maya saw the act. Quick as thought she leaped in front of her husband and
                        received the shaft upon her arm. Clear through the flesh it went and the
                        arrow-head stood out upon the other side.
                    "No, love, it pains me not," she said as she saw the
                        pitying eyes of Sandoval bend over her. And she broke the shaft and drew it
                        forth and whispered, "I am not harmed."
                    Meanwhile the followers of the embassy had drawn their bows upon the rebel
                        chief and Canek was compelled to take refuge behind his warriors, who implored him to offend no further a deity whom he
                        could not slay.
                    Muttering curses and threatening vengeance upon the king, the princess, and
                        the pretended god, he turned with his followers to the boats and departed
                        for his island city.
                    Sandoval sought to staunch his wife's wound by tearing his own
                        mantle into shreds and binding them around her arm. But he was awkward and
                        unskilful. The shaft had pierced a vein, yet he wound the cloth above and
                        not below the place where the arrow had penetrated, and Maya was soon faint
                        from loss of blood.
                    "Wind the shreds lower down," she said to him. She spoke
                        low, but one of the nobles heard her, and the words sank deep into his
                        heart.
                    Sandoval blushed with confusion at his lack of skill. His companions
                        perceived it and could not help wondering why a god who knew all things had
                        not from the very first done what was needful.
                    The princess swooned. Ever and anon when his voice called her name she would
                        open her great eyes and look upon the face that leaned over her with the same smile of unutterable tenderness that he
                        had beheld when he first saw her in the cavern by the pool; then she would
                        fall as into sleep again. They placed her in her litter to bear her home and
                        Sandoval walked at her side, his gaze fixed unalterably upon her features.
                        The poor exile was wretched indeed, forced as he was to keep silence while
                        his one hope lay dying within the litter.
                    Whenever the bearers set it down he knelt beside it, closed the curtains, and
                        pressed a kiss on her cold brow. With a powerful effort her eyelids would
                        unclose, she would look upon him for a moment, and in a low voice would
                        murmur, "I shall soon be well," and then would smile and
                        sink again into unconsciousness.
                    At last, however, she rallied, and when evening came they gave her wine and
                        food. Sandoval watched at her side all night; and saw that she was no longer
                        in a swoon but sleeping quietly. And they bore her back in safety to Mani,
                        where the king's physicians tended her with care and skill, till
                        the wound healed and she grew strong and well again.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    REPROOF--INSTRUCTION
                    IN the meantime the news of what had happened spread
                        through the city; and the people, though they were well pleased that the
                        warriors of Peten-ltza had feared the stranger and had refused to stir
                        against him even at the command of their own chief, yet all were greatly
                        distressed at the harm that had befallen the princess, and they marvelled
                        that a god who knew all things and could do all things should have suffered
                        it.
                    When she recovered, Maya was called alone into the presence of the king for
                        warning and reproof.
                    "Why was it," he asked, "that thou, knowing thy
                        husband was immortal, shouldst fling thyself before him to stay the arrow
                        that could not harm him?"
                    And Maya answered:
                    
                    "Father, I love him many times more than my life, and when I saw the
                        arm of Canek lifted against him I thought not whether he was god or man. I
                        saw only the arrow and my husband."
                    The king was softened by the answer of his daughter and proud that she had no
                        fear. So he said:
                    "My child, I understand thee; thou hast the heart of all our royal
                        line. But put not again thy life in peril, for bethink thee thou canst not
                        aid thy lord, and above all thou must not perish, for in thee is the hope of
                        my people."
                    Then Maya returned to her husband in the temple.
                    
                    A new matter now claimed her attention. It is not hard to see how
                        inconvenient it was that Maya did not understand the Spanish language, and
                        that Sandoval could not speak to his wife in the presence of others in the
                        Maya tongue. All her interpretations had been simply the creatures of her
                        fancy, and it must be clear to any husband what a hardship it would be thus
                        to live helplessly at the mercy of whatever his wife might happen to
                        say.
                    
                    Sandoval indeed had never complained of this, but it was Maya herself who
                        insisted that she ought to know the meaning of the unknown words he spoke to
                        her.
                    So, day by day when they were alone, he taught her that soft speech which,
                        like the Spaniard's smile, has oftentimes so well concealed the
                        stern and cruel thoughts of those who uttered it.
                    Love is a skilful tutor, and the girl was soon able to understand and even to
                        answer in rude fashion all that he said. What matter if the sentences were
                        not grammatical? To those who spoke not the "language of the
                        gods" this was unknown; if her husband could catch the meaning of
                        he words that was enough, for from his lips she feared neither laughter nor
                        reproaches.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    THE SPY
                    GREAT was the dismay at Peten-Itza when Canek and his
                        warriors returned. He called together his counsellors, the priests and the
                        elders of the city, to incite them to vengeance, but those who had been with
                        him to meet the embassy had brought back such tidings of the strange god,
                        and the oracles had foretold such dire calamities if Peten-Itza should march
                        against the king, that Canek found the attempt impossible. He must pursue
                        his revenge by other means and defer his dark designs until some more
                        convenient occasion. So for the time he yielded to the wish of his people
                        and they remained at home.
                    There was, however, within the city one Bacab, a captive taken in one of the
                        former wars with Ahpula, whom the lord of Peten- Itza had spared from sacrifice. Bacab had a deep and
                        crafty soul, so Canek summoned him to a secret interview and laid before him
                        his purpose of revenge.
                    "Return," he said, "to the king's court
                        at Mani, for I will make thee free. Tell him that I have repented and that
                        thou comest to offer him my submission and my love. Then seek employment in
                        some temple and lurk upon the footsteps of this strange god and his bride
                        and watch their doings. I will send with thee trusted messengers, and if
                        they can fetch me such tidings as will show to the king that the stranger is
                        no god, I will come to Mani with my warriors and thou shalt confront him
                        with me in the king's council. Then when I overthrow him I will
                        make thee a noble and the chief of my household and give thee one of my own
                        kindred for a bride and a great dwelling and a garden on the shore of the
                        lake where thou shalt dwell in honour all thy days."
                    Among every people there are some base souls whose faith may thus be bought.
                        Bacab took the tempting offer and journeyed to Mani, where he was welcomed
                        by the king and his counsellors. Even the strange god was beguiled, for was it not one of the
                        kings' own subjects who had brought back the message? So in reward
                        for his good tidings Bacab was appointed by Ahpula to serve as one of the
                        priests in the temple of Echuah, the god of travellers and of the merchants
                        who journeyed with their precious wares from land to land bringing the gold
                        and copper and opals of Mexico in exchange for the delicate embroideries of
                        Yucatan. To this god great deference was paid in Mani, since the prosperity
                        of the city was largely due to the traffic upon which he smiled. His shrine
                        was near the temple of the Sun, where Maya dwelt with her husband.
                    One brilliant moonlight night, when the whole city was asleep, Sandoval and
                        his bride walked forth together upon the terrace in front of their chamber
                        and looked upon the gleaming skies above them and then into each
                        other's eyes, which mirrored the glory of the heavens.
                    Flinging her arms around the neck of her husband, Maya broke forth into
                        passionate protestations of devotion. Sandoval sighed as he acknowledged
                        that he had done little to deserve the wealth of affection thus lavished upon a poor castaway. But she replied:
                    "Although thou art not the deity I have declared thee and though
                        thou couldst not heal me when the arrow of Canek smote my arm, yet for this
                        do I cherish thee the more. How indeed should I love one who had no need of
                        my affection? How should I be the bride of a god who could not suffer and
                        die?"
                    And Sandoval answered: "Too much do thy words prove. Precious as
                        thou art in the eyes of thy father and thy people, thou hast little need of
                        a poor outcast like me. Yet none the less will I love the bright face of her
                        who redeemed me from the horrors of sacrifice and stooped from her high
                        station to become my bride."
                    "Do I not need thee?" she answered. "Nay, the
                        world would be a desert every hour thou wert not at my side."
                    And their lips came together and her heart was pressed to his bosom. Then
                        they retired hand in hand to their chamber.
                    That night as they lay side by side in the richly woven hammock within,
                        Sandoval slept, yet the eyes of the princess were unclosed, for she was
                        thinking how her husband should lead their
                        armies as the Nacon of the king, and bring back the tribes of the north to
                        their allegiance.
                    Suddenly from a dark corner of the chamber, there came a rustling sound, and
                        someone who had crouched there in silence stole forth, drew aside the
                        curtain, and glided stealthily away. She could see the stars gleam through
                        the doorway as he passed.
                    She leaped to the ground and followed, but when she went forth upon the
                        terrace there was nothing--only the white city below and the shining heavens
                        above. And when her husband, awakened by the quick movement at his side,
                        asked what had befallen her, she told him and added:
                    "It must have been Xibalba, the evil spirit, 'he who
                        vanishes,' for he has disappeared like a mist and the stars shine
                        and all is well again."
                    Thus she spoke to comfort him, yet feared in her own heart that by someone
                        they were closely watched and she added:
                    "Hereafter when we talk together, let it be in thine own tongue, for
                        I would have no prowler at our side to report the things we speak
                        of." And she could not tell what more
                        to think or do, nor could her spouse, "the god who knew all things,
                        even the thoughts of men," say aught to cheer or counsel her.
                        Through the long night she lay awake and trouble filled her breast.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    REVENGE
                    BUT the morning was bright and beautiful, her fears were
                        stilled and for many days thereafter all went well within the city. An
                        expedition was planned against the tribes of the north and her husband was
                        made the Nacon to command the armies of the king.
                    Just as all was in readiness for their departure, armessenger arrived to say
                        that Canek was approaching and asked to meet the king in council, for he had
                        weighty matters to deliver.
                    So Ahpula assembled his counsellors under a canopy upon the terrace before
                        the palace door, but he commanded his nobles to come armed with sword and
                        spear, for the Nacon had warned him through Maya's lips of coming
                        treachery. And the king bade Canek approach
                        with two or three of his chief men, no more, and commanded that they should
                        lay aside their weapons before appearing in the royal presence.
                    The lord of Peten-Itza was filled with wrath at the mistrust of his
                        sovereign, yet he could not now draw back nor could he say that arms were
                        needful to one who was offering friendship and allegiance. So he appeared
                        with two only of the chief men of his tribe. But those about the king saw
                        with wonder that the priest of Echuah, who had disappeared from Mani a few
                        days before, was also with him.
                    Canek fell to the earth before his sovereign.
                    "Grant forgiveness, O king," he said, "for my rash
                        words and the violence I offered to thy embassy. So greatly did I love thee
                        that my heart was filled with bitterness when I saw that the bride whom thou
                        hadst promised to me was given to another. But I will make thee full
                        atonement, for I come as thy faithful slave to show thee how thou art
                        betrayed even in thine own household and to save thee from the shame and
                        peril that surround thee."
                    Then Canek called upon the priest of Echuah and
                        bade him tell all that had happened on the night when he lurked in the
                        chamber of the temple and heard the pretended god conversing with his bride.
                        He told how they had confessed in secret that the stranger was no god at
                        all, and could not heal the king's daughter of her wound, and that
                        she had wedded him from pity, proclaiming him to be the thing he was not,
                        and had stooped from her high station to become his bride.
                    Those who heard the story were dumb with astonishment. Silence fell even upon
                        the lips of the Nacon, for he knew not what to answer. But Maya herself
                        stood forth and spoke unbidden, and she asked:
                    "Wilt thou, O king, believe the tale of a base spy, who lurked
                        within the chamber of the temple and vanished like the evil
                        one?"
                    But the king answered, "Why is thy god silent? Why could he not heal
                        thee of thy wound?"
                    And Canek cried, "Nay, let us try him here. Let him lay his sword
                        aside and do thou give me thine, O king, and if he fall not, let me be
                        offered to the gods in sacrifice! If he be immortal I cannot harm him, but if he bleed, let his own heart smoke upon
                        the altar!"
                    Then Maya spoke to her father again:
                    "Bitter will be thy punishment if thou shalt suffer one of thy
                        vassals thus to make trial of a god."
                    But the king answered her: "Out of thine own device hast thou
                        spoken, not at thy lord's command. Let it be as Canek
                        says."
                    Then the nobles took away the Nacon's sword and the king offered his
                        own to the old chief.
                    "Nay!" cried Maya, as she sprang between them.
                        "Not against the god but against thyself will he lift
                        it!"
                    Now the king faltered and doubted what he should do. But the Nacon was
                        unarmed and Canek saw his opportunity. Drawing from his girdle a sharp knife
                        which was hidden in its folds, before Maya saw his purpose (for her face was
                        toward sword) he leaped like a tiger upon the stranger and thrust the keen
                        blade into his shoulder.
                    The Spaniard with one blow felled his assailant to the ground, yet even while
                            Canek writhed at the king's feet
                        he shrieked in triumph: "See! He bleeds! If he be indeed a god now
                        let him heal himself!"
                    The impostor was unveiled. The victory of Peters Itza was complete.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    RELEASE
                    GREAT was the king's shame and greater was his
                        anger. "Let the false god be seized," he cried,
                        "and bind him for sacrifice. As for the daughter who has betrayed
                        me, let her be kept within the penance chamber of the cloister of Ixnacan
                        Katun, until her fate shall be decided, and let none see her save her
                        guard."
                    Upon the lord of Peten-Itza he bestowed rich gifts and promised to grant
                        whatever the old chief might ask.
                    The crafty soul of Canek was pitiless in vengeance.
                    "Let the king grant," he said, "that I may take
                        the Nacon's place and lead his troops against the people of the
                        north. And when they are subdued and we return in triumph, let me with mine
                        own hand (though there is little honour in the
                        deed) sacrifice this false god to our offended deities, and at the same
                        festival do thou bring forth thy daughter, and, commanding her that she eat
                        with me the meat of the sacrifice, do thou bestow her upon me as my wife. I
                        will know how to keep her so that she will not betray me."
                    And saying this, a soft smile stole over his hideous face.
                    And the king answered: "Go forth then as the Nacon of my army, for
                        know thy skill in battle, and I doubt not thou wilt return in honour and
                        triumph. And the false god must indeed be sacrificed by the Nacon's
                        hand, for this is his appointed duty. But let not Maya taste the food of
                        sacrifice, nor wilt thou find it a light task to take her with thee as thy
                        bride."
                    And Canek replied: "Only deliver her into my hands and, old as I am,
                        I will find some gentle way to persuade her."
                    And his eyes glittered with the hope of his revenge.
                    So Canek led the armies of the king against the tribes of the north, and in
                        two months they returned laden with booty and bringing many captives.
                    
                    Then a great feast was ordained and Sandoval was brought forth with the
                        prisoners on the appointed day and Maya too was bidden to the festival.
                        During her captivity she had seen no friendly face; she knew not what was to
                        be her doom, nor had she heard aught of the fate of her beloved.
                    One treasure, however, had she kept to comfort her. In the struggle between
                        Canek and Sandoval the knife that had wounded her husband had fallen to the
                        floor close to her feet. She had plucked it from the earth and hidden it,
                        and none had seen her at a time when all eyes were upon the old chief as he
                        lay writhing on the ground reviling the pretended god--and the knife she
                        kept (it was a small one) wound among the tresses of her hair, and cherished
                        it above all other things.
                    When they brought her forth, clothed in festal garments, her face was very
                        sad, but her eyes gleamed and her spirit was unshaken. She saw the
                        preparations for the festival. Her husband stood a little way off with the
                        other captives bound and ready for sacrifice, so she knew well the fate that
                        was in store for him. And when the king came with Canek and she saw that the
                            chief of Peten-Itza had anointed with
                        blood the long hair bound around his head, then she knew that it was by his
                        hand her husband was to die.
                    But when her father told her that she was to become the wife of the old
                        chief, she stepped back a little, so that no one could stay her. Then she
                        drew forth the dagger.
                    "Dost thou dream," she said, "that for a single
                        hour I would survive the sacrifice of my lord? Dost thou fancy that I would
                        live one moment as the bride of his murderer? Nay, come not near, or at one
                        blow shall perish the hope of thy royal line. Wilt thou have me slay also
                        the child whose heart beats under mine? Then shalt thou be indeed the last
                        of thy race and thy kingdom will be scattered among strangers. For my dagger
                        shall not be put aside till thou hast freed my husband from his bonds and
                        given me thy royal word that he may go forth in peace and that I may follow
                        him."
                    Now behind Ahpula stood the queen-mother, who plucked his robe and besought
                        him to speak with her, for she feared that he might suddenly advance to the
                        place where Maya stood, and she knew well that this would be the end. And
                        she said:
                    
                    "Bethink thee, my lord, we must not lose our child. Long years have
                        I watched over her and loved her, and she was ever the pride of thine own
                        heart. Hard was it when at thy command I spoke not with her, nor looked upon
                        her face during her long gloomy days in prison. Yet thou didst will it and I
                        obeyed. Yet now, sweet lord, we must not see her perish. Thou must pardon
                        her and the stranger whom she loves, and set him free."
                    Now, deeply as the king was offended at his daughter, she had been, as the
                        mother said, the pride of his heart, and now he loved her perhaps the more
                        for the fearlessness with which she had defied him. He would see her
                        punished for her transgression, but he would not have her die.
                    Yet he could not grant her request and release the victim who had been
                        dedicated to the gods, without a conference with the high-priest and with
                        the lord of Peten-Itza. So when he had withdrawn with them alone into his
                        own chamber for a parley, the high-priest indeed consented, for he had been
                        the instructor of Maya's childhood and he loved her. He said that
                        however great had been her sacrilege, the gods themselves best knew how to punish it, and that Maya must not die
                        while there was no heir to the throne.
                    With Canek the case was different. Though he now realised that Maya would
                        never become his wife, yet he was stubborn in his thirst for vengeance upon
                        the man who had robbed him of his betrothed. Still there were motives of
                        policy which withheld him from his prey. The object for which he had sought
                        the hand of the king's daughter had been that he might gain the
                        regency, to which he would be entitled at the monarch's death. The
                        king was a younger man than he, it is true. "But," thought
                        the crafty lord, "he will not live long after an heir is
                        born." For Canek had learned much from a great magician concerning
                        the use of poisons, how to place them upon sharp-pointed twigs in
                        treacherous pitfalls along the paths, how to secrete them in water jars, or
                        even to pour them into the senotes, so that those who might drink should not
                        know what it was that made them sicken and die. And the chief said:
                    "O king, if thou sufferest them to depart together, let thy daughter
                        first swear that she will send her child, when
                        he is weaned, back to thy court. Then will I come to Mani and adopt him as
                        my own and be his father, for was not thy daughter first promised to me, and
                        is not that my right? And shouldst thou die before the child come to manhood
                        let it be ordained that I shall reign in thy stead and the child after
                        me."
                    And the king answered, "So shall it be."
                    Thus Peten-Itza stifled his revenge, but said to himself:
                    "It is only for a time. When I am ruler the altar shall smoke with
                        their blood!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    EXILE
                    THEREUPON the king came forth and proclaimed that Maya and
                        her lord might depart together from the city, but that they must dwell far
                        from the homes of men, nor seek longer to abide with the people they had
                        betrayed, and that when her child was weaned it should be sent to the royal
                        court to be brought up as the heir to the throne.
                    Maya promised all, for she was eager to save the life of her husband, and
                        being not yet a mother she knew not how hard it would be to keep her word.
                        So Sandoval was released from his bonds and Maya's maidens gathered
                        around their mistress to bid her farewell, and she asked:
                    "Will none go with us in our exile?"
                    And many answered, each one saying: "I
                        will follow thee," for they loved her greatly.
                    She chose from among them her best beloved, and the king also sent as their
                        attendants a few of his most trusted men, for he would know whither the
                        exiles were gone and see that they were watched and tended in their
                        solitude.
                    They counselled together as to the place where they should dwell and Maya
                        said:
                    "In Uxmal, the city of my fathers, let us make our home, for there
                        there are stately dwellings, long deserted, and in them we may live together
                        as becomes a king's daughter and her lord. Our love will grow the
                        greater in solitude, until perchance upon some happier day we may return,
                        and thou again become the leader of my people."
                    And Sandoval answered: "Whether we dwell in a palace or in the
                        wilderness, wherever thou art it will be paradise."
                    Before the sacrifices had been celebrated they left the city. They were glad
                        to escape the gloomy rites, for Maya abhorred as deeply as her husband the
                        immolation of human victims, and the hearts of her maidens also shrank from
                        scenes of suffering and death.
                    
                    Maya told her followers that their course should be toward Uxmal and by way
                        of Kabah--another deserted city--for from Kabah to Uxmal there was a
                        causeway, which had been the king's highroad, and was easier to
                        travel than the forest paths, though there were obstructions here and there,
                        for sad had been the havoc wrought by hurricanes and warring tribes since
                        Mayapan had fallen.
                    Upon the third day they came to Kabah, and Sandoval wandered with Maya among
                        the lofty buildings that were falling to decay, with the long roots of elms
                        winding around their masonry. They sat beneath the great archway and walked
                        in front of the facades, that were sculptured as luxuriantly as the temples
                        of Mother India herself; they examined the stuccos of struggling eagles
                        within the halls and the columns of sapote wood carved with grotesque
                        figures beside the doorways; they stood before a majestic building three
                        stories high, where long rows of chambers upon the upper floors were
                        approached by a broad exterior stairway of stone, a building which seemed to
                        Sandoval one of the noblest structures he had ever beheld. Maya said nothing but seemed lost in reverie, as if she
                        were overcome by some unhappy memory, and he asked the cause of her
                        sadness.
                    "This city," she answered, "was the first abode of
                        treason. In Kaba dwelt the Dwarf who stirred the embers of revolt against
                        our royal house. Shall I tell thee the story?"
                    Sandoval was eager to hear it and she thus began:
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    AHCUNAL
                    "THE Mayas lived for many generations in
                        prosperity under the Tutul Xius. Nohpat was the last king who dwelt in
                        Uxmal. He reigned in splendour and his people loved him, yet no matter how
                        joyous the occasion, he never smiled; and men wondered at his secret
                        grief.
                    "There was an ancient prophecy that in a certain year the sound of a
                        silver tunkul* would be heard throughout the land in harmony
                        with the tinkling of a silver zoot,† that this was to be the signal of
                        the monarch's fall, and that he who had made the sound would sit
                        upon the monarch's throne. Nohpat knew that the time was drawing
                        near for the fulfilment of the prophecy.
                    " Here in Kabah he built the palace upon 
                            *A wooden drum much used in
                                the Maya ritiuals.
                        
                        
                            †A musical bell.
                        
                        which we are now gazing; he walked in the cool
                        shadow of the garden, he bathed in the clear waters of the pool and strove
                        to forget his doom, but the thought sat ever at his side that he was to be
                        the last king of his line who should rule in Uxmal.
                    "In Kabah dwelt a woman, poor and old but honoured for her wisdom
                        and her knowledge of hidden things. She was a widow and of her descendants
                        one only survived, her grandson, a dwarf, crippled in body, but crafty and
                        of a daring spirit. Men called him the Diviner, Ahcunal.
                    "Now the widow knew the prophecy and she had kept for many years the
                        magical instruments by which it was to be accomplished, but she feared to
                        bring them forth, for the gods had foretold that he who won the throne
                        should be accursed. So she buried her treasures and told no one of the place
                        where they were hidden.
                    "Ahcunal guessed that his grandmother had a secret, for he noticed
                        that she spent her days in meditation crouched in a corner of her cabin with
                        her eyes fixed on a large stone in the middle of the hearth.
                    "At first he could not understand her conduct, but Xibalba, the evil
                        spirit, floating into the cabin at night,
                        whispered to him in dreams that there was a treasure under that stone.
                    "The old woman went forth every morning to the city well for water
                        and to the market for food, but always returned quickly lest someone should
                        search the cabin while she was away. One morning Ahcunal made a little hole
                        in the jar which she carried upon her shoulder so that the water would spill
                        to the ground and she must remain to stop the leak. Scarcely had she left
                        the but when, pushing away the fire and cinders, he raised the stone and
                        found beneath it the two silver instruments, both very old and beautiful.
                        The Dwarf knew nothing of the prophecy, and without a thought he beat the
                            tunkul and he shook the zoot until
                        the sound was heard through all the cities of the land even to the mountains
                        beyond Uxmal.
                    "The king upon his throne listened and trembled; then he asked
                        counsel of the priests about him and they brought forth the records of the
                        prophecy. It may be they owed Nohpat an ill turn, for they gave him strange
                        advice. They told him that the only way whereby he might avoid his impending doom was by calling upon the Dwarf
                        to undergo with him a new and singular ordeal. Each was to cause four
                        baskets of palm nuts to be broken successively over the head of the other,
                        and when either fell so that he could rise no more, the survivor was to have
                        the kingdom. So Nohpat gave the challenge and Ahcunal accepted it, for he
                        counted upon the skill of his grandmother to protect him; and he did not
                        reckon in vain. She rubbed upon his head an invisible plaster of obsidian
                        powder so hard as to defy the sharpest blows.
                    "The champions met at the appointed place, a basket filled with palm
                        nuts was placed upon the head of the Diviner, and a strong warrior chosen by
                        the king seized a club of stone and beat upon it with all his force. Four
                        times were fruit and basket shattered but the Dwarf suffered no harm. Then
                        Nohpat came down from his seat to submit to the same ordeal, but at the
                        first blow he fell lifeless to the earth, and Ahcunal was carried to the
                        throne.
                    "At first the new king reigned wisely. He refused to dwell in the
                        palace of the Tutul Xius and converted that vast structure into the great hall of justice. For himself he built a
                        small but beautiful house which stood upon a steep and lofty pyramid and
                        overlooked the temple where dwelt the virgins of the Sun; and for the old
                        enchantress he erected another building, upon a high mound a little distance
                        off. She put the new king under the protection of Kinehahau, "The
                        Child of the Sun," whose image was worshipped in the chief temples
                        of the city, and she warned him that the god would cease to smile upon him
                        if he failed to bring happiness to the people. Ahcunal promised her
                        everything, but when after a few years she died, he forgot the lessons she
                        had planted in his mind and became the slave of his own passions. He
                        violated the sanctity of the vestals and turned their temple into an abode
                        of debauchery. At last the god forsook him; one night a great noise was
                        heard in the temple of Kinehahau, and the next day it was found that the
                        image of the deity had disappeared.
                    "But the Dwarf promised his nobles that he would put in the place of
                        the vanished deity a still more powerful god. He called together his most
                        skilful workmen and commanded them to make for
                        him a wooden idol, saying that he would give life to it so that it might be
                        placed in the flames and they would have no power to harm it. The image was
                        finished, but scarcely had it been touched by the fire before it was
                        consumed. Then Ahcunal made a statue of stone, but it crumbled with the heat
                        into a mass of lime. Then the king called together the potters and commanded
                        them to make agod of clay. This remained long in the fiery element and then
                        stirred with life, and the people fell upon the earth to worship it, for the
                        Diviner had brought the spirit of evil into the new god.
                    "Then another wonder followed. One night all the gods of Uxmal
                        disappeared, and as they went they cursed the king and the city; and Ahcunal
                        filled their places with images of clay and to these the people gave divine
                        honour until the dwellers in Uxmal became known as Kuul-Katob or the
                        worshippers of clay idols.
                    "But the king had loaded his subjects with such burdens that loud
                        murmurs rose and at last the men of the provinces marched against Uxmal to
                        overthrow the hated Dwarf. The city was taken and given over to spoil and carnage, the Diviner perished
                        on the threshold of his own palace, which he defended with desperate
                        courage, and the dynasty of the Tutul Xius was again restored.
                    "But the people of Uxmal would no longer dwell in a capital which
                        had been cursed and abandoned by the gods. So they moved the seat of
                        government to Mayapan, which had long before been wrested from the Cocomes.
                        The great city was rebuilt, and for a time the dynasty was re-established in
                        all its power.
                    "But when evil is once planted, even though the first crop be swept
                        away, many seeds remain which bring forth in time a plentiful harvest of
                        suffering. The wicked deeds of the Dwarf were the beginnings of the sorrow
                        which has fallen upon our kingdom.
                    "Thou cant not wonder, therefore, that I look with sadness upon the
                        place whence sprang the parent of that brood of ills."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    LEGENDS
                    AND now the two exiles with their attendants followed the
                        causeway that led from Kabah to Uxmal. There were no horses nor wheeled
                        vehicles in those days and this road had been built for those who went
                        afoot, for travellers and soldiers, for the runners of the king, for the men
                        who carried litters, and for the merchants with their trains of burden
                        bearers. It was eight feet in breadth and was laid in white smooth stones,
                        lifted a little above the land around it, and the people called it Sacbey,
                        "The Great Road."
                    The journey to Uxmal was not a long one. Proceeding in leisurely fashion, two
                        days were ample for its accomplishment. Indeed even a few hours had been
                        enough for the king's couriers when fetching news for the monarch or bearing his commands no the subject
                        city.
                    Now for the first time Sandoval and Maya began to enjoy together the wonders
                        of the Yucatecan forest. On the embassy to Peten-Itza they had been borne in
                        litters apart from one another, but now the Spaniard was no longer a god,
                        but an exile, and could share with his bride the simple joys of the
                        wilderness. So much better is it to be a man than a deity!
                    So he and Maya, loitering behind their attendants, listened to the hum of
                        insect life and to the multitudinous voices of the forest birds.
                    "From these," said Maya, "did my people learn
                        their music and the songs of the harvest, while the bees humming amid the
                        blossoms taught them how sweet and honourable was daily toil. Proud is the
                        warrior with his dancing plume, but just as honourable the husbandman who
                        hoes his milpa and gathers the corn; and in the bright
                        generations of our golden age the wars were few and the harvests were
                        plentiful. There were no walls or turrets for defence, for none assailed,
                        and the skilful workman was honoured alike with the chief.
                    
                    "Listen to that song," she added, as an oriole above them
                        poured all his soul into the melody he sang to the mother bird who was
                        hovering above their hanging nest. "Couldst thou sing a strain more
                        tender and affectionate?"
                    And as they listened to the notes, now high and clear, now soft and low, with
                        the mother bird answering quietly and the little ones chirping while the
                        breadwinner went forth and returned with some new morsel, Maya
                        continued:
                    "Above all birds I love the oriole, for its destiny is bound forever
                        with mine own. When I was yet a babe only a few days old, the high-priest
                        brought me to the temple. There he burned upon the altar fragrant twigs and
                        leaves and blossoms and then laid me naked upon the white ashes, which my
                        tiny form pressed till they were smooth : then he bore me away and the next
                        day came again to see what mark of living creature was upon the ashes. For
                        whatever he should find, whether beast or bird or crawling thing, with that
                        being my own fate was to be forever joined. In its joys would I find my
                        happiness; if it languished I should be filled with sorrow, and in the hour of its death my soul should also enter the
                        land of shadows. And when the priest came again, he found the foot-prints of
                        an oriole. Therefore I know well that somewhere lives the bright bird with
                        black and yellow plumes, whose life shall bear the burden of my destiny.
                        Somewhere in the forest she and her mate are singing now together. And if I
                        die, it is into her form that Ixtab shall change me, so that I may sing to
                        thee till thou thyself shalt come."
                    And after a pause she added quietly: "But well I know no bird ever
                        loved its mate as I love thee."
                    Thus talking they fared through the forest over the shining road. The blue
                        eyes and the black came often together in their glances, and their joy was
                        perfect. Suddenly Sandoval started and drew back amazed. Across the pathway
                        lay stretched beneath their feet a mighty serpent glistening in the
                        sunlight. Its neck was long and slender and its graceful head was swaying to
                        and fro. Black it was above and at its sides there fell deep streakings as
                        if some dark fluid had been poured upon its back, while its belly was the
                        colour of the red-ripe orange. Beautiful it was, with its thick body and its tapering tail, but to
                        Sandoval it seemed hateful, and he seized from the wayside a strong sapling
                        to destroy it.
                    "Nay," said Maya, "it will not harm
                        thee," and she stooped and lifted it from the path, stroking its
                        neck until it lay quiet upon her shoulder, with its long form coiled around
                        her waist.
                    "There are, indeed," she said, "serpents within
                        the jungle that bring certain death to all they strike. Such thou mayst well
                        destroy, but the things that harm us not, why should we slay
                        them?"
                    A little farther on they heard a plaintive murmur, and upon the topmost bough
                        of a small tree there perched a dove, Cucutcib, cooing for her mate. And
                        Maya said:
                    "Look at that curving neck! Sometimes indeed I think she seems more
                        tender and faithful than my oriole, but she is jealous of her love and once
                        she left her nest because she doubted him. Dost thou know the
                        story?"
                    Sandoval had not heard it, so Maya told the tale as it had been sung by the
                        poets of her people:
                    "A faithful wife had been Cucutcib, brooding over the tiny eggs in her soft nest. Then came the artful
                        squirrel, tossing his beautiful tail, and he climbed up to a bending twig
                        close to the quiet bird.
                    "'My friend,' he asked, 'why wilt thou
                        always stay unsociably at home, and never join us when we make the forest
                        merry with our gambols?'
                    "'My mate is absent,' answered the dove;
                        'I must not leave the nest till he returns.'
                    "'A pretty mate is thine, forsaken bird!' answered
                        the crafty squirrel. 'I saw him to-day in a green ceiba, and he was
                        wooing another!'
                    "Stung by these poisoned words, the dove forsook her nest and flew
                        to the great tree, but she found not her mate, and when she returned the
                        frail eggs were shattered, for the squirrel had devoured them and the shells
                        were strewn upon the ground. Then the heart of the poor mother was filled
                        with despair and she moaned in her sorrow 'Cuuc-tu-tuzen,'--'the squirrel has deceived
                            me'--and this is now her cry forevermore.*
                    
                    "But think not," said Maya, "that, like 
                            *See Le Plongeon, Here and There in Yuctan.
                        
                        the dove, I would doubt thy faith, or leave
                        thy home and little ones."
                    They walked on together far into the night. The air was balmy and it was late
                        when they swung their hammocks from the trees.
                    Not far away they could see the lofty dwellings and temples of Uxmal. The
                        moon was shining clear and cold full in the face of the great palace where
                        Maya's fore-fathers had reigned for many generations.
                    This noble edifice appeared to Sandoval even more impressive and stately than
                        the great mosque of his own Cordova. It did not cover the same vast area,
                        but it had the advantage of a lofty position upon the summit of three
                        successive mounds, rising one above another. And its gleaming wall was
                        surmounted by a gorgeously decorated cornice, where grecques, masks,
                        statues, and bass-reliefs were thrown together in confused luxuriance.
                    "Dost thou wonder," said the rich voice at his side,
                        "that I treasure the memory of the city of my fathers? If Canek had
                        not betrayed us--here should we have reigned."
                    And Sandoval sighed, thinking of the fair days
                        that might have been; then looking upon the beautiful face at his side, he
                        answered:
                    "But just as precious will be a quiet life with thee
                        alone."
                    And she answered with her eyes though she spoke not.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    UXMAL
                    THE next morning they passed over the Island that had once
                        been occupied by the great city. The dwellings of the people had crumbled,
                        and fresh young trees had grown over them. The exiles now entered the inner
                        precincts of Uxmal through the gate of what had been the city wall dividing
                        the palaces and temples from the larger town without. This wall was built of
                        stone, but it was neither high nor broad, for it had been intended, not for
                        defence but seclusion--to keep the sacred city from the throng.
                    And now they ascended the three terraces upon which stood the palace of the
                            king.* They
                        walked around this noble edifice and looked into the chambers, swinging wide
                            
                            *"The House of the
                                Governor," as it is called to-day.
                        
                        the great doors of sapote wood, richly carved.
                        Within were dark rooms built of solid masonry.
                    Passing behind the palace, and a little to one side, they came upon the
                        "House of the Turtles," on the second terrace, with its
                        simple white cornice of columns, and Maya explained that this had once been
                        the queen's dwelling.
                    Then they went on to the great building which to-day men call the Nunnery. It
                        was composed of four long structures surrounding a wide courtyard. Entering
                        this court they saw on each of its sides a faҫade of wonderful beauty. On
                        the north abroad stairway flanked with piles of decorated masonry led to a
                        high terrace, upon which stood a palace with thirteen doorways and over each
                        door a triangular turret of richly sculptured stone. To the west was range
                        of buildings elaborately adorned, where two interlacing serpents were twined
                        around the square panels of the cornice. To the south was another long
                        structure with many entrances and over each the sculptured representation of
                        a Maya cabin, with thatched roof and the image of a man in the doorway.
                    
                    
                        UXMAL. THE NUNNERY. CORNICE ON SOUTH FAҪADE
                    
                    
                    But the most exquisite of the four buildings around the courtyard was that
                        upon the east side. Over a plain wall pierced by five entrances, there was a
                        cornice of stone lattice-work with a border above and below. Over the middle
                        door were three grotesque masks of human faces, one above the other, while
                        in the lattice above each of the other doors were eight horizontal bars,
                        with a serpent's head at each end. These bars increased in length
                        as they rose from the door to the top of the cornice, and in relief against
                        the three upper ones was a human face, with head-dress like those on
                        Egyptian monuments, with rings in the ears and tongue hanging from the
                        mouth.
                    Now to Sandoval it seemed that of all the buildings he had ever seen, there
                        was none of more admirable design than this, and he well deemed that its
                        unknown architect had been one of the world's great artists.
                    Just behind it rose the "House of the Diviner,"* erected by the
                        Dwarf.
                    Uxmal had been forsaken for several 
                            *The House of the Diviner
                                was built upon the summit of an artifical mound some ninety feet
                                high and oval at the base. There were, indeed, two buildings on this
                                mound, one resting on the platform on top, approached by a broad,
                                steep stairway from the east; the other, one story lower,
                                overlooking the Nunney, and reached by a similar stairway from the
                                west.
                        
                        generations. The forces of destruction are
                        very swift in this fiery land of alternate humidity and drouth; a growth of
                        small trees, bushes, and cacti had already begun to appear upon the stone of
                        the buildings and in some places the walls were beginning to crumble. But
                        the noble structure on the east, "The Temple of the Sun,"
                        remained entire. The bright hues on its stone lattice-work had become
                        dimmed, but it was all the more beautiful in its softened tints.
                    It was in this eastern edifice that Sandoval and Maya resolved to take up
                        their abode, not only because the chambers were commodious, but because the
                        temple itself had been linked with precious memories of the sacred order of
                        which Maya had been the chief.
                    They chose for their dwelling the six apartments at the middle of this
                        building, while the maidens occupied the rooms on each side, and the men
                        sent by the king took up their quarters in the structure south of the
                        courtyard.
                    
                    Here, in the ancient sanctuary of the vestals, Sandoval and Maya dwelt
                        together in such perfect joy as the gods grant only to lovers during the
                        first bloom of married life. They wandered often among the buildings of the
                        deserted city, and Maya told her husband the meaning of the sculptures and
                        inscriptions. The feathered serpents coiled around the cornice west of the
                        courtyard, one holding in its mouth a human head, portrayed, she said, the
                        power of Kukulcan, intertwined with the wisdom of Zamnà, and holding in its
                        open jaws the destinies of man. In many places there appeared the impression
                        of a small red hand which seemed as though it had been dipped in blood and
                        then pressed upon the wall. Maya said that each of these stood for Cab-Ul,
                        "the working hand" of Zamnà--the power by which the wise
                        god wrought his wonders; and that when men touched the sacred sign they felt
                        the strength of the great healer and his inspiration.
                    But oddest of all to Sandoval were the "triangular arches"
                        which he saw at different places on the outside of the buildings as well as
                        the vaulted ceilings of the chambers within, which were built in the same
                            way. He wondered much at these curious
                        structures and could not understand why there was no keystone. He spoke to
                        Maya of this defect, but she did not seem to know what he meant.
                        "How," she asked, "could they be better than they
                        were?"
                    To us the making of an arch may seem a simple thing, yet mankind laboured
                        many centuries before this thing was understood. The Mayas had come far
                        along the pathway to that discovery, but they had not reached the end. Egypt
                        never solved the problem, nor even Greece. In the arch of Mycenæ there is
                        something quite like these structures of the Mayas. The walls come close
                        together, but no keystone is laid above them. This does not mean that Uxmal
                        has anything to do with Mycenæ; it means simply that the human mind, working
                        in the same way through long centuries in lands far apart, sought by the
                        same means to do the same thing. The problem was to span great spaces with
                        small blocks of stone, and the Maya and the Greek struggled on in just the
                        same manner towards its solution. It takes a long time for even a simle
                        principle like that of the keystone to be fully understood, and when the
                        Roman at last 
                            UXMAL. THE NUNNERY. PART OF THE WEST FAҪADE
                        
                        discovered it, he marked a new era in
                        architecture.
                    Sandoval also noticed a number of flat stones on the terraces, which upon
                        being lifted, opened the way toward cavities beneath. Some of these, as Maya
                        told him, were cisterns, others were storehouses for grain, and when the
                        city was abandoned many of them had been used as hiding-places for things of
                        value.
                    One of these vaults which lay close to the building where they dwelt was, she
                        said, a treasure-house, and when Sandoval went down into the chamber, he
                        discovered a jar of terra cotta, curiously ornamented, and within, a number
                        of valuable objects--images, amulets, gold ornaments, precious stones and,
                        strangest of all, an ancient manuscript made of a paper of crushed maguey
                        leaves, upon which was written in hieratic characters the history of the
                        Tutul Xius. A strip of this paper several yards long and perhaps half a foot
                        wide was folded like a screen so that it might be read first upon one side,
                        fold after fold, then upon the other; there was no back to the volume, but
                        the whole was bound between two wooden covers delicately carved, to each of which an end of the paper was firmly
                        attached. As Maya and Sandoval examined the writing, she explained to him
                        the nature of the characters. Whenever anything could be shown by a picture,
                        the picture was made, but if the thought was one of which no drawing could
                        be given, then an arbitrary symbol was used* and in a few cases, where neither the picture
                        nor the sign was plain enough, the sound of the word was represented as in
                        our own alphabet.†
                    Writing of this sort is hard to understand, but Maya had been taught the
                        meaning of the signs, and without difficulty she read to Sandoval many
                        chapters from the heroic periods of her country's history.
                    Such a manuscript might seem to us a crude jumble of bad pictures and
                        unintelligible signs and yet to him who understands it it has a deeper
                        meaning than the choicest engraving or the most delicate Elzevir, for, like
                        the incomplete arch which shows the 
                            *As in the Chinese
                                language.
                        
                        
                            †Bishop Landa has since
                                given us the Maya alphabet. The correctness of this is seriously
                                questioned, yet there is little doubt that phonetic characters were
                                occasionally used.
                        
                        struggle of this people towards higher
                        creations in architecture, it tells the story of their efforts to perpetuate
                        their thoughts in written form. It shows on a single page the steps by which
                        mankind advanced from the rough picture-writing of the savage to the
                        alphabetic characters in which are preserved the masterpieces of literature
                        and the sum of all permanent human knowledge. It is the living evidence of a
                        great chapter in the history of the struggle of mankind from ignorance to
                        knowledge, from darkness into light.*
                    
                        *Several of these Maya
                            manuscripts are still extant; among them the Dresden Code in the Royal
                            Library of that city, the Codices Troano and Cortesianus in Madrid, and
                            the Codex Perezianus in the National Library at Paris, besides others in
                            private hands. They contain records of a mythical, historic, and
                            ritualistic character, and the efforts to decipher them have up to the
                            present time been attended with only partial success.
                    
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    THE CHILD
                    AFTER some months the child was, born, a chubby boy with
                        his father's blue eyes and fair hair.
                    But even with the first pressure of the tiny hand against her breast, Maya
                        felt a stab as sharp as if a keen knife had pierced her heart. For with the
                        dawn of mother love there came also the dreadful thought that this sweet
                        treasure was hers only for the brief time of his nursing; that just as the
                        young soul would awaken and the childish prattle would begin, the beautiful
                        boy would be lost to her forever. Nay, more than lost; for in the slimy
                        contact with Canek the name and memory of his mother would grow hateful to
                        him.
                    But among the Mayas a child is not weaned until during the third year. There
                            was still a breathing-time for joy and
                        tenderness.
                    "More than two years!" she thought; "that is a
                        long while! So many things may happen! Canek is old, and ere that time the
                        gods may call him to Mitnal. If he should die, surely my father will relent
                        back to the palace, and in some happier hour the child shall reign and his
                        father and I may still abide with him."
                    With each day that passed, the bonds of her love grew stronger, her hope more
                        anxious, and her fear of the parting more feverish. The months went on until
                        the child looked into his mother's face and smiled, and one
                        afternoon, as the three sat together in their shadowy chamber, and the
                        bright rays streamed through a narrow cranny at the side of the curtain
                        drawn across the doorway, the child, sitting in his mother's lap, clutched
                        at the shining sunbeams which glittered with those countless particles that
                        float forever in the atmosphere. But the father's face passed in
                        front of the line of light and when the little hand reached out, the gleam
                        had vanished. The boy's eyes grew big with wonder. Then the father's face was withdrawn and the
                        child clutched again. Again the sunbeam disappeared, until seeing that face
                        and shadow always came together, the chubby hand seized his
                        father's beard with a shrill outburst of laughter at his great
                        discovery.
                    What swift ways have these little ones to twine themselves about our hearts!
                        How winsome are their trustful smiles! They cannot talk to us, but how
                        perfectly we understand them! As the years pass and their words grow plain
                        we may not know the meaning half so well.
                    One day they brought the boy to a chamber on the north side of the courtyard
                        which they used as a place of worship. They placed him in front of the low
                        altar upon which stood a curiously moulded statue of Ixchel, and the baby
                        hands reached out to grasp it and to feel the rough, strange contour of the
                        image. Maya held him back. Again and again he struggled to possess it, and
                        still the mother's arm gently withheld him, until at length he gave
                        over the pursuit of the forbidden pleasure. Yet afterwards, whenever he came
                        near the image, his arms were stretched forth and his little fingers, again
                        and again contracting, though they might not
                        hope to grasp the precious form, set forth more plainly than words his
                        longing for the thing he dared not touch.
                    Thus do we stretch our hands, and He who knows all things may tell better
                        than we whether the image we would clutch is worth the striving. Is it fame?
                        Fame vanishes. Or riches, which moth and rust corrupt before our eyes? Or is
                        it love? For pitiless Death hides even love within the tomb. We know not; we
                        are borne hither and thither and with outstretched arms cry to the winds;
                        and who shall answer us?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    THE GODS' DECREES
                    AFTER Uxmal had been abandoned and the surrounding milpas had become overgrown with rank vegetation, the
                        neighbourhood grew to be unhealthy. There were marshy tracts without
                        drainage and the great aguada which had formerly supplied
                        the city with drinking water had now, after long neglect, become a stagnant,
                        pestilential pool.*
                    
                        *The aguadas
                            were the public reservoirs built by the Mayas throughout Yucatan. They
                            are immense structures for the keeping of water during the dry season.
                            One of them is situated within half a league of Uxmal. Great trees hang
                            over its borders and it now has the appearance of a natural lake. Yet
                            when the dry season is prolonged and the water is withdrawn from the
                            edges there can be found large square stones cemented together, with
                            other stones laid alternately beneath in many layers. Under the deepest
                            part of many of these aguadas there are also huge
                            covered cisterns for the purpose of keeping the water which remained
                            after evaporation and daily use had emptied the reservoir. When the aguada became dry these cisterns furnished the last
                            reserve of the community. There were several hundreds of these
                            structures distributed throughout the peninula, a marvellous evidence of
                            the industry and skill of the Maya people in overcoming a most serious
                            physical obstacle--the lack of water.
                    
                    
                    The Mayas, notwithstanding the instruction of Zamnà, were little skilled in
                        the laws of hygiene, and when it was known that the few who remained near
                        the forsaken city were stricken by disease, this was thought to be due to
                        the wrath of the gods, who had cursed the place defiled by the evil conduct
                        of the Dwarf.
                    Maya did not share this superstition of her countrymen, and she feared not to
                        dwell amid the scenes that were dear to her. But on the other hand she could
                        not know, nor could her husband tell her, of the miasma that lurked in the
                        jungles around the ancient capital. It was her custom to bathe her boy
                        frequently in the cool waters of the aguada, but it was
                        not long before she saw with concern that the child, who at first had been
                        so strong and lusty, now began to languish. He refused nourishment. He grew
                        thin and weak, and each day, when the fever
                        came, his blue eyes would gleam for a time strangely and unnaturally bright,
                        and then, when the fiery stranger had departed, would fade again and grow
                        dim and lifeless.
                    Word was sent to the king of the child's illness, and one of the
                        royal physicians came from Mani to heal him, but all was in vain. Each day
                        the little voice grew fainter and the thin arms clutched the
                        mother's neck with feebler pressure. At last the final hour drew
                        near and Maya's attendants stole from the chamber, for they knew
                        that at such a time the parents must be left to struggle with their grief
                        alone.
                    The boy lay upon his mother's lap within the shadow of the doorway.
                        The father looked on in a dull stupor at the suffering of the frail body
                        that was more to him than the wide world without, yet he so helpless to
                        bring comfort or healing! He could not speak, he could not weep, he could
                        not even feel. He fancied that the scene before him was nothing but a dream
                        and he watched the passing of this precious life with almost the same
                        indifference as if it had been a stranger or a beast.
                    
                    He saw the sunshine creeping inward across the floor and thought that now it
                        must be the middle of the afternoon.
                    He listened to a great fly that buzzed around him and reminded him, he knew
                        not how, of his own country and some far-off time.
                    Then he wondered how he could be so callous in this great sorrow, and he
                        dimly traced the footsteps of mercy even in his brutish insensibility.
                    Then his grief returned, and the old question came to him, the inevitable,
                        the unanswerable,--why the Great Power who knows all and can do all should
                        suffer these things to be, and his heart rose in rebellion against such a
                        Providence.
                    When sorrow enters our doorway, how varied are the looks we cast upon the
                        dark-browed stranger! The face of one is hardened by the marks of defiance,
                        while the calm features of another are softened by the tenderness of
                        resignation.
                    Maya felt more keenly than Sandoval could possibly feel the tearing of her
                        heart-strings as the life fled from the little face that now breathed no
                        longer against her bosom. Yet when she knew that all was over, she looked up through her tears and smiled! Then
                        laying the child upon the hammock and covering his body with her mantle, she
                        turned to Sandoval, her arms stole quietly around her husband's
                        neck, and she whispered:
                    "He is not far away, nor will he ever be. I shall sing to him over
                        the little mound as I used to sing by the side of his hammock, and he will
                        hear me just as well."
                    I think men cannot feel as strongly as women do the near presence of those
                        who live no more. Sandoval did not seem to understand the words his wife had
                        spoken. He gazed long upon vacancy, nor could he be aroused from his
                        lethargy until he had looked into her shining eyes. Then the memories of a
                        greater love awakened him, and he murmured:
                    "Thou art still with me," and his tears
                        mingled with hers as they drew aside the mantle and gazed together upon the
                        face of the sleeper.
                    Maya had no fear for the child upon his appointed four-days journey to the
                        land of the spirits, for well she knew that the grim gods of death withhold
                        their terrors at the passing of an infant's soul, and that the children of paradise would come forth to
                        welcome him.
                    And on the fifth day, according to the Maya rites, the child was buried in a
                        little grave near the palace, and he sat upright in his narrow chamber while
                        they placed upon his lap and in his hands the images and toys he used to
                        love, and covered all with a great stone, and built a mound above him, where
                        each day at sunset the mother came to sing a lullaby. At times Sandoval was
                        with her, but he sat at her side in silence, and he was less comforted than
                        the mother, for he doubted whether the child could hear. Indeed, it was
                        rather to please her than to satisfy himself that he accompanied her, for
                        many times he felt a strange shudder as he gazed upon the things that
                        brought to his remembrance that dreadful hour of death.
                    Sometimes Maya came alone, for such is mother grief that there are moments
                        when even the dearest must not share it. And one day, while she was sitting
                        by the mound and talking softly to the child beneath, she heard from a
                        neighbouring tree the cry of a bird, and she found hanging from the branches
                        the nest of an oriole with one small fledgling
                        whose parents had perhaps fallen victims to some beast or bird of prey, for
                        the little one was deserted and alone. Well did Maya know that the tiny
                        creature which had called to her was the soul of her own child, and that its
                        cry was the answer to her song. So she took the nest and brought it to her
                        chamber and cherished the small foundling till it grew strong and sang to
                        her. But she would not fetter the little creature in a cage.
                    "As his soul grows," she said, "he must fly
                        whither he will and be joyous and happy in the forest."
                    And the bird flew away, but often returned to be fed from her hand and
                        caressed upon her bosom. And when it sped again into the forest she would
                        say:
                    " He is growing strong and happy and I rejoice."
                    Yet her joy was darkened by the thought that her child had no longer the same
                        need of her care and love. But she comforted herself with the
                        reflection:
                    " In my dreams he can never grow old and strange to me. There shall
                        I see ever the same baby face and feel the same caressing arms, and he will remain my little one forever."
                    Often indeed she realised that it was better the boy had gone than that he
                        should have lived to be consigned to the guardianship of Canek and brought
                        up in forgetfulness or hatred of the mother who had loved him so tenderly.
                        And when she and Sandoval spoke of it together they came to the conclusion
                        that after all it might be that the decrees of the gods were wise and
                        good.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    THE CROSS
                    ONE evening Sandoval and Maya climbed the steep steps of
                        the pyramid that rises to the lofty House of the Diviner. When they reached
                        the summit they stood for a long time watching the groups of stars that
                        blazed above them. It was a night such as is seen only in the tropics. The
                        warm air was scented with a sweet aroma from the dense vegetation around
                        them. The beautiful palace in which they dwelt lay at their feet. To the
                        south rose the gables of the House of the Doves tracing a clear silhouette
                        against the heavens, a little to the left was the stately palace of the
                        king, while other pyramids and mounds beyond cast their sharp triangular
                        outlines against the sky.
                    The Southern Cross hung low upon the 
                            UXMAL. HOUSE OF THE DOVES
                        
                        edge of the heavens, and although in this
                        latitude it has not the brightness that it attains south of the equator, yet
                        even here it forms one of the most remarkable constellations in the
                        firmament.
                    "My people," said Maya, "like thine own, worship
                        the cross, and there in the sky is its everlasting symbol. I rejoice that I
                        saw it on our bridal night shining unclouded, for that shall still be to us
                        an augury of happy days.
                    "Our great prophet, Ahcambal* foretold that it was under such a sign that we
                        must receive the bearded strangers from the East. But to thy people the
                        meaning of the cross is not the same as with us. To them it stands for the
                        suffering of a God that saved the world. With us it is the sign of the
                        spirit of the four winds of heaven, whence come the clouds that bring the
                        blessed rain which refreshes and restores the earth. Is not that a better
                        meaning than 'a god in torment?' Little dost thou tell me
                        of thy thoughts concerning the deep things that lie beyond the world--what
                        then is thy belief?"
                    It would be hard to say what was the 
                            *In the books of
                                Chilan-Balam of Mani.
                        
                        precise form of Sandoval's faith
                        since his marriage to the Maya princess. He had joined her in the outward
                        observances of her religion, though to tell the truth he put little trust in
                        her grotesque gods and strange superstitions.
                    His faith was in that chaotic condition, common to many of the sons of earth,
                        which followed no certain creed, but deemed that if men were to be judged it
                        would be rather by their lives than by their beliefs; that there was
                        somewhere a protecting arm; that in the great unknown there would be found
                        shelter against harm and suffering, and that the beloved of his soul would
                        be forever at his side.
                    Yet the roots of the faith of his childhood still clung to him and the
                        memories awakened by Maya's allusion to the cross brought in their
                        train a pang of regret that he had wandered so far from the path of his
                        fathers.
                    So he spoke of the meaning of the sacred symbol with an earnestness and
                        eloquence such as his wife had never heard before. The Maya tongue would not
                        utter his full meaning, so he fell into his own Castilian. He told of the
                        infinite gentleness of the Man of Sorrows, of
                        the lessons of humility and peace taught by the wanderer, of His willing
                        sacrifice and cruel death--the sad story which, in its simple grandeur, is
                        and ever shall be the wonder of the world, holding all men, believers and
                        unbelievers alike, in reverent awe.
                    Maya, although she had learned the outlines of the tale on that first night
                        at Mani, had never yet realised the beauty and majesty of the Christian
                        faith. So deeply affected was she at the recital that she could not speak
                        but took her husband's hand, and after he had ended they stood long
                        in silence upon the high pyramid until the moon, rising deep red on the
                        horizon, filled the sky with a spectral and supernatural light. They then
                        descended hand in hand and betook themselves to their own chamber.
                    That night Maya dreamed. It was a weird phantasmagoria. First she seemed to
                        be standing with Sandoval on the terrace of the House of the Diviner looking
                        at the Southern Cross. Between the four great stars at its extremities a
                        multitude of lesser ones appeared that grew brighter as she watched them
                        until the whole formed a shining mass of light.
                    
                    Then upon the cross there was outlined the form of a human figure, fair and
                        beautiful, but with sorrowful and suffering countenance. Soon the
                        constellations round about grouped themselves into the forms of children,
                        and the little ones had wings and floated around the figure on the cross and
                        sang as they passed, songs so soft and caressing that he smiled at them
                        through his tears and pain. And among the children was her own boy, who, as
                        he floated by, held out his little hands to the sufferer just as he had held
                        them out in life to the image which he might not touch. Then the cross
                        dissolved and bright garments fell upon the figure and it floated upward
                        through the heavens, the children following.
                    And now from far beneath, the constellations grouped themselves again, and
                        there were flames that leaped up toward the shining form, but they might not
                        touch it, and amid the flames there was a countenance which Maya knew only
                        too well, for it bore the cruel lips and leering eyes of Canek. His gaze was
                        fastened upon one face, the face of her boy, and the old chief struggled to
                        clutch him and drag him down into the flames. But the arms of the beautiful being who had risen from the cross
                        stretched forth and took the child, and folded him to his own breast, where
                        he rested as quietly and confidingly as if upon the bosom of his mother.
                    And as Maya dreamed, her heart was filled with a great love for the bright
                        god who had plucked her child from danger and sheltered him in his
                        affectionate embrace. And when she awoke she turned to her husband and told
                        him her vision, and she added:
                    "Thy god is better far than ours. Neither Zamnà nor Kukulcan nor
                        'the Sun's Eye' is such as he. I too will worship
                        him. Let me keep only my paradise and the birds that sing in the branches of
                        the tree of life and in all else I will follow thee and thy God shall cheer
                        and comfort us."
                    Thus it was that they established a composite faith, half Christian and half
                        pagan--a faith that would not be at all satisfactory, I fancy, to the
                        orthodox expounders of either religion--a most grotesque conglomerate, thou
                        wilt say, and so indeed it was. Yet it gave them comfort, and was perhaps
                        not harder to explain than are some of the tenets of thine own faith,
                        reader, whatever that faith may chance to be.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    THE INVADERS
                    AND now there came to the king at Mani the news of bearded
                        strangers who had landed on the coast near the north-eastern corner of the
                        peninsula. The chief who ruled in that part of the country had lured them to
                        his city and attacked them from ambush, but they had swords of a strange
                        sharp metal which hewed to pieces all that stood in their way, and they
                        carried weapons charged with thunderbolts which slew their assailants from
                        afar, so there had been a great slaughter among the Maya warriors. At last
                        the strangers had gone back to their winged canoes and now they were sailing
                        along the shore, but great was the fear lest they should land again.
                    Such were the tidings brought by swift couriers
                        to the king, and the chief who sent them besought the men of Mani and the
                        neighbouring tribes to arm and come straightway to the coast that all might
                        fight together against the strangers.
                    Now the counsellors of Ahpula were divided. Some urged him to join the tribes
                        of the north in driving out the invaders, while others said it would be
                        unworthy of the king to make common cause with a rebel chief; and he was in
                        sore doubt what he should do.
                    Then he bethought him of Sandoval, who might perhaps tell him what kind of
                        men were these strange beings, and how worthy of his friendship, should he
                        become their ally against his rebel lords.
                    So a messenger was sent to Uxmal to bid Sandoval come to Mani with all speed.
                        The Spaniard doubted whether he should go; perhaps this was another trap set
                        for his ruin. But Maya said:
                    "I will go with thee; and should they plot against thee I will bring
                        to naught their devices as surely as I thwarted the schemes of Canek on the
                        day he had appointed for thy sacrifice."
                    
                    So they went forth together, and together they appeared at the
                        king's council.
                    When Ahpula told him of the white men, Sandoval was strangely moved, for
                        memories of his youth came back to him when he heard of the coming of his
                        countrymen, and the thought dawned in his heart that perhaps the days of his
                        exile were drawing to a close.
                    He told the king that there were none who could withstand the strangers, and
                        that the better plan would be to join them and offer them his friendship.
                        But when the king asked whether the white men would establish him upon the
                        throne, Sandoval answered that this could only be if Ahpula should accept
                        their religion for his own and acknowledge the great monarch who dwelt
                        beyond the sea; for the Spaniard understood the ways of his countrymen and
                        knew that no other peace could be made with them.
                    Those who sat at the council saw how his eye glittered when it was told him
                        that his own people had come to the Maya land, and when he spoke of
                        submission, they cried out against him, and declared that he who had been a
                        false god in the past was now a traitor.
                    
                    Had it not been that Maya was at his side it would have gone hard with him,
                        but for her sake Ahpula would not suffer the hand of any to be raised
                        against him.
                    Then the king sent his troops to the westward to drive away the strangers,
                        for the word was that the great canoes had sailed thither.
                    First the army marched to Kimpech, the northernmost harbour that lay upon the
                        western coast. Here they found that the white men had already come and
                        gone.
                    The lord of the place had at first made them welcome, for he knew not who
                        they were, nor had he yet learned the will of the king concerning them. So
                        he had shown friendship to the foreign captain and clasped him in his arms,
                        and each had worn the other's garments, and the Mayas had given to
                        the newcomers all manner of provisions,--partridges, cocks, hares, venison,
                        and bread; and the strangers had wondered greatly at the splendour of the
                        city--at the square tower upon whose front was graven the image of a god
                        with wild beasts on either hand, and at the serpent with a tiger in its
                        mouth, all cut in stone and sixteen paces long.
                    
                    But when the people of Kimpech saw that the strangers offered no worship to
                        their gods, then the high priests b brought forth a bundle of reeds and set
                        it afire to show them that, unless they departed when the reeds were burned
                        they also would be consumed. At last the Spaniards sailed away south-ward
                        along the coast, and swift couriers were sent to Mochcovoh, who ruled at
                        Potonchan, where there was another harbour and a city; and they warned him
                        not to barter with the strangers, nor give them food nor water except in
                        exchange for their own blood; and the king's army hastened thither
                        to drive away the invaders.
                    At Potonchan there came forth fire and smoke and thunder from the great
                        canoes, yet the Mayas were undaunted, and when the strangers landed, met
                        them on the shore and hurled upon them stones and spears and arrows until at
                        last they fled back to their vessels. Half their men were killed and
                        well-nigh all were wounded, and the Spaniards departed in great sorrow,
                        after their "bad fight." *
                    
                        *The place was afterwards named
                            by the Spaniard the bay of Mala Pelea. Cordova, the leader of this
                            expedition, died of his wounds a few days after his return to Cuba.
                    
                    
                    The Mayas now believed that they were forever rid of their unwelcome guests,
                        and great was the scorn cast upon Sandoval when the army came back to
                        Mani.
                    The following year another fleet hovered along the coast. It followed the
                        same course, and at Potonchan there was another battle, and again the
                        Spaniards fared badly and lost many men.*
                    Once more the strangers departed and nothing more was heard of them till
                        Cortes came. Nor did the Great Captain stay in Yucatan, but forthwith sailed
                        on to Mexico.
                    Meanwhile Sandoval had returned with 
                            *Bishop Land, who afterwards
                                wrote of the event, tells us with great particularity that the
                                leader Grijalva lost "a tooth and a half" in the
                                struggle.
                            Bernal Diaz, a soldier who took part in the battle, also tells us:
                                "We stayed four days in this place and I shall ever forget
                                it for the locusts that we saw there. These creatures kept flying in
                                our faces and at the same moment we were attac,ed by a shower of
                                arrows and we mistook the locusts for arrows. But as soon as we
                                found out our mistake we deceived ourselves in another more dreadful
                                way, for we now mistook arrows for locusts and no longer sheltered
                                ourselves against them. We were severely wounded in consequence and
                                found ourselves in a vey awkward predicament."
                        
                        Maya to Uxmal, where they lived together many
                        years knowing nothing of the great deeds that ended in the conquest of the
                        Aztec kingdom.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    CONSOLATION
                    WHEN Canek heard the news of the death of Maya's
                        child, which blasted his hopes of the succession, he shut himself in his
                        stronghold among the hills of the south, and nothing more was heard of his
                        alliance with Ahpula for the subjugation of the tribes. There was no open
                        break between chief and king, for Canek hoped, if Maya had another heir,
                        that his schemes might be renewed; in the meantime, however, his thoughts
                        were given to the strengthening of his power elsewhere so that he might aid
                        either the king or the rebels and become the leader of whichever faction he
                        pleased when occasion might offer; and to all appeals for aid, the king had
                        for answer nothing but postponements and excuses.
                    
                    Years passed and the old chief lived on, yet he could make little headway in
                        his schemes, and finding at last that he could not reach the throne, he
                        determined to make sure of his vengeance. It was not long until he found an
                        opportunity.
                    One evening a messenger came in haste to Uxmal, bearing a letter written upon
                        bark, and when Sandoval examined it he found that it contained, not Maya
                        hieroglyphs, but the script of his own Castilian. It was a poor scrawl, for
                        the writer even in his best days had little learning, but Sandoval was able
                        to make out that it came from his former companion, Guerrero. This was
                        indeed a surprise to him, for he had not known that the old sailor was
                        living.
                    The letter said that Guerrero was stricken with mortal sickness and implored
                        Sandoval to come to him.
                    Maya, when her husband told her of the request, besought him to hasten to his
                        dying comrade, and offered to go with him. And so, followed by their
                        attendants, they set forth together through the wilderness.
                    When they came to Chatemal and were brought to the dwelling of Guerrero,
                        Sandoval could hardly recognise his former companion in the old man, hideously tattooed, and adorned with rings and
                        barbaric ornaments, who lay upon a bed of mats within his lodge, while
                        beside him stood his stout spouse with children of every age and size. But
                        worse than his physical disfigurement were the traces of terror which
                        overspread his countenance as he tossed from side to side upon his bed. Both
                        in his dreams and in his waking hours he was tormented with remorse for his
                        dreadful heresy, and images of the fends and lames of hell came to plague
                        him with menaces of endless suffering. The help of Holy Church was not at
                        hand, and he had sent to Sandoval in his despair.
                    But it was Maya who brought him the comfort that he sought. She told him the
                        vision she had seen of the sad and merciful god upon the cross who had
                        plucked her child from the flames and folded him in loving arms. Such a god,
                        she said, was able to save and to forgive.
                    So low was her voice, so earnest were her eyes, that the dying man looked
                        upon her transfixed, and when she ended a smile played upon his features as
                        he sank to sleep.
                    
                    He lingered for some days, but never woke to consciousness.
                    Sandoval remained in Chatemal until after the funeral rites were over, when
                        he and Maya planted a cross upon the grave, and as they gazed upon it he
                        said to her:
                    "With thee beside me it would be a joy even to die."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    CANEK
                    THEN with their train they journeyed back to Uxmal. On
                        their way to Chatemal they had noticed that one of their attendants had
                        disappeared. They had sought him everywhere through the forest, but he was
                        not to be found, and the suspicion of treachery crossed the mind of Sandoval
                        as he thought of the plots of Canek in the past.
                    On the third night, while they slept in a small grove that lay in a narrow
                        valley with thickets round about, Maya was awakened by the cries of owls
                        that seemed to be calling to one another more than they were wont, and she
                        aroused her husband and asked him what might be the meaning of so many
                        voices. Suddenly they saw dark figure gliding from one jungle to another,
                            and they hastily aroused their attendants
                        and stood upon their guard.
                    All at once a hoarse shriek rent the air. There were answering cries from
                        every side and men rushed forth and sought to seize them in the
                        darkness.
                    Had Canek been content to kill, this would have been an easy task, for his
                        men greatly outnumbered the followers of Sandoval. But it was his plan to
                        take his victims alive and offer them in sacrifice when he came home; and
                        this was a harder matter than he had dreamed. Sandoval stood with his back
                        against the broad trunk of an elm where the moon, shining red and low behind
                        him, lighted the forms of his assailants while he remained in darkness. One
                        after another of the men of Peten-Itza as they drew near were struck down by
                        his heavy sword.
                    He could long have defended himself in this manner, but suddenly he saw two
                        of Canek's followers steal up behind Maya, seize her, and drag her
                        away. In an instant he followed and felled one of them to the earth; the
                        other fled.
                    Sandoval now defied the lord of Peten- Itza to single combat, but he was
                        answered by a mocking laugh as his foes drew
                        near from every side to cut off his escape.
                    But some of his followers, who had hidden at the first onset, now began to
                        gather and attack their enemies in the rear, until a sudden panic seized the
                        men of Canek and they fled. The old chief with wild imprecations sought to
                        stay them, but in vain.
                    Finding that his prey could not be taken, he drew his bow and discharged an
                        arrow at Maya; then he too turned and fled. The arrow struck her in the
                        shoulder, but the wound was trifling, and she gave it little heed.
                    Sandoval followed close upon Canek's footsteps and at last brought
                        him to bay. The men of Peten-Itza had disappeared, leaving their chief alone
                        face to face with his assailant. He defended himself with desperate courage,
                        but the struggle was a short one; with a great blow the Spaniard felled him
                        to the earth where he lay still in death with a light of fierce hatred in
                        his staring eyes.
                    Then Sandoval and Maya gathered their followers together and swiftly and
                        silently made their way through the forest back to Uxmal.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    BEREAVEMENT
                    THOUGH Maya's wound was slight it did not heal,
                        and day by day she languished until at last Sandoval knew that the arrow had
                        been dipped in poison and that her life hung by a thread.
                    He sent to Mani for the king's physicians, but scarcely had the
                        courier departed when there came by another road an embassy from Ahpula with
                        an important message.
                    Sandoval went forth to meet the embassy at the city gate, and after he had
                        made obeisance and the envoy had descended from his litter, they walked on,
                        followed by their attendants, to the great building which in past times had
                        been the palace of the king. When they had mounted the steps of the terrace
                        and stood before the middle doorway with the great stone figure of Ahcuitok above them, the ambassador spoke:
                    "I marvel," he said, "that the king's
                        daughter is not at thy side, for the message of Ahpula is for her
                        also."
                    Then Sandoval told him of the struggle in the forest, and Maya's
                        wound and her illness which was so great that she could not come to hear the
                        message of the king.
                    "Therefore to me must thou deliver it and I will tell her
                        all."
                    Then the envoy declared:
                    "Ahpula yearns to look upon the eyes and hear again the soft voice
                        of his daughter. Long since would he have sent for her, but he well knew
                        that Canek would stir the tribes to vengeance. Yet now that fear is past. He
                        sends forgiveness and bids you return with me to Mani and be the same to him
                        that you were in days of old."
                    Had this message come at any other moment it would have filled the heart of
                        the exile with gladness, for he knew how dear to Maya was her
                        father's love and how precious would be the long-delayed
                        forgiveness. But now a fear came with the thought that haunted him,
                        "Is it too late?"
                    
                    He told the ambassador that when the princess grew strong again they would
                        set out together and he sent to Ahpula fit words of love and gratitude. Then
                        bidding his men serve the king's messengers with all they might
                        require, he betook himself to his own abode.
                    The rooks circled mournfully above him in the sultry air, and as he passed
                        through the triangular arch into the inner courtyard of his own palace, he
                        cast his eyes up to the House of the Vestals to look for the smile which
                        always greeted his coming. For even during her illness Maya had reclined in
                        the doorway of her chamber ready to welcome him when he appeared. But now,
                        for the first time in all the years they had lived together, she was not
                        there to watch for his return. A great fear fell upon him; he hurried
                        anxiously up the steps of the terrace and hastily entered the doorway.
                    At first he could see nothing, for his eyes had been blinded by the glare.
                        Then he heard the low sobs of her maidens and gradually he saw the forms
                        gathered around the hammock where she lay; but as he bent over it, and
                        called her by the fond names which had never
                        before failed to draw forth a look of tenderness and an answering caress,
                        she neither moved nor gazed upon him.
                    He could not let her thus slip away without a word; he clung to her and bore
                        her in his arms back and forth across the room; he sought by every device of
                        affection to rouse her even for a moment from her lethargy, but all in vain.
                        Sometimes his efforts were answered by a low moan of pain, and later, when
                        in her delirium she spoke his name and words of tenderness broke from her
                        lips even in madness, he sought to find in these the answer to his
                        entreaties, but her eyes moved elsewhere and it was plain she knew not that
                        he whom she had called was bending over her.
                    At times her words were wild, for the face of Canek was before her eyes, and
                        as he seemed to spring from the flames to clutch her child, a wail of
                        despair broke from her lips.
                    Her husband strove to comfort her with quiet words--words hard to speak while
                        mortal fear and anguish tear the heart--telling her that Canek was no more
                        and all was well. Then she smiled, for the vision  of the Christ form came to her, bearing her boy aloft
                        through the myriads of bright stars into which the gleaming cross had
                        melted, and she reached forth and took her husband's hand and said
                        to him, "Now let us follow them!"
                    Thus the day passed and the long night after it, through which the phantoms
                        chased each other in swift succession across her troubled soul. And
                        Sandoval, as he hung over her and caressed her, prayed no longer that she
                        might recover, but only that her quiet spirit might return, that she might
                        speak with him those final words that are so precious in the hour of
                        parting.
                    Yet what need even of this? Had not all things been already spoken? What
                        further proof could she give of a love that had never faltered; what charge
                        to one who knew during a life of utter confidence the inmost longings of her
                        heart? For no look nor word had ever been put off till the final hour. So
                        clear had been her life, so single was her heart, that her husband had
                        shared with her each thought and wish, even as it was formed. Yet where is
                        he who does not ask again the assurance of affection at a time when this
                        assurance must be the last? So Sandoval
                        hungered for the final words of love.
                    His prayer was answered. On the following day, though she was very weak, her
                        mind was clear and her old smile came back again.
                    He told her of the king's forgiveness and sought to cheer her with
                        dreams of the new life the should live together at her father's
                        court; but the voice that told her this was choking, for he knew even as he
                        spoke that it could never be. And she answered:
                    "Nay, love, not there; for I must sleep a little with my child. But
                        fear not--I will come to thee as I have promised, and in other days we shall
                        still dwell together, not at Mani, but under the tree of life."
                    And while she spoke, the song of a bird, an oriole, was heard without the
                        chamber. She knew the voice and listened, then, as it ceased, the smile upon
                        her lips faded and the soft eyes closed in death.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    THE SONG
                    THOU wilt ask me, reader, why it is that I have brought my
                        tale to such pass that she who was its life and soul should perish. But is
                        not that our common destiny? What more wilt thou have than a score of happy
                        years with one thou cherishest? However brilliant thy career or proud thy
                        station, thus it must end. Shall it be thou or thy beloved who must remain
                        the mourner? Happy the souls that take their flight together!
                    When Maya grew still and cold in her husband's arms, the light of
                        the sun went out with her and all things became grey in dull eclipse. The
                        world was empty. When his child died she had been at his side to comfort
                        him. But now, what refuge was there anywhere?
                    
                    Dazed as he was, with no soft eyes to call him back with the thought
                        "Thou art still with me," he became the prey to desperate
                        resolutions. At first he determined to live no longer. He would join her, he
                        could not remain alone behind. But something which came back to him from the
                        faith of his youth warned him against self-slaughter, and he gave over his
                        intent.
                    One day, while he lay alone within his chamber hopeless and desolate, he saw
                        an oriole flutter through the doorway and light upon a strand of the hammock
                        just above his head. The bird seemed to hesitate, then gathering courage it
                        began to sing, soft and low at first, and as he lay quite still, he could
                        feel it draw closer and even touch his face; then the notes were clear and
                        strong, until at last he knew that the soul of her who had never parted from
                        him in life could not stay away; that Ixtab had changed her into the bird
                        and she had come back to him as she had promised.
                    A wild fancy this, thou sayest? But in what better form might she appear?
                    My love, if thou shalt return from death's dark chamber, come not
                        back to me with the unknown voice of a stranger, nor speak in senseless scrawls, but come as a bird and I
                        will know thee and caress thee and thy notes shall be a thousand times
                        dearer than all messages that may be sent through alien hands. Love needs no
                        alphabet nor syllables. A glance it was that awakened the first throb which
                        stirred my breast. Let the last sound that soothes it be a song that has no
                        words!
                    So it was a bird's voice that brought him back to earth and each
                        morning, when he awoke with tearful memories, the bird fluttered through the
                        doorway of his chamber and sang such notes as came never from the throat of
                        oriole before, notes filled with sweetness, until life grew bright again and
                        hope sprang once more into his breast.
                    When the king heard of Maya's death his heart was filled with
                        sadness, and he sent to her husband asking him to bring her body to Mani and
                        give it fitting burial; but Sandoval would not have it so, for he had laid
                        her as she had bidden him, by the side of her child, nor could he tear
                        himself away from a place made sacred by precious recollections.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    SUBMISSION
                    HE lived alone for many years. During that time great
                        things were happening in Yucatan, yet he heard little of them, for the wars
                        and disasters that followed the coming and going of his countrymen did not
                        disturb the deep calm which brooded over the forsaken city wherein he had
                        made his home.*
                    
                        *In 1527, after Cordova and
                            Grijalva had successively been driven from Yucatan, Francisco de
                            Montejo, who had been authorised by Charles V. to colonise the land and
                            make slaves of the natives who resisted, had made many determined
                            efforts to get a foothold in the country. He had fought with the natives
                            a desperate two day' battle at the town of Aké, in the
                            interior, and although twelve hundred Indians were killed, the invaders
                            were merely able to hold the field without the power to follow the
                            retreating foe.
                        In the following year Montejo established a small settlement at
                            Chichen-Itza; but he divided his forces, sending his lieutenant Davila
                            to Bacalal, on the southeastern coast, to find gold. Those who remained
                            behind were surrounded, but after a desperate battle they escaped at
                            night, tying a hungry dog to the tongue of a large bell, whose ringing
                            deceived the natives while the white men fled to the coast, whence they
                            embared for Campeche, where Montejo was joined by Davila.
                        But this settlement at Campeche did not thrive, and so great were the
                            sufferings of the colonists that they abandoned the peninsula.
                    
                    
                    At last Ahpula died,*
                        and Sandoval was summoned to the obsequies. The body of the king, seated on
                        his throne and clad in royal ornaments, was laid away in the temple, his
                        heart was burned with precious perfumes, the ashes were kept in a gold
                        chalice, the priests sang his praises in poems reciting his great deeds, and
                        a new monarch, a distant scion of the house of Tutul Xiu, followed him for a
                        few brief years upon the throne.
                    But it was not long before the Spaniards came once more to Yucatan, and this
                        time they came to stay. At first a new league was formed against them, but
                        after a fierce battle they remained masters of the field. The tribes,
                        greatly disheartened, scattered to their homes and 
                            *A.D. 1536, as appears from
                                the Maya Chronicle.
                        
                        when, in 1540, the Spaniards founded at
                        Kimpech the city of San Francisco de Campeche and advanced towards Tiho, a
                        large town in the interior, with the intention of there establishing their
                        capital, the young king saw that further resistance would be useless, and he
                        resolved, by allying himself with the invaders and acknowledging the
                        sovereignty of their distant monarch, to make the best terms possible for
                        himself and his subjects. Sandoval was often called to the councils of the
                        new king, where he gave always the same advice--urging friendship and
                        submission to the strangers.
                    Finally in January, 1541, this last of the Tutul Xius, followed by his
                        subject lords, appeared before the young Montejo, Adelantado of Yucatan, and
                        yielded submission to the crown of Castile.
                    He was borne in a superb litter upon the shoulders of his nobles. When he
                        drew near the Spanish leader, he descended, cast to the ground his bow and
                        arrow, and raised his hands.
                    His followers in like manner laid down their arms and touched their fingers
                        to the earth.
                    
                    He brought food to the Spaniards. He knelt before the cross and asked them to
                        tell him of their faith. He stayed long among them, and upon his return to
                        his own city, he sought to bring together the other tribes and make them
                        friends and vassals to the crown of Spain.
                    He sent messengers to many--among them to the lords of Zotuta, but Nachi
                        Cocom, their chief, prepared a wild boar hunt, and invited the
                        king's ambassadors, who, when they gathered for a feast under a
                        great sapote tree, were slaughtered, all but one, whose eyes were put out
                        and who was then sent back to Tutul Xiu to tell what answer the Cocomes made
                        to the base proposal that they should bow to the yoke of the stranger.
                    But the resistance of the Cocomes lasted only a little time, and in 1542, on
                        the site of the Maya city of Tiho, Merida was established and made the
                        capital of the Spanish colony.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXV
                    THE ORIOLE
                    SANDOVAL now received from the king at Mani permission to
                        go to his countrymen in their new city.
                    When he appeared, they were greatly astonished that one who had been so long
                        in the land had come to them, but when men questioned him as to his past
                        life, he answered in the fewest words and told as little as he might. He had
                        been cast ashore, he said, had been a captive, had escaped the doom of
                        sacrifice, had been a slave in the tribe of Taxmar, had fled and gone to the
                        king at Mani. He had been driven from that city and had lived almost alone
                        at Uxmal for many years.
                    Of Maya he spoke not a word, and as no man had a clew to his story, little
                        was learned of what had befallen him.
                    
                    The natives who knew of the episode of his brief godship, did not care to
                        repeat the tale of their own folly. Moreover, during the lapse of years much
                        had been forgotten, so there was little talk of his past career. Some of his
                        countrymen thought, indeed, that there were things in his life which he
                        wished to hide, but in reality his silence was due mainly to the fact that
                        the events of the past had been laid away in one of the precious storehouses
                        of memory, which were not to be thrown open to the world.
                    He dwelt for some years in Merida and became a leading citizen of the Spanish
                        capital. Important matters were confided to him, for he knew the Maya
                        language and the Maya ways as did none other in this infant community, and
                        when the colony had been well established and land for a hacienda had been
                        given to him, it was expected that he would take for his wife some one from
                        among the Spanish families of rank and station who had migrated thither.
                    Among these the family of the Count of Millaflores was perhaps the leading
                        one in the new society of Yucatan. His daughter, "Maria de la Concepcion," or
                        "Conchita" as she was called by her intimates, was a
                        beautiful and accomplished maiden of eighteen summers. Although Sandoval was
                        now of middle age, he was still a man of handsome figure and fine presence,
                        with a romantic past, and more than all he was in prosperous circumstances.
                        It was not therefore surprising that when his eyes fell upon the damsel, she
                        returned his interest and loved him "for the dangers he had
                        passed" with a devotion perhaps greater than that which he had
                        sought to awaken.
                    So quickly do we forget past associations when their objects are no longer at
                        our side, that almost before he realized it he was betrothed and the time
                        was set for the wedding.
                    The day before the appointed ceremony he was taking his afternoon siesta in
                        the garden of his hacienda. The surroundings of his new abode had been laid
                        out with care. The copse had been cleared away, but there were great palms
                        that waved their long leaves above him, and a majestic ceiba, a little way
                        off, stirred its green branches in the wind before his eyes, as he reclined
                        in his hammock and listened to the dripping of
                        the water that fell into an artificial pool near at hand.
                    Yet in spite of his prosperous surroundings he was not happy. A vague unrest
                        troubled him which his recollections of the smiles and bright eyes of
                        Conchita could not drive away.
                    Suddenly he heard in the branches of the ceiba the song of an oriole,--the
                        same, as it seemed to him, that had perched upon his hammock at Uxmal and
                        sung to him in his lonely chamber.
                    He arose and walked quickly through the garden. He sought to stifle the
                        remorse which the song awakened. Surely the link between Maya and the bird
                        was no more than fancy! The wedding was set for the morrow and he could not
                        break faith with his affianced bride.
                    Yet the memory of the song haunted him all through the sleepless night, and
                        he thought he could see the flutter of wings athwart the moon as it rose
                        behind the ceiba.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVI
                    THE NUPTIALS
                    IT was in a grove outside the city of Merida that the
                        nuptials of Sandoval and his young bride were to be solemnised, for the
                        foundations of the cathedral had just been laid and no church had yet been
                        built of sufficient size to hold the throng. An altar had been raised upon a
                        small eminence overlooking the town, and many dignitaries of the church
                        officiated. The new bishop of the province was to receive the sacred
                        vows.
                    The Spaniards in the city had come forth in great numbers, and upon the
                        outskirts of the assemblage were multitudes of natives, drawn thither from
                        curiosity to see the spectacle.
                    The solemn chant of the priests and acolytes had ended, and in the silence
                        that followed, just before the final vows which were to unite Sandoval with his destined bride, there was heard the voice
                        of a bird; and an oriole which had been fluttering in the air now descended
                        and perched upon the hand that held the ring.
                    The apparition startled even the by- standers, for never before had they seen
                        a bird of the forest so daring.
                    But Sandoval alone knew its meaning. A deathly pallor fell upon his face. The
                        scenes of his past life thronged back to him. The present became a puppet
                        show--a dream. It was only that past which had reality--the time when Maya
                        had told him of the great tree in paradise--the time when he had sworn never
                        to forget and had invoked upon himself the most terrible curses if his heart
                        should beat for any other than his Maya bride. And her words echoed in his
                        ears: "If thou shouldst seek another, my voice would choke and my
                        wings would droop and I would hide from thee and mourn."
                    And now indeed the poor bird had hidden in the folds of his garments and the
                        voice which called to him was choking with despair.
                    Then his own words of aforetime re- sounded in
                        his ear as if echo had been chased to her innermost sanctuary:
                    "Nay, I will never leave thee, neither in earth nor in heaven nor
                        amid the pains of hell! Wherever thou art, there will I be also. Beneath the
                        great tree we will dwell together, and thy gods and thy paradise they shall
                        be mine!"
                    Just as the final words was put to him, just as his lips were opening to
                        pronounce the vows, he fell.
                    Every effort to arouse him was in vain, and it was soon clear that he had
                        passed beyond all human aid.
                    Great was the consternation, the assembly broke up in disorder and none could
                        understand the cause of his sudden death. Some said, indeed, that it was a
                        retribution come upon him for deeds of wickedness during his unknown life in
                        the wilderness.
                    Apoplexy, the doctors called it, and so no doubt it was.
                    And those of his household bore him back to his own home. Preparations were
                        made for his burial with all due rites, for Mother Church allowed him a
                        resting-place in holy ground.
                    
                    But those who entered his chamber noticed that two orioles that had been
                        singing in the window took their flight to the great ceiba which shaded the
                        mansion. There the song of the birds resounded loud and clear, and at last
                        side by side they spread their wings and soared away together into the blue
                        sky.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXVII
                    CONCLUSION
                    CONCHITA was swiftly consoled, for a younger and wealthier
                        man soon took the place of the one who had so suddenly failed her.
                    The Spanish power in Yucatan was gradually consolidated and the natives,
                        reduced to vassalage, were treated with that cruelty which has been the
                        shame of Spanish dominion everywhere.
                    The chiefs of Peten-Itza in their island stronghold maintained their
                        independence for some time longer, but toward the end of the seventeenth
                        century, Tayasal too was carried by assault and given to the fames, and a
                        great part of its population was put to the sword.
                    The manuscripts of the Mayas were destroyed by order of the new bishop, and
                            many of the temples were torn down and the
                        stones used in the construction of new cities. Yet Uxmal, which had been
                        already deserted when the invaders came, was suffered to remain, neglected
                        by Maya and Spaniard alike, and its great buildings stand to-day the
                        brightest illustrations of the splendour of aboriginal art.
                    He who looks forth from their terraces over the waste of wilderness finds
                        himself asking, "Where is the great metropolis of which this group
                        of palaces and temples was once the crown and diadem? Where is the Moscow of
                        which this was the Kremlin, the Athens of which this was the Acropolis?
                        Where is the multitude to gaze upon the royal pomp of which this was the
                        setting?"
                    Ere the chill of night shall come, let us climb the steep ruined steps that
                        lead to the House of the Diviner. Yet take heed! One slip will send thee
                        headlong. At the top, the wind blows hard and we must steal cautiously
                        through the arched chambers, from whose doorways the magicians used to read
                        the stars and foretell all things. A good place this for the Black Art even
                        now, if the Black Art can find a refuge anywhere. The ruins lie scattered at our feet and a great past speaks to
                        us in inarticulate accents:
                    "Such was I--such am I to-day. And you who despise my gods and my
                        kings and my prophets--you who say that I am the work of the savage--how
                        will men speak of you after the centuries shall have rolled over your heads
                        and some 'higher civilisation' shall have risen on the
                        ruins of your own? Will the future know more of you than you know of the
                        builders of Uxmal? Are you wiser and worthier than they?"
                
                
                
                    L'ENVOI
                    Wilt thou say, reader, that the story I have told thee is incredible, that in
                        our Western world there were no lands so weird, no caverns so fantastical,
                        no ruins so majestic, no pomp and pageantry like that I have described?
                    I answer thee that I have seen them all. I have trod the terraces and
                        chambers of the palaces, I have lain in the shadows of the senotes and
                        dipped my hot palms in the cool waters of the pools: I have seen with the
                        eye of history the battles, the sacrifices, the stately ceremonies. All but
                        the living actors were before me.
                    And the chief of these, I know her too. For if thou sayest that no Maya ever
                        lived, I will tell thee that I have walked at her side for many years.
                    She is of another race indeed, born under colder skies, but her face and form
                        and bearing, her gentleness, her constancy, and her unfinching heart, these
                        are the same.
                    
                    The birds alone are the children of fancy, and if their notes shall not be
                        heard in the dim future of which we dream so much and know so little, who
                        shall come back from that untrodden realm to tell me I am wrong, and who
                        shall say that Maya's paradise is not as bright a goal for longing
                        hopes as gates of pearl and streets of gold and the eternal monotony of
                        twanging harps around a great white throne?
                
                THE END.
            
        
         
    
