
     ----CITATION---- 
        Foulke, William Dudley, 1848-1935. Masterpieces of the Masters of Fiction: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3913
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                MASTERPIECES OF THE MASTERS OF FICTION
            
            
            
            	ADVERTISEMENT
                OTHER BOOKS BY WILLIAM DUDLEY FOULKE
                SLAV OR SAXON
                LIFE OF OLIVER P. MORTON
                MAYA (A Romance in Prose)
                PROTEAN PAPERS
                ANNOTATED TRANSLATION OF HISTORY OF THE LANGOBARDS BY PAUL THE DEACON
                MAYA (A Dramatic Poem)
                DOROTHY DAY
            
            
            
                
                    MASTERPIECES OF THE MASTERS OF FICTION
                
                BY
                    WILLIAM DUDLEY FOULKE
                
                    NEW YORK
                    THE COSMOPOLITAN PRESS
                    1912
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                Copyright, 1912, by William Dudley Foulke
            
            
            
                MASTERPIECES OF THE MASTERS OF FICTION
                PREFACE
                A SHORT time ago I determined that instead of taking up any new works of fiction
                    I would go over the masterpieces which I had read long since and see what
                    changes time had made in my impressions of them. To do this I chose some forty
                    of the most distinguished authors and decided to select one story from
                    each,— the best one, if I could make up my mind which that was
                    — at all events, one which stood in the first rank of his productions.
                    I determined to read these in succession, one after another, in the shortest
                    time possible, and thus get a comprehensive notion of the whole. Of course under
                    such conditions exhaustive criticism would be out of the question, but I thought
                    that the general perspective and the comparative merits and faults of each work
                    would appear more vividly in this manner than in any other way.
                The productions of living authors were discarded, as well as all fiction in
                    verse.
                Arranged chronologically, the selections I made were as follows:
                
                    
                        1535
                        RABELAIS
                        
                        "Gargantua."
                    
                    
                        1605-1615
                        CERVANTES
                        
                        "Don Quixote."
                    
                    
                        1715-1735
                        LE SAGE
                        
                        "Gil Bias."
                    
                    
                        1719
                        DEFOE
                        
                        "Robinson Crusoe."
                    
                    
                    
                        1726
                        SWIFT
                        
                        "Gulliver's Travels."
                    
                    
                        1733
                        PREVOST
                        
                        "Manon Lescaut."
                    
                    
                        1749
                        FIELDING
                        
                        "Tom Jones."
                    
                    
                        1759
                        JOHNSON
                        
                        "Rasselas."
                    
                    
                        1759
                        VOLTAIRE
                        
                        "Candide."
                    
                    
                        1759-1767
                        STERNE
                        
                        "Tristram Shandy."
                    
                    
                        1766
                        GOLDSMITH
                        
                        "The Vicar of Wakefield."
                    
                    
                        1774
                        GOETHE
                        
                        "The Sorrows of Young Werther."
                    
                    
                        1787
                        SAINT PIERRE
                        
                        "Paul and Virginia."
                    
                    
                        1807
                        CHATEAUBRIAND
                        
                        "Atala."
                    
                    
                        1813
                        AUSTEN
                        
                        "Pride and Prejudice."
                    
                    
                        1813
                        FOUQUE
                        
                        "Undine."
                    
                    
                        1814
                        CHAMISSO
                        
                        "Peter Schlemihl."
                    
                    
                        1820
                        IRVING
                        
                        "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."
                    
                    
                        1820
                        SCOTT
                        
                        "Ivanhoe."
                    
                    
                        1827
                        MANZONI
                        
                        "The Betrothed."
                    
                    
                        1835
                        BALZAC
                        
                        "Eugenie Grandet."
                    
                    
                        1841
                        GOGOL
                        
                        "Dead Souls."
                    
                    
                        1845
                        DUMAS
                        
                        "The Three Guardsmen."
                    
                    
                        1847
                        BRONTE
                        
                        "Jane Eyre."
                    
                    
                        1847
                        MERIMÉE
                        
                        "Carmen."
                    
                    
                        1850
                        DICKENS
                        
                        "David Copperfield."
                    
                    
                        1850
                        HAWTHORNE
                        
                        "The Scarlet Letter."
                    
                    
                        1852
                        THACKERAY
                        
                        "Henry Esmond."
                    
                    
                        1852
                        STOWE
                        
                        "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
                    
                    
                        1853
                        GASKELL
                        
                        "Cranford."
                    
                    
                        1856
                        AUERBACH
                        
                        "Barfüssele."
                    
                    
                        1857
                        VON SCHEFFEL
                        
                        "Ekkehard."
                    
                    
                        1857
                        FEUILLET
                        
                        "The Romance of a Poor Young Man."
                    
                    
                        1857
                        FLAUBERT
                        
                        "Madame Bovary."
                    
                    
                        1859
                        MEREDITH
                        
                        "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel."
                    
                    
                        1861
                        READE
                        
                        "The Cloister and the Hearth."
                    
                    
                        1862
                        HUGO
                        
                        "Les Miserables."
                    
                    
                        1863
                        ELIOT
                        
                        "Romola."!
                    
                    
                        1866
                        DOSTOYEVSKY
                        
                        "Crime and Punishment."
                    
                    
                        1868
                        TURGENIEFF
                        
                        "Smoke."
                    
                    
                        1869
                        BLACKMORE
                        
                        "Lorna Doone."
                    
                    
                        1878
                        TOLSTOI
                        
                        "Anna Karenina."
                    
                    
                        1883
                        STEVENSON
                        
                        "Treasure Island."
                    
                
                
                I think I see many picking out here and there a name, and hear them saying, "What
                    a bad selection! Wilkie Collins ought to be in the list rather than Charles
                    Reade; 'Vanity Fair' ought to be in the place of 'Henry Esmond,' 'Waverly' in
                    the place of 'Ivanhoe'," etc., etc. But if we except two or three names like
                    Manzoni and Gogol, who are not yet estimated at their full value by English and
                    American readers, I think common opinion will justify, in a general way, my
                    catalogue of authors, and I feel sure that the works chosen, if not the
                    masterpieces, are at least fairly typical of each.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    PREFACE
                        5
                    RABELAIS "Gargantua" 11
                    CERVANTES "Don Quixote" 16
                    LE SAGE "Gil Bias" 25
                    DEFOE "Robinson Crusoe" 36
                    SWIFT "Gulliver's Travels" 39
                    PREVOST "Manon Lescaut" 43
                    FIELDING "Tom Jones" 45
                    JOHNSON "Rasselas" 49
                    VOLTAIRE "Candide" 55
                    STERNE "Tristram Shandy" 60
                    GOLDSMITH "The Vicar of Wakefield" 64
                    GOETHE "The Sorows of Young Werther" 72
                    SAINT PIERRE "Paul and Virginia" 76
                    CHATEAUBRIAND "Atala" 79
                    AUSTEN "Pride and Prejudice" 82
                    FOUQUE "Undine" 93
                    CHAMISSO "Peter Schlemihl" 95
                    IRVING "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" 99
                    SCOTT "Ivanhoe" 101
                    MANZONI "The Betrothed" 107
                    BALZAC "Eugenie Grandet" 125
                    GOGOL "Dead Souls" 130
                    DUMAS "The Three Guardsmen" 132
                    BRONTE "Jane Eyre" 134
                    MERIMEE "Carmen" 138
                    DICKENS "David Copperfield" 141
                    HAWTHORNE "The Scarlet Letter" 150
                    THACKERAY "Henry Esmond" 158
                    STOWE "Uncle Tom's Cabin" 176
                    GASKELL "Cranford" 180
                    AUERBACH "Barfüssele" 183
                    
                    VON SCHEFFEL "Ekkehard" 189
                    FEUILLET "The Romance of a Poor Young Man" 192
                    MEREDITH "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" 196
                    READE "The Cloister and the Hearth" 200
                    HUGO "Les Miserables" 209
                    ELIOT "Romola" 215
                    DOSTOYEVSKY "Crime and Punishment" 228
                    TURGENIEFF "Smoke" 231
                    BLACKMORE "Lorna Doone" 237
                    STEVENSON "Treasure Island" 267
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Masterpieces of the Masters of Fiction
                
                    GARGANTUA
                    FRANÇOIS RABELAIS
                    COLERIDGE classed Rabelais among the greatest creative minds of the world,
                        with Shakespeare, Dante, Cervantes, etc. Not many will be found to-day who
                        will agree with such an estimate. Rabelais himself would perhaps laugh at it
                        as heartily as he laughed at the vices and foibles of his time.
                    "Gargantua," a burlesque romance, is the biography of a good-natured giant of
                        that name, the son of King Grangousier, who is born in a remarkable manner
                        out of the left ear of Gargamelle, his mother. The author expresses a doubt
                        whether his readers will thoroughly believe the truth of this strange
                        nativity, but says that it is not impossible with God, and that there is
                        nothing in the Bible against it. He cites the examples of other prodigies
                        and declares that he is not so impudent a liar as Pliny was in treating of
                        strange births. Then follow many absurd and farcical descriptions of the
                        conduct and apparel of the infant giant, his colors and liveries, his wooden
                        horses, and the silly instruction given to him by foolish sophisters. In
                        Paris he steals the bells of Notre Dame to adorn the neck of the hideous
                        great mare upon whose back he has travelled thither, and Master Janotus is
                        sent to him to pronounce a great oration, imploring the return  of the bells. This nonsensical speech is a
                        laughable potpourri of French, Latin, and gibberish. The bells are returned,
                        and now Gargantua submits himself to the government of his new tutor,
                        Ponocrates, who establishes a novel system of instruction for his big
                        pupil.
                    The book gives a detailed description of the ingenious division of time made
                        by this wise preceptor, so that every moment of the day might be devoted to
                        the acquisition of some useful branch of knowledge.
                    A strife arises between the shepherds of the country and some cake-bakers of
                        the neighboring kingdom of Lerne. The cake-bakers, being worsted, complain
                        to Picrochole, their king, who collects an army and invades the country of
                        Grangousier, pillaging and ravaging everywhere. But when the invaders come
                        to steal the grapes of the convent of Seville, the stout Friar John with his
                        "staff of the cross" lays about him energetically dealing death and
                        destruction on every side. Picrochole storms the rock and castle of
                        Clermond, and news is brought to Grangousier of the invasion. The good old
                        king at first tries to conciliate his neighbor, and sends him a great
                        abundance of cakes and other gifts, but the choleric Picrochole will not
                        retire, though he keeps everything that is sent to him. The Duke of
                        Smalltrash, the Earl of Swashbuckler, and Captain Durtaille persuade him
                        that he is about to conquer the world, and there is a long burlesque
                        catalogue of all the countries they are to subdue,  after which they will return, sit down, rest and be merry. But
                        the wise Echephron, another of the king's counsellors, tells him that it
                        will be more prudent to take their rest and enjoyment at once and not wait
                        till they have conquered the world. Meanwhile Gargantua is sent forth
                        against Picrochole. The enemy's artillery has so little power against him
                        that he combs the cannonballs out of his hair. Among other episodes, he
                        unwittingly eats up six pilgrims in a salad, but one of them strikes the
                        nerve of a hollow tooth in his mouth, upon which he takes them all out
                        again. They escape, and then one of them shows the others how their
                        adventure had been foretold by the Prophet David in the Psalms.
                    There is much droll conversation at a feast given by Gargantua to Friar John.
                        The stout friar has many adventures, and plays an important part in the
                        attack upon Picrochole's army, when the poor choleric king flees in disguise
                        and at last becomes a porter at Lyons. Here he is as testy and pettish as
                        ever, and hopes for the fulfillment of a prophecy that he should be restored
                        to his kingdom "at the coming of the Cocklicranes," who it seems could never
                        come at all.
                    Gargantua proclaims amnesty to the vanquished, the spoil is divided and Friar
                        John rewarded by the establishment of the Abbey of Theleme, which is filled
                        with all beautiful things and inhabited by fair knights and ladies who keep
                        no hours nor vigils, take no vows, but enjoy the delights of liberty under
                        the rule, "Do what thou  wilt," spurred by
                        their own instincts to virtuous actions and with no temptation to transgress
                        the laws.
                    In a very attractive prologue to this strange medley, the author sets our
                        curiosity agog with the simile of a philosophical dog and a marrow bone,
                        telling his readers to break the bone and suck out the allegorical sense "or
                        the things proposed to be signified by these Pythagorical symbols." So the
                        world has been trying very hard ever since to guess whether Gargantua was
                        Francis I of France or Henry d'Albret of Navarre; whether Friar John was
                        Cardinal Chatillon or Martin Luther, or both together; whether Picrochole
                        was Charles V or someone else; whether the cake-bakers were Popish priests
                        or anyone in particular; and so on to the end of a very long chapter.
                        Certainly the personages described in this burlesque had to be obscurely
                        drawn in order to protect the author from the dungeon or the stake. In one
                        place Rabelais intimates that he did not mean anything at all by his
                        absurdities. "When I did dictate them I thought thereon no more than you who
                        possibly were drinking the whilst I was. For in the composing of this very
                        lordly book I never lost nor bestowed any more nor any other time than what
                        was appointed to serve me for taking my bodily refection, that is, whilst I
                        was eating and drinking." And indeed "Gargantua" is a work that, like the
                        verses of Ennius to which he alludes, smells much more of the wine than the
                        oil; for, with  all its drollery, and
                        occasional wisdom, there are chapters which seem little less than the
                        products of inebriety. Moreover, the work is defaced, especially the earlier
                        part of it, by a mass of obscenity which is not to be excused either by the
                        manners of the time nor by the exigencies of the story.
                
                
                
                    DON QUIXOTE
                    MIGUEL DE CERVANTES
                    AMONG works of prose fiction "Don Quixote" has undoubtedly the most universal
                        reputation. Mr. Henry Edward Watts, the latest and best translator,
                        considers it "the finest book," and Justin McCarthy, the recent editor of
                        Shelton's version, calls it "the noblest novel" in the world. Probably this
                        would be the verdict of a majority of the best literary critics.
                    The Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance is more widely known and recognized
                        among mankind everywhere than any other single character in fiction. And
                        indeed there has never been any other character more elaborately
                        developed.
                    In the matter of plot, as well as personages, the scope of this work is
                        rather narrow. It is merely a series of adventures, and while the priest,
                        the barber, the bachelor, the duke, the duchess, and many other persons
                        appear incidentally, and while all of these are well sketched, the work
                        would be nothing except for the wonderful sayings and doings of the mad
                        knight and his squire. And the contrast between the two sets forth in the
                        strongest possible relief the characteristics of each. Don Quixote, solemn,
                        tall, lank, "with cheeks that kissed each other on the inside," and  Sancho, short, fat, round-bellied,—
                        the knight filled with fine spiritual fire, his madness enhanced by endless
                        fasts and vigils; the squire sleeping, eating, thinking of nothing but the
                        facts of physical existence,— Don Quixote, the dreamer, the
                        idealist, the gentleman — for there is no one trait which shines
                        through all his madness as unmistakably as his gentility; Sancho, a coarse,
                        sensuous clod, an odd mixture of simplicity and shrewdness, garrulous, full
                        of proverbs, with a rustic and very fleshly philosophy of his own, a squire
                        who sometimes cheats his master with false tales.
                    Don Quixote goes forth upon his battered Rozinante, to redress all wrongs,
                        actual or imaginary, to fight windmills, to engage in desperate battles with
                        flocks of sheep; to sail upon enchanted barks; to fly through the air on a
                        wooden horse; and perform a thousand extravagances, travesties of the
                        impossible prodigies recorded in books of chivalry and enchantment.
                    The description of Don Quixote's madness is masterly. His inability to
                        separate actual occurrences from the figments of his imagination appears
                        with wonderful power; for instance, in the scene of the puppets, where he
                        demolishes the apparatus of the show, and then agrees to pay for the damage,
                        and again refuses when the lady for whom compensation is demanded has been
                        already rescued, fact and fancy contending with each other inextricably in
                        his soul. As a study in psychology, no character of fiction or drama outside
                             side of Shakespeare is at all comparable
                        to "Don Quixote." Yet through all his grotesque hallucinations appears his
                        essential nobility. As Sancho says of him, "He has a soul as clean as a
                        pitcher. He can do no harm to anyone, but good to all. He has no malice at
                        all. A child might persuade him it is night at noonday. And it is for this
                        simplicity I love him like my heartstrings, and cannot be handy at leaving
                        him for all the pranks he plays." Thus do we love the simple-minded, even in
                        madness.
                    One of the clearest evidences of Cervantes' genius is his power to make even
                        the vagaries of a madman so laughable. In any other hands the adventures of
                        Don Quixote would not be funny. I remember once seeing a dramatic
                        representation of the story, in which Henry Irving impersonated the hero. It
                        was well done, but it was not amusing. The poor knight was so utterly
                        wrapped in his hallucinations that he was an object of pity rather than of
                        laughter. But in the novel itself the humor of Cervantes overcomes even our
                        sympathy. The wild reasoning of Don Quixote is often so irresistibly absurd
                        that his madness is forgotten. For instance, he does penance in the Sierra
                        Morena in honor of his Dulcinea, and proposes to imitate Amadis and Orlando,
                        who tore up trees by the roots, slew shepherds, demolished houses, and
                        performed a thousand other extravagances. Sancho remarks that these knights
                        of old had a reason for their follies and penances, but that Don Quixote had
                             none, to which his master replies, "In
                        this consists the refinement of my plan. A knight errant that runs mad with
                        cause deserves no thanks, but to do so without reason is the point, giving
                        my lady to understand what I should perform in the wet, if I do this in the
                        dry."
                    The Spaniards say that "Don Quixote" is untranslatable. Of course a
                        masterpiece of this kind can not be enjoyed to the full, with all its
                        delicate aroma, in any other tongue, and in one sense it can not be fully
                        understood by any one who is not himself a Spaniard, who has not the
                        feelings, the surroundings, and perhaps the prejudices to which the great
                        book was addressed. But, judged by such a standard, what masterpiece of past
                        times can any of us fully enjoy? In another sense, however, a foreigner can
                        enjoy "Don Quixote" better than a Spaniard; for some of its most
                        characteristic features are those which to one who lives amid the same
                        surroundings will pass unobserved. No one can judge of the perspective of a
                        great work unless he be far enough away to see it in its relations to the
                        rest of the world. In this larger sense, I think that Don Quixote can be
                        understood by an American of our century as well as by a Spaniard of the
                        time in which it was written. Something of the details will escape him, but
                        the beauty of the whole may be even more apparent. The things that we lose
                        in translation,— for instance, the sonorous solemnity of the
                        magniloquent diction of Don Quixote,— are atoned for by the fact
                        that Don  Quixote himself is a more distinctive
                        type to us than he could have been to the people of his own age and
                        country.
                    I am not sure but that the Englishman or the American can grasp the sum total
                        of his qualities better through a good translation than even in the
                        original. The Spanish of "Don Quixote" is somewhat archaic, and in places a
                        little obscure, even to the most proficient in the living tongue. So elusive
                        is the pleasure which comes with the dry humor of such a book that it must
                        offer itself spontaneously, it must fit the mood of the reader, it must be
                        the luxury of an idle hour, or much of the charm of it will escape.
                        Therefore it is that I have found in Shelton's translation, and still more
                        in the recent rendering of Mr. Watts, a keener pleasure than I have ever
                        been able to dig out of the original mine.
                    "Don Quixote" is not without great faults. It was written carelessly. This
                        indeed often adds to the naturalness of the descriptions and the situations,
                        but the blemishes are sometimes self-evident and glaring. For instance,
                        after Sancho's ass has been stolen by Gines de Pasamonte, the squire is
                        represented, sometimes as walking, sometimes as riding on the very animal he
                        has lost. Some of Cervantes's commentators, like Clemencin, who are
                        mathematical rather than artistic in their criticisms, call our attention to
                        the numerous incongruities of this sort. But the greatest masters of
                        literature, even Homer and Shake-speare — have been guilty in the
                        same way.
                    
                    Indeed, there is a good deal in "Don Quixote" which reminds one of
                        Shakespeare. Take for instance the following discourse between Don Quixote
                        and Sancho Panza:
                    "Prithee, tell me, hast thou not seen some comedy played wherein are
                        introduced kings, emperors, pontiffs, knights, ladies and divers other
                        personages? One plays the bully, another the knave; one the merchant, one
                        the soldier; others the witty fool and the foolish lover; and, the comedy
                        ended and their apparel put off, all the players remain equal."
                    "Yes, marry have I," answered Sancho.
                    "But the same," pursued Don Quixote, "happens in the comedy and commerce of
                        this world, wherein some play the emperors, others the pontiffs; in short
                        all the parts that can be introduced into a drama; but on reaching the end,
                        which is when life is done, Death strips all of the robes which
                        distinguished them, and they remain equal in the grave."
                    "A brave comparison!" cried Sancho, "though not so new but that I have heard
                        it many and divers times, like that of the game of chess,— how, so
                        long as the game lasts, each piece has its particular office, and the game
                        being finished, they are all mixed, shuffled, and jumbled, and put away into
                        a bag, which is much like putting away life in the grave."
                    "Every day, Sancho," quoth Don Quixote, "thou becomest less simple and more
                        wise."
                    The passages in "Macbeth," "Sleep that knits up the ravelled sleeve of care,"
                        and "The sleeping and the dead are but as pictures," find their counterparts
                        in the following dialogue, in which Sancho says to his master:
                    
                    "I only know that while I sleep I have no fear, nor hope, nor trouble, nor
                        glory; and good luck to him who invented sleep, a cloak which covers all a
                        man's thoughts, the meat which takes away hunger, the water which quenches
                        thirst, the fire which warms the cold, the cold which tempers the heat; to
                        end up, the general coin with which all things are bought, the balance and
                        weight which levels the shepherd with the king and the fool with the wise
                        man. There is only one thing, as I have heard say, is bad about sleep, and
                        it is that it looks like death, for between the sleeping and the dead there
                        is very little difference."
                    The great fault of "Don Quixote" is its excessive prolixity. Provided the
                        best parts might be selected, it would be a better novel if it filled only
                        half the space. The same moralizing by the knight and his squire is too
                        often repeated; the same proverbs come forth again and again. This is the
                        reason why the work is read far less at the present time than it used to be.
                        In these busy days there is not much place for the four volume novel.
                    Then, too, the long episodes, the story of Cardenio, the tale of the captive
                        and of Impertinent Curiosity, would be better told as separate narratives
                        rather than as parts of a book with which they have no proper connection.
                        The introduction of such stories was one of the tricks of the time, but it
                        is an artistic blemish. On the other hand, Cervantes's use of the Moorish
                        historian, Ben Engeli, is a literary device admirably employed, and the
                        point at which he first introduces  Ben
                        Engeli's narrative is a delicious satire upon a literary trick common to
                        novelists even of the present time. For it will be remembered that the
                        terrible conflict between Don Quixote and the Biscayan was left suspended,
                        as it were, in midair, each of the mighty combatants having raised his sword
                        and being prepared to dash at the other, at which point the narrative was
                        interrupted, the author being unable to learn anything of the outcome of the
                        fray until he discovered in the Alcazar of Toledo the manuscript of the
                        Arabian historiographer.
                    "Don Quixote" has been the model upon which many of the best works of fiction
                        have been based. One can see distinct traces of Cervantes's methods in
                        "Pickwick Papers." There are undoubtedly many points of difference between
                        Mr. Pickwick and Don Quixote, yet the points of resemblance are very clear;
                        and Sam Weller corresponds more nearly to Sancho than any character in
                        modern fiction. The lugubrious episodes in the "Pickwick Papers" are not
                        wholly unlike those in "Don Quixote," and the solemnity of these episodes
                        furnishes the same contrast to the merry absurdities of the narrative
                        itself.
                    Ichabod Crane is in some respects a Yankee "Knight of the Sorrowful Figure,"
                        though devoid of the madness and of the high spiritual aims of his Castilian
                        prototype.
                    "Don Quixote," like many other masterpieces, like the "Odyssey," "Hamlet,"
                        "Paradise Lost," and the "Divine Comedy," falters a little  at the end. Cervantes was evidently in a hurry
                        to finish it, and the conversion of the knight upon his death-bed is
                        somewhat sudden. But the defects in this great work are (to use a very
                        hackneyed simile) like the spots upon the sun. It will always remain one of
                        the world's greatest masterpieces.
                
                
                
                    GIL BLAS
                    ALAIN RENÉ LE SAGE
                    IF, as some say, the object of fiction is simply to amuse, no work of fiction
                        has better attained that object than "Gil Blas." It is the greatest and the
                        most celebrated of that class of novels called the novela
                            picaresca, or rogue story, and consists of a succession of the
                        liveliest and merriest incidents, slenderly connected as parts of the
                        autobiography of a Spanish lackey, and narrated in a style that is a model
                        of luminous simplicity. The hero encounters every variety of good and evil
                        fortune, each following the other like the figures of a kaleidoscope. From
                        the moment when, as a simple youth, he is sent forth into the world with a
                        mule and forty ducats, he plunges into the midst of ludicrous adventures. At
                        the first town he entertains at supper a parasite who calls him "the
                        ornament of Oviedo," "the torch of philosophy," "the eighth wonder of the
                        world," and who, after gorging himself at the expense of the young student,
                        laughs in his face at his credulity. He is next decoyed into a cave of
                        robbers, where he is locked in and made to serve as the Ganymede of the
                        band, but before long he escapes and rescues a fair lady, Doña Mencia, who
                        gratefully gives him a thousand ducats and a valuable ring. But he tells of
                        his  good fortune, and is fleeced of his money
                        and his ring in a confidence game skillfully played by one Camilla and by
                        Don Rafael, her pretended brother, acting in concert with his own valet,
                        Ambrose. In his misfortune he meets Fabricio, an old schoolmate, who advises
                        him to become a lackey rather than a tutor, since the former calling opens a
                        better career than teaching to a man of shrewd wit. Gil Blas is convinced,
                        and seeks a situation.
                    His first place is with the fat licentiate, Sedillo, where he serves
                        faithfully and leads a dog's life in hopes of a legacy, as soon as his
                        master shall be carried off with the gout. He gets as the legacy his
                        master's library, consisting of three books, "The Perfect Cook," a work on
                        indigestion, and a breviary. Then he takes a situation with Dr. Sangrado,
                        the physician who has hastened Sedillo's departure from the world, from whom
                        he learns in a word the whole art of healing, to wit, bleeding profusely and
                        administering vast quantities of hot water, a system which Gil Blas puts
                        into practice as Sangrado's deputy, kills most of his patients, and has to
                        flee from Valladolid in the night. After many adventures he arrives at
                        Madrid, becomes the servant of Don Mathias de Silva, a dissolute young
                        nobleman, and learns much of the ways of the world. Dressed in his master's
                        clothes, he makes love to a great lady, as he supposes, but finds that she
                        is Laura, the maid of the actress Arsenia, whom his master visits. Don
                        Mathias is killed in a duel, whereupon  our
                        hero takes service with the actress, and has fine times with his dear Laura,
                        but at last leaves the place because he is unwilling "to live any longer
                        with the seven mortal sins." Next he takes a situation with Don Vincent de
                        Guzman, fancies that his master's daughter Aurora is in love with him, and
                        makes a great fool of himself at a midnight interview, where she seeks his
                        aid in behalf of her passion for Don Luis Pacheco. A very pretty story
                        follows of her efforts in the guise of a man to inspire Pacheco's love,
                        efforts which are not unlike those of Rosalind with Orlando, and which in
                        like manner are crowned with success. Gil Blas then goes to live with
                        Pacheco's uncle, an asthmatic old man, who looks "like the resurrection of
                        Lazarus," but who loves the young and beautiful Euphrasia. Gil Blas finds
                        another gallant hidden in her room, and tells his master, but he is
                        dismissed for his pains.
                    Our hero now renders a service to a young nobleman, Don Alphonso de Leyva,
                        who is a fugitive from justice, and goes with him to a cave, where Don
                        Raphael and Ambrose are found disguised as hermits, and the former gives a
                        graphic account of his past life and rogueries. At first Gil Blas and Don
                        Alphonso join them in their rascally enterprises. They all array themselves
                        as inquisitors, and proceed to appropriate the property of Samuel Simon, a
                        converted Jew, whom they charge with relapsing into heresy. The questions
                        propounded in behalf of the Holy Office are highly grotesque. But neither
                        Gil  Blas nor Don Alphonso are willing to
                        continue such a life, so they part from their companions, and Don Alphonso,
                        who is soon after happily married to Seraphina (quite a long love story
                        hangs thereby), makes Gil Blas the intendant of his castle. But Gil Blas
                        quarrels with Seraphina's maid, whereupon he leaves the service of his
                        friend and betakes himself to Granada, where he obtains a place as secretary
                        of the archbishop. The description of the learned prelate, short, fat, and
                        very vain of his oratorical gifts, is extremely lifelike, and the following
                        scene, where he requires Gil Blas to give him a warning of his failing
                        powers, is deservedly celebrated:
                    One evening he repeated before me with enthusiasm a homily which he intended
                        to pronounce next day in the cathedral. He was not contented with asking me
                        what I thought of it in a general way; he obliged me to single out the
                        particular places which I most admired. I had the good luck to mention his
                        favorite passages, those which he looked upon as the best. By this means I
                        passed in his judgment for a man who had a delicate knowledge of the true
                        beauties of a work. "That," he cried, "is what you call having taste and
                        sentiment! Go to, my friend, I assure you, you have not got Boeotian ears."
                        In a word, he was so well satisfied with me that he said to me, with some
                        vivacity, "Gil Blas, give thyself no uneasiness about thy fortune. I
                        undertake to make it agreeable. I love thee, and as a proof of my affection,
                        make thee my confidant. . . . Listen with attention to what I am going to
                        say to thee. My chief pleasure consists in preaching. The Lord gives a
                        blessing to my homilies. They touch the hearts of sinners and  make them seriously reflect and have recourse
                        to penitence. I have the satisfaction of seeing a miser, terrified by the
                        images which I represent to his avarice, open his treasures and squander
                        them with a prodigal hand. I have also turned a voluptuary from his
                        pleasures, filled hermitages with the ambitious, and strengthened in her
                        duty a wife who had been shaken by the allurements of a lover. These
                        conversions, which are frequent, ought of themselves to arouse me to work.
                        Nevertheless, I will confess my weakness, I propose to myself another
                        reward, a reward which the delicacy of my virtue reproaches me with in vain;
                        I mean the esteem of the world for fine polished writing. The honor of being
                        regarded a perfect orator has many charms for me. My works are found equally
                        strong and delicate, but I would like to avoid the fault of good authors who
                        write too long, and I would retire with all my reputation. Therefore, my
                        dear Gil Blas," continued the prelate, "I exact one thing of thy zeal. When
                        thou shalt perceive that my pen smacks of old age, when thou shalt see my
                        genius flagging, don't fail to advise me of it. I do not trust my own
                        judgment upon that point. My self-love may deceive me. That observation
                        requires a disinterested mind, and I make choice of thine, which I know is
                        good. I will rely upon thy judgment. . . . Do not fear to be frank and
                        sincere, for I shall receive thy advice as a mark of thy affection for me.
                        Besides, thy own interest is concerned; if, unfortunately for thee, it
                        should come to my ears that they say in the city my discourses have no
                        longer their wonted force and it is high time for me to rest, I declare to
                        thee plainly that thou shalt lose my friendship as well as the fortune I
                        have promised. Such will be the fruit of thy foolish discretion."
                    After the bishop has had an attack of apoplexy, 
                        and the time comes for Gil Blas to perform his duty, this is what
                        happens:
                    The only thing that embarrassed me now was how to break the ice. Luckily the
                        orator himself extricated me from that difficulty, by asking what people
                        said of him, and if they were satisfied with his last discourse. I answered
                        that his homilies were always admired, but in my opinion the last had not
                        succeeded so well as the rest, in affecting the audience. "How, friend!"
                        replied he, with astonishment, "has it met with any Aristarchus?" "No, sir,"
                        said I, "by no means; such works as yours are not to be criticised;
                        everybody is charmed with them. Nevertheless, since you have laid your
                        injunctions upon me to be free and sincere, I will take the liberty to tell
                        you that your last discourse, in my judgment, has not altogether the energy
                        of your other performances. Are you not of the same opinion?"
                    My master grew pale at these words; and said, with a forced smile, "So then,
                        Mr. Gil Blas, this piece is not to your taste?" "I don't say so, sir," cried
                        I, quite disconcerted; "I think it excellent, although a little inferior to
                        your other productions." "I understand you," he replied, "you think I am
                        failing, don't you? Come, be plain; you believe it is time for me to think
                        of retiring." "I should not have been so bold," said I, "as to speak so
                        freely, if your grace had not commanded me; I do no more, therefore, than
                        obey you; and I most humbly beg that you will not be offended at my
                        freedom." "God forbid," cried he with precipitation, "God forbid that I
                        should find fault with it. In so doing, I should be very unjust. I don't at
                        all take it ill that you speak your sentiment; it is your sentiment only
                        that I find bad. I have been most egregiously deceived in your narrow
                        understanding."
                    
                    Though I was disconcerted, I endeavored to find some mitigation, in order to
                        set things to rights again; but how is it possible to appease an incensed
                        author, one especially who has been accustomed to hear himself praised? "Say
                        no more, my child," said he, "you are yet too raw to distinguish the true
                        from the false. Know that I never composed a better homily than that which
                        you disapprove; for my genius, thank Heaven, hath as yet lost nothing of its
                        vigor. Henceforth I will make a better choice of a confidant, and keep one
                        of greater ability than you. Go," he added (pushing me by the shoulders out
                        of the room), "go tell my treasurer to give you a hundred ducats, and may
                        Heaven conduct you with that sum. Adieu, Mr. Gil Blas, I wish you all manner
                        of prosperity, with a little more taste."
                    And so the comedy goes on. One new face after another appears on the scene,
                        among them Captain Hannibal Chinchilla, with monstrous moustache, who has
                        left an eye in Naples, an arm in Lombardy, and a leg in the Low Country;
                        then Count Galiano, who is fonder of his monkey than of his servants. Our
                        hero becomes one of the secretaries of the prime minister, the Duke of
                        Lerma, where he acquires great honor, but for a long time, no pay. Finally
                        he sells his influence, gets into court intrigues, rises step by step, until
                        he is about to marry the daughter of a rich jeweller, when he is arrested
                        and thrown into the tower of Segovia. Here he is found by his faithful valet
                        Scipio, who gets him released. He now determines to renounce the court
                        forever, and his old friend Don Alphonso gives him a small estate at Lirias.
                        But when the new king comes in, Gil  Blas is
                        tempted back again, rises rapidly under Count Olivares, and when this
                        minister falls, follows him into retirement. Upon the death of the count,
                        Gil Blas returns to Lirias, where his marriage and his happy life with his
                        wife, Dorothea, close the story.
                    Many of the personages of the tale reappear at the most unlooked for places
                        and in the most unexpected characters. For instance, the two rascals, Don
                        Raphael and Ambrose, turn up as monks in a convent, where they have led a
                        life of great piety and penitence for over a year. But Don Raphael is the
                        treasurer and Ambrose is the porter of the monastery, and soon these worthy
                        brothers disappear with all the funds. They come to their deserts, however,
                        for the last that is seen of them they are walking with other culprits to an
                            auto da fe, their heads decorated with the carochas or pasteboard caps upon which are painted the
                        flames and devils of eternal punishment.
                    Another interesting character who comes in at different parts of the story is
                        the schoolmate of Gil Blas, Fabricio, the son of the barber Nunez. At first
                        a valet, he next turns up as a poet, having composed a worthless comedy
                        which was a great success, from which he judged the public was a good milch
                        cow. Some amusing descriptions follow of Fabricio's opinion as to what
                        constitutes a fine style. He reads a sonnet which Gil Blas cannot
                        understand, but the son of the barber Nunez insists that this shows its
                        excellence — that  obscurity is the
                        charm of all works that aim to be sublime, and that it is quite enough if
                        the poet thinks they have a meaning. There are amusing portraits of
                        Fabricio's friends, who imagine themselves great authors and who dispute and
                        fight at their host's table over the comparative merits of their wretched
                        productions. Next Fabricio is found in the hospital; he has abandoned the
                        Muses and written an ode to bid them an eternal adieu. But as soon as he is
                        well he is back at his old occupation, and gets a place with a liberal
                        patron, Gomez de Ribera. He writes a play, which, being fortunately hissed
                        and hooted by the populace, gets him a good pension from his patron, who
                        obstinately admires it and says, "Victrix causa Diis placuit
                            sed victa Catoni." There is an amusing account of a dinner which
                        Fabricio gives to his literary friends, where they discuss the question what
                        constitutes the chief interest in the Iphigenia of Euripides, one of the
                        guests solemnly maintaining that it was not the peril of the heroine, but
                        the wind. "I take the part of the Greeks," says Melchior de Villegas. "I
                        espouse their purpose. I only wish for the departure of their fleet, and I
                        look with an indifferent eye upon Iphigenia in her peril, since her death is
                        a means of obtaining from the gods a favorable wind."
                    Le Sage is almost as hard upon the doctors as Moliére. Dr. Sangrado has
                        become a type. He was so expeditious that he did not often give time for any
                        of his patients to call a notary in order to 
                        make a will. After they had been bled to death, he always insisted that they
                        died because they had not been bled enough and had not taken enough hot
                        water. The doctor admitted to Gil Blas that he did not often cure his
                        patients, and that if he were not so sure of his principles he might have
                        been tempted to think that his bleeding and hot water had really injured
                        them, but that he could not change his methods because he had published a
                        book! In his last interview with Gil Blas, the good doctor (now retired from
                        practice) deplores the decadence of medicine, but is caught by his own pupil
                        drinking wine in violation of his own precepts.
                    All through the book stories of the events of their own lives are told by the
                        principal characters. The robbers in the cave, Doña Mencia, Don Alphonso,
                        Don Raphael, Scipio, and others, all give us their histories, which resemble
                        in miniature the principal narrative. The novel is a very long one, and
                        although it is well written everywhere, the latter part contains some
                        incidents which seem like repetitions, and the interest is not held quite up
                        to the standard of the earlier books.
                    "Gil Blas" is an admirable prose satire, a satire written with the light
                        raillery of Horace rather than the invective of Juvenal. It sparkles
                        everywhere with French wit, and though the scene is laid in Spain (the model
                        for that kind of story being the early Spanish tales like "Lazarillo de
                        Tormes"), yet the style and the characters  are
                        essentially French, and many of the latter are taken from the acquaintance
                        of the author himself. The illusion, however, is well maintained, and it is
                        only upon rare occasions (such as the raillery of the petits
                            maîtres) that one notices characteristics which do not seem quite
                        at home in Spain. Near the close of the book there are a number of
                        historical characters (Spanish, of course), but these are by no means the
                        liveliest or best. Indeed, it may well be doubted whether "Gil Blas" has not
                        rather suffered than gained by the introduction of its historical
                        features.
                    I have noticed that while I can enjoy "Don Quixote" perhaps better in the
                        translation than the original, "Gil Blas," on the other hand, sounds more
                        natural to me in a Spanish version than in the original French. This may be
                        mere fancy, or perhaps it may be attributed to this, that "Gil Blas," being
                        a foreign production, seems more natural after having been acclimated, as it
                        were, by translation into the language of the country in which its scenes
                        are laid. "Don Quixote," on the other hand, being thoroughly Spanish does
                        not lose its national characteristics, no matter what the language in which
                        it is communicated to the reader.
                
                
                
                    ROBINSON CRUSOE
                    DANIEL DEFOE
                    THE main feature of this story — an account of the efforts of a
                        castaway to live comfortably without human aid,—is extremely
                        attractive to the young. Many of the scenes are very vivid,—the
                        shipwreck, the lonely island, the birds startled at the sound of the gun,
                        the wildcat that observes the new intruder; his efforts to provide for
                        himself food, clothing, and shelter; the construction of his strange
                        dwelling, the planting of his crops, the care of his goats, the building of
                        his canoe, and most of all, the account of the wild man Friday, whom he
                        secures for his servant,—all these things are ingeniously and
                        attractively described. But the repetitions which occur throughout the book
                        make it in places very tedious. Crusoe tells us in his diary the same story
                        which he has already related in the preceding narrative; he moralizes again
                        and again upon his folly in disregarding the advice of his good father; he
                        computes over and over the evils and the blessings that have befallen him;
                        and tells many times and at great length the story of how he became a
                        Christian and learned to pray. Much of the book is a sermon of Puritan
                        dimensions. This is one of the works where the 
                        abridgement is better than the original. The homilies are commonplace, there
                        are few striking passages and the style, though occasionally picturesque, is
                        often dry and involved.
                    Of course in such a work there can be little portraiture of character.
                        Robinson Crusoe himself is not a specially interesting person. His ingenuity
                        is all that attracts us. In one or two places his jumbled motives are
                        described with unconscious naïveté. For instance, he says,
                        when he saw Friday escaping from the two savages who had intended to make a
                        meal of him: "It came very firmly upon my thoughts, and indeed
                        irresistibily, that now was the time to get me a servant and perhaps a
                        companion or assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence to save
                        this poor creature's life." So he killed the pursuers and appropriated
                        Friday.
                    The description of Friday is well conceived. This interesting barbarian
                        worships his master's gun and talks to it, desiring it not to kill him. He
                        says of Benamuckee, the creator, "All things say 'Oh!' to him," and the
                        objections of this child of nature to his master's theology are very
                        lifelike. "If God much stronger than the devil, why God no kill the devil,
                        so make him no more do wicked?" And after Crusoe had replied, "God will at
                        last punish him severely; he is reserved for the judgment and is to be cast
                        into the bottomless pit, to dwell with everlasting fire," Friday's rejoinder
                        has never yet, I think, been  successfully
                        answered,—"Why not kill the devil now, not kill
                        great ago?" It was natural that Crusoe should say, "Here I was run down
                        again by him to the last degree."
                
                
                
                    GULLIVER'S TRAVELS
                    JONATHAN SWIFT
                    I SUPPOSE the human mind is naturally inclined to a belief in dwarfs and
                        giants. There are legends about them in the folk-lore of nearly every
                        people. It requires only an exaggeration of the things we know to believe in
                        larger men and smaller men than we have ever seen. In "Gulliver's Travels"
                        Swift has worked out the details of comparative size with great
                        particularity, and the book is an illustration of the principle that even a
                        palpable fiction may be made so definite and circumstantial that it will
                        almost command belief.
                    The figure of the great Man-Mountain dragging the tiny fleet of Lilliput is
                        vivid and lifelike, and when in Brobdignag the same giant becomes a helpless
                        dwarf, is carried like a mouse in the mouth of a dog, and has fierce
                        struggles with a frog and a rat, the scenes do not seem at all impossible.
                        The art of the story-teller gives probability to the wildest fancies, and
                        you can hardly doubt, as you read, that the kingdoms of the big people and
                        the little people must have existed, so plain are the scenes before your
                        eyes.
                    But Swift's description of the physical characteristics of these peoples is
                        not more vivid than his  account of their
                        customs and social peculiarities.
                    Much of his satire was meant to set off certain follies of his own time, but
                        to us the most valuable part of it is that which portrays the general
                        frailties of humanity. He holds up to nature a mirror which, while it
                        distorts the features a little, still makes the caricature extremely
                        lifelike. Even where the Lilliputians are most absurd we recognize their
                        similarity to ourselves. The quarrels between the partisans of low and high
                        heeled shoes, the revolution and obstinate war concerning the proper manner
                        of opening an egg, are not a whit more nonsensical than some of our own
                        social and theological controversies. The Lilliputians bury their dead with
                        the head down in order that the body may be in the right position for the
                        resurrection, just as the Mahometan faces Mecca in his prayers, the
                        Christian builds his church according to certain points of the compass, and
                        the ritualist makes his genuflexions in carefully prescribed forms, for
                        reasons quite as cogent and unanswerable.
                    The "little people" well knew there were no other regions of the earth than
                        Lilliput and Ble-fuscu, and here, too, we are like them. Most of us consider
                        that all there is of importance in the universe is that which falls within
                        our own spheres of observation.
                    No one can read Swift's story without reflecting that our own little world
                        must seem much like Lilliput to the great eye which looks upon this  planet as only one among the islands of the
                        firmament.
                    In Laputa we see ourselves even more clearly. We can find counterparts of the
                        great lord of wide attainments and eminent services, who was accounted
                        ignorant and stupid because he had so ill an ear for music that he beat time
                        in the wrong place. The philosophers who moved about the earth with one eye
                        turned inward and the other upward toward the zenith, and who constantly
                        required a flapper to bring them to their senses, are old and familiar
                        acquaintances.
                    The proposition to impose a tax upon men's vices has been put into practice
                        many a time, and the scheme of a general raffle to secure the prizes of
                        patronage would seem to be a tolerable refuge from our former system of
                        political appointments.
                    But all through "Gulliver's Travels" the folly and wickedness of men is
                        greatly overdrawn, and in the final voyage to the country of the Houyhnhnms
                        the colors are quite too dark to be truthful. This part of the book is not a
                        mere satire, but a malignant invective against humanity, so bitter that it
                        ceases to be either attractive or convincing. The lawyers sell out to the
                        highest bidder, the doctors kill their patients to justify their own
                        prognostications; all mankind is vile — worse than the
                        beasts,— until we begin to feel an aversion for an author whose
                        judgment has been so greatly distorted by his own malevolence. We can not
                        help inferring that he who attributes such 
                        qualities to his fellow-creatures must himself have a large share of them;
                        and it is not surprising to find great irregularities and scandals in the
                        life of Swift, nor to learn that at last his mind flickered out in
                        imbecility.
                
                
                
                    MANON LESCAUT
                    THE ABBÉ PRÉVOST
                    WHAT is the subtle charm of "Manon Lescaut" which has given it the place of a
                        classic in French fiction, and which causes it to be read at the present
                        time with the same delight as when it was written? It does not sparkle with
                        wit, nor is it filled with wisdom. The heroine is far from being an
                        estimable character, and the poor hero, the Chevalier des Grieux, is
                        admirable only in one thing — in his constant and self-sacrificing
                        devotion to the unworthy object of his passion.
                    He meets her in the courtyard of an inn at Passy. It is a case of love at
                        first sight. They flee from the inn together, and Manon becomes his
                        mistress. The youth is ardent but inexperienced, while the girl, though no
                        older in years, is far maturer, more subtle and self-asserting. It is not
                        many weeks before she forsakes him for a more advantangeous connection. For
                        a long time he is in despair at her faithlessness. At last he enters upon a
                        regular life, and becomes a student in a theological seminary. On the day of
                        his graduation she comes to him again. In a moment all his good resolutions
                        are flung to the winds and he falls at once under her influence. They live
                        for a time upon the money she has acquired from a more opulent lover, but it
                        is  stolen, and he betakes himself to the
                        gambler's expedients to restore their shattered fortunes. She leads him into
                        evil courses, and many are the tricks they play upon her other admirers.
                        Twice they are thrown into prison, and on the last occasion, to gratify the
                        revenge of a defrauded and disappointed suitor, Manon is sent with a chain
                        gang to the French settlement at New Orleans. Her lover goes with her, and
                        after they are established in their distant abode they decide to invoke the
                        aid of the church upon their union and to become man and wife. But the
                        governor of the province has other views for Manon, and desires to marry her
                        to his nephew. A duel follows, and the Chevalier des Grieux is forced to
                        flee. Manon accompanies him to the wilderness, but, unable to endure the
                        fatigues and perils of such a life, she expires in the arms of her
                        lover.
                    This sounds like rather poor material for a novel, yet so charmingly and
                        simply is the story told, so deep and so natural is the Chevalier's passion,
                        that he invests his wayward mistress in our eyes with the same charms that
                        he sees in her himself, until we pardon the infidelities of the beautiful
                        creature almost as readily as he.
                
                
                
                    TOM JONES
                    HENRY FIELDING
                    THERE are some who insist that Fielding's "Tom Jones" has not been surpassed
                        by the work of any of the later novelists.
                    I confess that on the second reading of this story I failed to find in either
                        plot or portraiture that excellence which would entitle the book to take a
                        preëminent rank among works of fiction. In the succession of adventures
                        which compose the tale there is a recurrence of incidents which resemble
                        each other so closely that they cease to be novel or attractive.
                        Conversations are usually interrupted by the unexpected appearance of some
                        one not desired, or else by an "uproar" followed by a fight, until the
                        repetition becomes monotonous. There is not a character in the book capable
                        of arousing any strong feeling of admiration or sympathy.
                    Sophia Western is intended to be amiable and attractive, though she gives
                        little evidence of any remarkable or alluring qualities in what she says or
                        does. Her sufferings are hardly great enough to cause distress to the
                        reader, and the manner in which she finally agrees to wed her scapegrace of
                        a lover, without waiting for the probationary year which she had first
                        required, does not betaken any great constancy or strength of purpose.
                    
                    Tom Jones himself is not beset by those overpowering temptations and strong
                        passions which might in a way excuse his scandalous behavior. He is indeed
                        warm-hearted, courageous, and fond of his benefactor, Mr. Allworthy, and he
                        is apparently somewhat attached even to the young woman to whom he is
                        continually unfaithful. If he has other excellences, they do not appear,
                        while his vices are conspicuous and repulsive. A thoroughly interesting
                        character can not be made out of such material.
                    On the other hand, hypocrisy becomes living flesh and blood in the person of
                        the discreet, pious, treacherous, cold-blooded Blifil, who "visited his
                        friend Jones but seldom, and never alone," and "cautiously avoided any
                        intimacy lest it might contaminate the sobriety of his own character."
                    The most picturesque person in the book is undoubtedly Squire Western, with
                        his senseless prejudices and his wild outbreaks of passion.
                    But if we leave the characters and incidents out of the question, there is a
                        good deal of delightful reading in the book. The author is a consummate
                        master of English. I began "Tom Jones" just after finishing "David
                        Copperfield," and the transition from the style of Dickens to that of
                        Fielding was a refreshing surprise. The chapters which are introductory to
                        each of the so-called "books" of the novel are intended, as the author tells
                        us, to set off the rest by reason of their dulness. Some of them are in fact
                        a little tedious, but many are pleasant excursions into fields of  criticism and satire which mark the author as
                        an essayist of the first order. The mock-heroic manner in which he describes
                        the methods of his own work, the burlesque praises which he bestows upon it,
                        and his contempt for his critics, are very amusing.
                    "This work," he says, "may indeed be considered as a great creation of our
                        own, and for a little reptile of a critic to presume to find fault with any
                        of its parts without knowing the manner in which the whole is connected, and
                        before he comes to the final catastrophe, is a most presumptuous
                        absurdity."
                    In another place he gives a comic justification of plagiarism from classical
                        authors:
                    "The ancients," he says, "may be considered as a rich common where every
                        person who has the smallest tenement in Parnassus hath a free right to
                        fatten his muse." "The writers of antiquity were so many wealthy squires
                        from whom the poor might claim an immemorial custom of taking whatever they
                        could come at, so long as they maintained strict honesty among
                        themselves."
                    His use of epic diction in the description of the commonplace is sometimes
                        irresistibly comic,— for example, the following on the fight of
                        Mollie Seagrim in the churchyard:
                    "Recount, O Muse, the names of those who fell on this fatal day. First, Jemmy
                        Tweedle felt on his hinder head the direful bone. Him the pleasant banks of
                        sweetly winding Stour had nourished, where he first learnt the vocal art,
                        with which, wandering up and down at wakes  and
                        fairs, he cheered the rural nymphs and swains, when upon the green they
                        interweaved the sprightly dance, while he himself stood fiddling and jumping
                        to his own music. How little now avails his fiddle! He thumps the verdant
                        floor with his carcass."
                    Contrary to the general opinion, I think that Fielding is entitled to far
                        more praise for the literary quality which pervades his novel than for its
                        "realism" and "fidelity to nature" which are the claims of most of its
                        admirers.
                
                
                
                    RASSELAS
                    DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON
                    DR. JOHNSON is one of the few men whose reputation is due, not so much to his
                        writings (which are generally the source of all permanent renown in a
                        literary man) as to his conversation and his peculiarities as recorded by
                        his wonderful biographer — things which in most men are the source
                        of a very limited and evanescent fame.
                    It is not intended here to dispute the conclusions of Macaulay that he was
                        both a great and a good man, but merely to point out how little good work he
                        has put forth to justify his prodigious reputation. For instance, he
                        compiled a a dictionary; and although it was never a very good dictionary,
                        and is now quite obsolete, yet the memory of the tremendous stir it made has
                        lasted down to the present time. He wrote some annotations of Shakespeare's
                        plays, which show that he had a very limited understanding of their meaning,
                        yet his observations have been more gennerally quoted than those of
                        commentators far more accurate and discerning. He entered the field of
                        fiction and wrote "Rasselas," and there are very few novels (if "Rasselas"
                        can be called a novel at all) which upon their intrinsic merits less deserve
                        an extravagant reputation as one of the classics of our literature.
                    The plot is the slenderest possible. Rasselas, 
                        the fourth son of the emperor of Abyssinia, is confined within the "Happy
                        Valley," from which exit is impossible, and, wanting nothing, naturally
                        suffers from ennui. He spends twenty months in fruitless
                        imaginings, and then four months more in resolving to lose no more time in
                        idle resolves, when he is awakened to more vigorous exertion by hearing a
                        maid who had broken a porcelain cup remark, "What cannot be repaired is not
                        to be regretted." Then for a few hours he "regretted his regret," and from
                        that time bent his whole mind to the means of escape. He spent ten months
                        trying to find a way out (a job which would be laughed at by an able-bodied
                        member of the Alpine Club) then he betook himself to an inventor of a flying
                        machine, who of course came to grief. Finally a poet, named Imlac, told
                        Rasselas of his extensive travels, and they received from the conies, who
                        had "dug holes tending upwards in an oblique line," a hint as to the means
                        of escape, of which Dr. Johnson gives the following rather foggy
                        description: "By piercing the mountain in the same direction, we will begin
                        where the summit hangs over the middle part and labor upwards till we issue
                        up behind the prominence." The two now proceed to tunnel the mountain, and
                        Nekayah, the prince's sister, with her favorite maid, Pekuah, accompany them
                        to the outside world. They journey to Cairo, where they engage in the search
                        for happiness,—philosophy, the pastoral life, material prosperity,
                        solitude, the life led "according to nature," the splendor  of courts, the modesty of humble life,
                        marriage, and celibacy, all being successively examined and found wanting.
                        They visit the pyramids, and here Pekuah is carried away by a band of Arabs,
                        but she is afterwards ransomed and relates her adventures (which are not
                        interesting) at considerable length. They admire the learning and happiness
                        of a certain astronomer, but Imlac finds out that he is crazy; they consult
                        an old man whose wisdom has deeply impressed them, but who can give them
                        little comfort; they discuss the merits of conventual life; finally they
                        visit the catacombs, where Imlac discourses on the nature of the soul; and
                        at "the conclusion in which nothing is concluded" (for this is the title of
                        the last chapter), Pekuah thinks she would like to be the prioress of a
                        convent, Nekayah wants to learn all the sciences and found a college,
                        Rasselas desires a little kingdom where he can administer justice, while
                        Imlac and the astronomer (who has now recovered his right mind) "were
                        contented to be driven along the stream of life without directing their
                        course to any particular port." They all know that none of their wishes can
                        be gratified, so they resolve to go home. This conclusion might have been
                        inserted almost anywhere else in the book with equal propriety.
                    The story is a mere thread upon which is hung a succession of reflections and
                        homilies, some of which are shallow, many common-place and trite, and only a
                        few are at the same time striking, original, and worthy of remembrance.
                    
                    The author maintains the existence of ghosts because belief in them is
                        supported by the "concurrent and unvaried testimony of all ages and of all
                        nations," and such an opinion "could become universal only by its truth!
                        "
                    There is very little humor to be found in the ponderous moralizing of this
                        book. There is, however, a touch of quaint satire upon the theories of
                        contemporary French philosophy, that deserves to be remembered. Rasselas is
                        listening to a philosopher who advises his hearers to "throw away the
                        incumbrance of precepts" and carry with them "this simple and intelligible
                        maxim that 'deviation from nature is deviation from happiness.'" He asks
                        what it is to live according to nature, and the philosopher answers:
                    "'To live according to nature is to act always with due regard to the fitness
                        arising from the relations and qualities of causes and effects; to concur
                        with the great and unchangeable scheme of universal felicity; to cooperate
                        with the general disposition and tendency of the present system of
                        things.'
                    "The prince soon found that this was one of the sages whom he should
                        understand less as he heard him longer. He therefore bowed and was silent;
                        and the philosopher, supposing him satisfied, and the rest vanquished, rose
                        up and departed with the air of a man that had coöperated with the present
                        system."
                    The style of "Rasselas" (like that of everything Dr. Johnson wrote) is
                        stilted and affected.
                    
                    In the Happy Valley "every blast shook spices from the rocks and every month
                        dropped fruits." Its inhabitants "wandered in the gardens of fragrance and
                        slept in the fortresses of security." When Rasselas reaches Cairo he tells
                        us of the gilded youth of that metropolis, that "their mirth was without
                        images, their laughter without motive. . . . The frown of power dejected and
                        the eye of wisdom abashed them."
                    Of a professor who there lectured on philosophy, Rasselas declares: "He
                        speaks, and attention watches his lips. He reasons, and conviction closes
                        his periods." This might do in an oration, but it is pretty poor for a
                        novel. But worst of all, Dr. Johnson puts into the mouth of the young and
                        innocent Nekayah the following words upon the subject of marriage:
                    "When I see and reckon the various forms of connubial infelicity, the
                        unexpected causes of lasting discord, the diversities of temper, the
                        oppositions of opinion, the rude collisions of contrary desire where both
                        are urged by violent impulses, the obstinate contests of disagreeable
                        virtues where both are supported by consciousness of good intention, I am
                        sometimes disposed to think with the severer casuists of most nations, that
                        marriage is rather permitted than approved, and that none, but by the
                        instigation of a passion too much indulged, entangle themselves with
                        indissoluble compacts."
                    Readers who think that this sort of conversation is natural and beautiful
                        ought to be fond of "Rasselas," but those who do not will inevitably  feel that it was too bad that the author of
                        the great Dictionary had so intimate an acquaintance with so many words.
                
                
                
                    CANDIDE
                    FRANCOIS VOLTAIRE
                    IN the same year that "Rasselas" appeared (1759), Voltaire published his
                        "Candide." While the coarseness and irreverent merriment of the French
                        philosopher are quite unlike the ponderous Sunday-school didacticism of Dr.
                        Johnson, still there are points of remarkable resemblance in these two
                        works, written as they were by the two literary autocrats of that
                        generation. The Happy Valley of Abyssinia finds its counterpart in E1
                        Dorado, and the object of each book was to illustrate the same truths
                        — the uncertainties and vicissitudes of life and the vanity of
                        human wishes, although the moral drawn from these truths is very different
                        in the two cases.
                    Saintsbury considers "Candide" "from a literary point of view unsurpassable,"
                        while some of Voltaire's critics and commentators seem to regard it as
                        scarcely worthy of notice. The truth lies somewhere between these estimates.
                        "Candide" can hardly be classed as a novel, for it is in no sense a just
                        portraiture of life or of human nature. It is essentially a burlesque
                        written in ridicule of philosophic optimism, and of the orthodox contention
                        that all which happens is the result of a wise and beneficent design. It is
                        a work thoroughly characteristic of Voltaire, and  sparkles everywhere with his wit and laughing mockery.
                    Candide, the hero, is brought up in the castle of the Baron of
                        Thunder-Ten-Tronckh, where Master Pangloss, the instructor who teaches
                        meta-physico-theologo-cosmolo-ingology, is the oracle of the family. "It is
                        demonstrable," says this great philosopher, "that things cannot be otherwise
                        than they are; for as all things have been created for some end, they must
                        necessarily be created for the best end. Observe, for instance, the nose is
                        formed for spectacles; therefore we wear spectacles. The legs are visibly
                        designed for stockings; accordingly we wear stockings," etc. The book is a
                        commentary on this text. Candide is kicked out of the castle for falling in
                        love with the baron's daughter. After sad wanderings, he is impressed by the
                        Bulgarians, flogged nearly to death, takes part in the war with the Abares,
                        in which some thirty thousand souls are massacred, escapes to Holland, meets
                        the sage Pangloss, who is dying of a loathsome disease and who tells him
                        that the castle has been destroyed and its inmates put to death. But
                        Pangloss recovers and they start for Portugal, encountering a tempest, a
                        shipwreck, the earthquake of Lisbon (where 30,000 people were destroyed,)
                        and finally the Inquisition and an auto-da-fé, where
                        Candide receives a hundred lashes and Pangloss is hanged. Here Candide finds
                        that his inamorata Cunegund is alive, having escaped the slaughter  at Thunder-Ten-Tronckh, though she has
                        encountered calamities equal to his own, and though at that time the Grand
                        Inquisitor and one Issachar, a Jew, are holding her as their prisoner and
                        slave. Candide slays them one after the other, and escapes with his Cunegund
                        to Cadiz, whence they set sail for Buenos Aires. But here things are as bad
                        as in Europe. Cunegund is again torn from her lover, who, with his servant,
                        Cacambo, wanders through Paraguay; fights with her brother the baron, who
                        has turned Jesuit and become one of the rulers of that country; escapes
                        again, and discovers the hitherto inaccessible and unknown country of E1
                        Dorado in the heart of the mountains, where the clay is yellow gold, the
                        pebbles are precious stones, where there are no priests, nor monks, nor
                        courts, nor prisons, and where the people lead lives of innocence and ideal
                        happiness. Upon his departure he takes with him a flock of sheep laden with
                        treasure, but as soon as he reaches the haunts of men the wickedness of the
                        world begins again. His treasure is stolen and he returns to Europe, meeting
                        with marvellous adventures in France, in England, in Venice, and finally in
                        Turkey, where he again encounters his Cunegund, ransoms her from slavery,
                        and weds her, after she has become a hideous and ill-favored scold. The sage
                        Pangloss, although he has been hanged, dissected, enslaved and flogged,
                        turns up again, still maintaining that everything goes on as well as
                        possible, because as a philosopher it would be unbecoming in him to retract!
                             At every turn of the kaleidoscope some new
                        scene of fraud, lust, rapine, slaughter, sacrilege, or inevitable calamity,
                        comes into view, generally linked with some ridiculous accessory such as
                        only the mind of Voltaire could conceive, and yet with each grotesque
                        apparition there comes also a sort of conviction that the author has not
                        greatly overdrawn the picture, but has merely grouped together in startling
                        juxtaposition the things which actually happen in the world.
                    At last Candide settles in a small farm in the Propontis, and from a
                        neighbor, an old man, quite ignorant of philosophy and public affairs, he
                        learns the real secret of happiness,— to cultivate his little patch
                        of land, and by labor to keep off the three great evils, idleness, vice, and
                        want. The moral is thus expressed in the concluding sentences:
                    "'There is a concatenation of all events in the best of possible worlds; for,
                        in short, had you not been kicked out of a fine castle for the love of Miss
                        Cunegund, had you not been put into the Inquisition, had you not traveled
                        over America on foot, had you not run the baron through the body, and had
                        you not lost all your sheep which you brought from the good country of E1
                        Dorado, you would not have been here to eat preserved citrons and pistachio
                        nuts.' 'Excellently observed,' answered Candide, 'but let us take care of
                        our garden.'"
                    While the story as a whole is a wild phantasmagoria, calling to mind the
                        works of Rabelais by its grossness and inextricable confusion, it contains
                             also, like "Gargantua," passages of
                        exquisite irony and masterly satire. For instance, the Venetian senator
                        Pococurante, who by despising and condemning the great works of art and
                        literature proved his superiority to all and passed for a prodigious genius,
                        is vividly drawn, and it makes us wonder whether Voltaire's own great
                        reputation had not a source which was essentially the same as that of his
                        Pococurante.
                
                
                
                    TRISTRAM SHANDY
                    LAURENCE STERNE
                    I WAS for some time in doubt whether "Tristram Shandy" ought to be in my list
                        of masterpieces. In one sense it is hardly a work of fiction at all, for a
                        few rather trifling incidents are made the basis of such endless digressions
                        and ruminations that it is in fact not so much a story as a medley of
                        satire, philosophy, and humor. But the ear-marks of Cervantes and Rabelais
                        appear in it very plainly, and perhaps it is as much entitled to a place
                        here as the burlesques of the celebrated Frenchman.
                    I began "Tristram Shandy" several times, and read the greater part of it on
                        disconnected occasions; yet the poor hero had such a hard time, through so
                        many hundreds of pages, in getting into the world at all, that I always gave
                        up without reading the book to the end. And, to say the truth, nobody ought
                        to read it consecutively. A part of the humor consists in the endless
                        prolixity with which trifling events are narrated, and a joke thus
                        lengthened out into the enormous dimensions of several volumes becomes too
                        huge to handle all at once. Another part of the humor is displayed in the
                        jumble with which the events and observations upon them are thrown together.
                        The preface, for instance (and a very amusing 
                        preface it is), is pitched into the middle of the book. Whole chapters are
                        omitted and their places supplied by stars, and the subsequent chapters
                        (which tell the whole story) are given to explaining why these omissions
                        were made, namely, that the parts left out were too fine for the rest of the
                        story. The author appropriately asks us, after several volumes of this
                        confusion, how our heads feel!
                    The style, which is generally conversational and highly idiomatic, is
                        sometimes purposely involved, and gives us a picturesque, vague impression,
                        which is often vivid, though upon analysis it represents nothing in
                        particular. Evidently Carlyle, who was a great admirer of Sterne, imitated
                        his manner in places, though he lacked much of the wit and lightness of
                        fancy of the author of "Tristram Shandy." There are indeed passages in which
                        the style of the two authors is almost indistinguishable.
                    Naturally, in such a book a good part of the fun has to be dug out with
                        considerable labor; and this is not always the way in which humor is most
                        attractive. To the reader who is anxious for a denouement,
                        "Tristram Shandy" is a most exasperating work, for there is no denouement at all. You never get anywhere, and the book ends, like
                        the Sentimental Journey, right at the midst of perhaps the most interesting
                        part of it.
                    It improves a good deal, however, upon a second reading, when you no longer
                        care how anything is going to turn out, and when the choice  morsels are more easily extracted. It contains
                        a great many observations which go well in a commonplace book, containing as
                        they do a humorous epitome of matters of universal knowledge. Sterne has the
                        Shakespearean quality of filching from others and then transforming his
                        plunder into gold by a striking originality of his own. The actual facts
                        described are very few. Tristram's birth, with all its accessories, his
                        broken nose, his christening, his father's odd philosophy and scheme of
                        education, so elaborate that the boy's actual training had to be abandoned
                        while the father was writing his great Tristrapaedia,— these
                        things, together with the history of Uncle Toby, wounded in the groin at the
                        siege of Namur, and of his faithful- servant Corporal Trim, and finally the
                        episode of the Widow Wadman, who laid siege to Uncle Toby's heart, an
                        episode broken off in the middle at the end of the book, are pretty much
                        all. But the descriptions of character are admirable. The dear,
                        simple-minded, modest Uncle Toby, with his hobby, to wit: his fortifications
                        and his military science,— Uncle Toby, who continually interrupts
                        the emanations of Shandean philosophy by inapposite remarks, will always be
                        a type in literature.
                    The coarseness of "Tristram Shandy" excludes the book from indiscriminate
                        reading at the present time, but its coarseness, although in places very
                        great, is, on the whole, of a rather innocent character, and the work will
                        keep its place as a classic among the lovers of genuine humor.
                    
                    It contains occasional passages of singular beauty. Witness the
                        following.
                    "Time wastes too fast; every letter I trace tells me with what rapidity life
                        follows my pen; the days and hours of it more precious, my dear Jenny, than
                        the rubies about thy neck, are flying over our heads like light clouds of a
                        windy day, never to return more; everything presses on,— whilst
                        thou art twisting that lock, see! it grows gray; and every time I kiss thy
                        hand to bid adieu, and every absence which follows it, are preludes to that
                        eternal separation which we are shortly to make."
                
                
                
                    THE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD
                    OLIVER GOLDSMITH
                    I WAS forcibly reminded of the fact that our estimate of a work of literature
                        depends largely upon our mood and upon surrounding circumstances after my
                        last reading of "The Vicar of Wakefield." Upon a former reading I had been
                        filled with great admiration for Goldsmith's novel. The plot seemed
                        admirably constructed, the characters well drawn, and the literary charm of
                        the book inexpressibly attractive. On the subsequent perusal the work did
                        not come up to the standard I had imagined. Both the style and the plot
                        appeared somewhat artificial, and the combination of incidents improbable.
                        The literary charm was there, but even that was not so great as I had
                        supposed. I can not altogether account for this change of view. Perhaps it
                        is due to the fact that my earlier reading was just after my perusal of "Tom
                        Jones," and followed a certain disappointment and disgust at Fielding's
                        work, whereas the final reading followed the perusal of Manzoni's
                        masterpiece, "The Betrothed," by the side of which even "The Vicar of
                        Wakefield" shines with a lustre that is somewhat dim. It is perhaps also due
                        to the fact that the sudden alternations of fortune described in Goldsmith's
                        novel are more startling, and therefore more attractive on a fresh  impression than they are when they are
                        anticipated.
                    "The Vicar of Wakefield" begins with a delightful description of the family
                        of the good man who tells the story,— of his wife, "chosen for the
                        qualities that would wear well," but whose conduct, I thought, did not
                        altogether justify such a selection; of his two daughters, Olivia and
                        Sophia, with romantic names in which the father had no choice; and of his
                        younger sons. Among these, he says, a family likeness prevailed, and
                        "properly speaking, they had but one character, that of being all equally
                        generous, credulous, simple, and inoffensive." He describes the part he took
                        in the Whistonian controversy, maintaining that it was unlawful for a priest
                        of the church of England, after the death of his first wife, to take
                        another,— a controversy which led to a difference with a
                        neighboring clergyman, Mr. Wilmot, the father of Arabella, to whom the
                        vicar's son George was betrothed, and ended in the breaking off of the
                        engagement, after it was also found that the vicar's fortune had been lost.
                        Then follows a description of the removal of the family to a new parish; of
                        the departure of George to seek his fortune; of the straightened
                        circumstances and simple life of the others; of the love of finery displayed
                        by the wife and daughters; of their efforts at gentility and their attempts
                        to attract Squire Thornhill, their dissolute landlord, and to secure him as
                        a husband for Olivia. The squire brings from London two women of abandoned
                             character, whom he introduces as ladies of
                        high rank, and who seek to induce the daughters of the honest clergyman to
                        return with them to the town.
                    Two attractive episodes are here introduced. In order to defray the expenses
                        necessary to keep up appearances and to send the girls to London, the boy
                        Moses is sent to a fair to sell the colt, and an amusing account is given of
                        his return with a gross of worthless green spectacles, which a sharper had
                        palmed off upon him. Then the vicar himself goes to sell the other horse,
                        and the same man, one Ephraim Jenkinson, who appeared to be a pious and
                        venerable gentleman, and displayed great learning about Sanchoniathon,
                        Manetho, Berosus, Ocellus Lucanus, and the cosmogony of the world, gives him
                        a worthless draft upon one of his neighbors in payment. These two episodes
                        call to mind some of the adventures of Gil Blas.
                    Upon his return home the vicar finds that the two great ladies from London
                        have departed, without his daughters, being dissuaded from taking them by a
                        letter of one Mr. Burchell, a friend of the family, a gentleman in reduced
                        circumstances, as was supposed, whose attentions to Sophia have caused her
                        father much anxiety. A letter of Burchell is discovered, containing some
                        dark insinuations, which are erroneously thought to apply, not to the two
                        women, but to the vicar's own family, and great is the indignation at
                        Burchell for his scandalous interference. Squire Thornhill continues his
                        attentions to the vicar's eldest daughter, and is included with the family
                             in a huge picture, which is inadvertently
                        made so large that it will not go into any of the rooms of the vicar's
                        cottage, but has to stand against the kitchen wall. Instead of pressing his
                        suit openly, however, the squire elopes with Olivia, upon whom he imposes a
                        fictitious marriage, and then, after a time, abandons her. The poor
                        clergyman starts upon a vain pursuit of his daughter, believing that
                        Burchell is responsible for her abduction. In his wanderings he comes upon
                        his son George, who is attached to a company of strolling players, and the
                        young man gives him an account of his adventures; of his travels in Holland,
                        whither he has gone to teach the Dutch English, without reflecting that for
                        this purpose it was necessary that he should first learn Dutch; of his
                        induction into the art of a connoisseur of pictures at Paris, where he
                        learns that the whole secret of it consists in a strict adherence to two
                        rules,—"the one, always to observe the picture might have been
                        better if the painter had taken more pains; and the other, to praise the
                        works of Pietro Perugino." The squire arrives during the vicar's interview
                        with his son, and agrees to purchase for George a commission in a West India
                        regiment, taking from the father a bond for a hundred pounds, the purchase
                        money.
                    But shortly afterwards the vicar comes upon his daughter Olivia, who is in
                        great distress, and he learns from her that it is the squire, and not
                        Burchell, who has betrayed her. When the good man returns home he finds his
                        dwelling in flames,  and rescues his two little
                        boys, but is seriously burned in the conflagration, and shortly afterwards
                        he has an altercation with the squire, who thereupon arrests him for
                        non-payment of the hundred pounds, and throws him into jail. One of his
                        fellow-prisoners begins to talk about cosmogony, Sanchoniathon, etc., and he
                        recognizes the rogue Jenkinson, who now, however, becomes his friend. A
                        simple and pathetic account is given of the scenes in the prison; of his
                        exhortations to his fellow-prisoners to reform their evil courses; of their
                        laughter, the pranks they play on him, and the ultimate respect and love
                        which he awakens. So long as his daughter lives, the vicar will not seek to
                        secure his release from prison by making his submission to the squire; but
                        he soon learns from Jenkinson that the poor girl is dead. His second
                        daughter, Sophia, is suddenly abducted, and George unexepectedly comes into
                        the prison in fetters, prosecuted by the squire for sending a challenge and
                        for injuring one of his servants. At this point the climax of human
                        wretchedness would seem to be reached. But here everything changes.
                        Burchell, who has just rescued Sophia and brought her back in safety, now
                        comes upon the scene and discloses himself as the uncle of Squire Thornhill
                        and the real owner of the estate which the young squire has been enjoying.
                        Thornhill arrives, and his villainies are one after another unmasked. Miss
                        Wilmot, whom he is about to marry, learns of his infidelities, renounces
                        him, and again accepts her former  suitor,
                        George. The squire impudently insists on keeping her fortune, according to
                        the marriage contract, but Jenkinson now reveals the fact that Thornhill is
                        already wedded to Olivia, since the priest who married them was a true
                        priest, and it was he and not the girl who had been imposed upon. Olivia
                        herself now appears; she is not dead, Jenkinson having declared that she was
                        for the purpose of inducing the good vicar to make his submission to the
                        squire and get out of prison. Burchell, now Sir William Thornhill, seeks the
                        hand of Sophia, the vicar's property is restored to him, and the story
                        concludes with two weddings and universal happiness. The conclusion is more
                        satisfactory than that of the book of Job, to which the story bears some
                        slight resemblance, for in Goldsmith's novel even the dead are restored to
                        life.
                    It is quite evident, from the foregoing outline of the plot, that there is
                        decidedly too much machinery in it to be altogether natural; and this
                        artificiality, which seems characteristic rather of the age than of the
                        author, is also found in the diction of the book, in which Johnsonian
                        antitheses sometimes appear, although these were used by Goldsmith with more
                        restraint and with better taste than by any other writer of the period. For
                        instance, in the author's Advertisement, speaking of the vicar, it is
                        said:
                    "He is drawn as ready to teach, and ready to obey; as simple in affluence,
                        and majestic in adversity."
                    
                    Describing the early prosperous days of the family, the vicar says:
                    "We had no revolutions to fear, nor fatigues to undergo; all our adventures
                        were by the fire-side, and all our migrations from the blue bed to the
                        brown."
                    Again:
                    " My children, the offspring of temperance, as they were educated without
                        softness, so they were at once well-formed and healthy; my sons hardy and
                        active, my daughters beautiful and blooming. . . . The one entertained me
                        with her vivacity when I was gay, the other with her sense when I was
                        serious," etc., etc.
                    Of course the language of the book is elegant and beautiful,—
                        nothing that Goldsmith ever wrote was otherwise; but I think that our
                        present era is to be congratulated upon the fact that however great its
                        defects of style in other particulars such formalism is now mostly
                        obsolete.
                    Two of the characters in the book are extremely well drawn,— the
                        good vicar himself, with his simplicity, kindness, and religious reverence;
                        his patience, however, on two or three occasions interrupted by most natural
                        outbreaks of indignation; and his wife, motherly and foolish, with her
                        shallow schemes for the advancement of her daughters.
                    The three poems introduced into the story,— "The Hermit," the "Elegy
                        on a Mad Dog," and last and most beautiful of all, the verses beginning
                        —  " When lovely woman stoops to
                        folly, And finds, too late, that men betray," will long be known and admired
                        in English literature. They are models of purity and simplicity, though
                        Goldsmith, as well as Wordsworth, sometimes comes dangerously near the line
                        which separates that which is delicately beautiful from that which is
                        sentimental and commonplace.
                
                
                
                    THE SORROWS OF YOUNG WERTHER
                    JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE
                    MANY of the lovers of Goethe will no doubt say that his longer works,
                        "Wilhelm Meister" or "Elective Affinities," are his most important
                        productions in the field of fiction; but it always seemed to me that, as a
                        portrait of actual life, his earliest and simplest story is entitled to the
                        highest rank. The first part of "Werther" is one of the most charming bits
                        of idyllic literature extant. The character of the hero appears very clearly
                        and naturally from his letters to his friend. He has a sensitive,
                        impressionable, sympathetic, unaffected, lovable, and simple nature, subject
                        to sudden transitions from joy to wretchedness. He loves children; he is
                        interested in the lowly. To his eyes, at this time, the world and the people
                        in it are all good. His descriptions of natural scenery are filled with a
                        lively and poetic charm, and so, too, are his accounts of those he meets.
                        Most attractive of all is his portrait of Charlotte, when he first sees her,
                        cutting bread for her little brothers and sisters, then at the dance, and
                        afterwards, on almost every page in which her name appears. The incidents of
                        this story, except the concluding portion of it, are taken largely from the
                        author's own experience, and Goethe, inconstant as he was in his affections,
                             knew not only how to love passionately,
                        but how to describe the object of his passion as she appeared to him; and he
                        has given us here a girl so attractive that we become enamored of the
                        portrait. Her outbursts of merriment, her constant cheerfulness, her deep,
                        sympathetic nature, the delicate home touches in her conduct of the
                        household, all go to make up a character the charm of which is irresistible.
                        But she is engaged to be married. Werther knows this from the time he has
                        first seen her; yet, like a moth, he flits around the candle; and when
                        Albert, her betrothed, arrives,—a character whose cool temper and
                        sound understanding are a sharp antithesis to his own passionate and
                        volatile nature,—life in his eyes suddenly changes. We see this
                        even in the changing views with which he regards Nature. The universe,
                        instead of being the source of universal joy, has grown to be a fearful
                        monster, forever devouring its own offspring. His buoyant spirits become
                        depressed; he broods over the one thought of his love for Charlotte, until
                        he resolves to flee. He takes service under an ambassador, whom he describes
                        as "the most punctilious blockhead under heaven." He writes with utter
                        contempt of the hollow society by which he is surrounded, with its
                        meaningless gradations; and when at last he inadvertently remains at a
                        reception at which his rank does not entitle him to be present, and is asked
                        to leave, whereupon scandal arises, he resigns his place in disgust.
                    In the meantime, Albert and Charlotte have 
                        become married, but the one great passion of Werther's life brings him back
                        to her. He recognizes his folly, but he can not resist it. His thoughts
                        circle around her alone, and his imaginations become morbid and feverish.
                        "If Albert should die!" "How much better fitted am I to be her husband!" Her
                        pity for him, and the tenderness with which she treats his hopeless passion,
                        inflame him all the more.
                    Werther's letters to his friend are now interrupted, and the editor fills in
                        the gaps with a narrative and observations of his own. Werther becomes
                        gloomy, morose, unbalanced, and finally resolves upon suicide. Charlotte
                        asks him not to visit her, but in spite of this he goes, and reads to her
                        some melancholy passages from Ossian, not very apposite in the facts they
                        describe, but quite in tune with his feelings in their mournful and
                        melancholy character. When he sees her sympathy with his affliction, a
                        passionate outbreak ensues, and she parts from him, declaring that she can
                        never see him again. He wanders distraught at night over the crags, and,
                        returning home, makes his preparations for death. He sends to Albert, asking
                        to borrow his pistols for a journey. Albert directs Charlotte to give them
                        to the messenger, which she does. A long letter from Werther to Charlotte
                        and a simple description of the final catastrophe end the narrative.
                    There is a great inconsistency between Werther's character as it appears in
                        the last part of the book and that shown by his earlier letters,  an inconsistency which it seems to me is not
                        wholly due to the transformation in his feelings caused by his hopeless
                        love. The last letter which Werther writes to Charlotte is of a most
                        compromising character, telling her that he knows she loves him, and that
                        she is to be his in that curious future world which he pictures to himself,
                        where it would seem that passion rather than virtue is to be rewarded. He
                        insists on describing the harrowing details of his contemplated suicide,
                        reminding her that it is from her hand that he has received the pistol, and
                        throwing upon her the responsibility, all this accompanied by the most
                        tender endearments. Is this love? Is it even a tolerable form of insanity?
                        It may be said that no course of action is unreasonable for a madman, yet to
                        me the final pages seem inartistic. In this part of the book the author
                        evidently had to rely upon his unaided imagination rather than upon the
                        memory of his own experience, and Werther's frame of mind after he had
                        resolved upon suicide is one which I think Goethe had felt very imperfectly
                        in his own consciousness.
                    But whatever the incongruities of the story so far as the hero is concerned,
                        it must be said that fiction has rarely, if ever, drawn a character more
                        womanly, in the best sense of the word, than Charlotte. She is one of the
                        most attractive types in literature.
                
                
                
                    PAUL AND VIRGINIA
                    BERNARDIN DE ST. PIERRE
                    WERE it not for the immense reputation of "Paul and Virginia," a reputation
                        which has lasted for more than a century, that book should find no place in
                        a list of the great works of fiction.
                    Saint Pierre considered his work a picture of nature, a sort of prose
                        pastoral, modelled after Theocritus; but to many it will seem rather the
                        picture of a counterfeit or fiat nature, which was greatly in vogue at the
                        time in an extremely artificial society and among those who had little
                        knowledge of the genuine article. I do not mean by this to criticise the
                        author's description of natural scenery or natural phenomena. His picture of
                        the Isle-de-France, and of the surroundings of the little cabins in which
                        the events of the story occur, is beautiful and lifelike; his account of the
                        hurricane in which Virginia perishes is realistic, and impressive; but his
                        portrait of what human life would be in a condition of Arcadian simplicity
                        is far from convincing. The author tells us in his preface that he intends
                        to show that our happiness consists in living according to nature and
                        virtue. When a definite thesis is thus proposed at the outset, the
                        truthfulness of the portrait may easily be overlooked  and the dramatis personae may even become
                        impossibilities.
                    Here are two amiable children who grow up together in two neighboring cabins
                        "according to nature,"— that is, they can not read and
                        write,— and yet they devote themselves to amateur theatricals and
                        to landscape gardening. In decorating the tropical surroundings of their
                        humble homes they make these almost as artificial as the park of Versailles.
                        The names which they give to the choice spots are stilted and unnatural. A
                        certain rock is called "The Discovery of Friendship." A circle of orange
                        trees and bananas around a small grass-plat, where Paul and Virginia go and
                        dance, is called "Concord." Another tree where their respective mothers meet
                        to tell their griefs is christened "Tears Wiped Away." A neighboring hermit
                        (the man who afterwards tells the story) scatters appropriate Latin verses
                        in divers other localities.
                    Nothing that is planted ever seems to fail. The flowers are abundant, but
                        somehow they seem like manufactured flowers. Even their perfume suggests
                        rather the pharmacy than the field, and we see nothing of any thorns.
                    A few of the scenes between Paul and Virginia are natural and beautiful.
                        Perhaps the best part of the story is the description of the shy maidenly
                        reserve which takes the place of childish affection when the girl first
                        becomes a woman. But the bulk of the book is filled with a curious mixture
                        of sickly sentimentality, long Sunday-school homilies,  and a very commonplace philosophy. The climax is reached after
                        Virginia, who has been sent to France to be educated by her aunt, returns to
                        the island and perishes with the ship which is wrecked by a hurricane upon
                        the shore. This occurs under the eyes of her lover, who makes heroic but
                        ineffectual efforts to rescue her. According to the curiously devised plot
                        of the author, she could escape by swimming from the sinking ship if she
                        would accept the proffered aid of a sailor and consent to divest herself of
                        her clothing, but her modesty is greater than her love of life. She turns
                        away, lifts her eyes to heaven, and with appropriate gestures goes down with
                        the ship. This may be impressive to the Gallic mind, but to many a
                        hard-headed Anglo-Saxon it will look like rubbish. The book ends with a
                        description of the grief of her lover, in spite of enormous doses of
                        consolation ineffectually administered to him by a friend, and finally with
                        the death of pretty much everybody concerned, all from broken hearts, and in
                        a very short space of time. Thus is demonstrated the happiness which is sure
                        to reward those who keep close to nature.
                    We are told that the events recorded actually occurred. It may be that the
                        skeleton of the story is founded upon fact, but if so, I feel sure that the
                        flesh and blood with which the imagination of the author has clothed it is
                        quite different from that which it actually possessed.
                
                
                
                    ATALA
                    FRANCOIS CHATEAUBRIAND
                    I HEAR that not long ago, as the result of an extensive vote taken among the
                        subscribers of a leading French periodical, it was found that Chateaubriand
                        was the most popular of all French writers of fiction of the present
                        century. Certainly this is a surprising result when such names as Balzac,
                        Hugo, and Daudet are considered as competitors, and one's first impression
                        is that those who gave their suffrages in favor of Chateaubriand must have
                        been sentimental rather than judicious readers.
                    And yet a careful perusal of "Atala," the short romance by which
                        Chateaubriand won his literary spurs, will perhaps give the author a higher
                        rank in fiction than is generally accorded to him by our colder and less
                        impressionable race. The plot is simplicity itself. Atala is an Indian
                        maiden, although a Christian, and is supposed to be the daughter of Simaghan
                        the chief. Her real father, however, is Lopez, a Spaniard. Her mother before
                        her death required from her a vow of perpetual celibacy. Chactas, a young
                        brave of the tribe of the Natchez, who has lived among the Spaniards at St.
                        Augustine, is captured by Simaghan and is to be burned alive. Atala releases
                        him from his bonds, they flee together, and 
                        wander long through the forest. Their love is so great that Atala, fearing
                        she would break her vow, takes poison and dies under the care of the good
                        Father Aubry, a missionary, who administers the last consolations of
                        religion.
                    This story has been called an epic in prose, but its predominant feature is
                        hardly the heroic. It is rather a pastoral, if that word can be applied to a
                        description of primitive life where there are neither flocks nor shepherds.
                        "Atala" follows somewhat the same lines as "Paul and Virginia," and although
                        it is supposed to contain incongruities in attributing the qualities of
                        civilization to savages, yet perhaps Chateaubriand, who had had considerable
                        personal experience with American Indians, may not have been so wide of the
                        mark as we think. Moreover, Atala was part Spaniard; Chactas had been
                        brought up among the whites, and the counterpart of the old priest actually
                        existed in Jogues the Jesuit father. And if it were not so, why may not the
                        poet create such children of his fancy as he will, and give them what garb
                        and conversation and surroundings he may please, so long as they are really
                        human and beautiful? Atala is certainly an interesting and natural
                        character, the consolations of the priest are filled with tender pathos, the
                        style of the book is simple yet highly poetical, and there are descriptions
                        of nature — of the forest, the mountains, the storm — of
                        great beauty and vividness, —pictures that sometimes make us wish
                        to betake ourselves to the wilderness.
                    
                    The moralizing of Chateaubriand is by no means so tedious as that of St.
                        Pierre, and there is nothing in Atala so essentially devoid of common sense
                        as the conduct of the artificial creatures who have been "living according
                        to Nature," in the Ile de France.
                    Let us say, then, that Chateaubriand, if not preëminent, is entitled to an
                        honorable rank among the masters of fiction.
                
                
                
                    PRIDE AND PREJUDICE
                    JANE AUSTEN
                    THE narrow horizon of Jane Austen's life was perhaps one of the reasons why
                        her perception of human nature was so keen and accurate in the matters which
                        fell under her observation. Her novels contain no extraordinary types nor
                        incidents, but she makes the most of the average and the commonplace, which
                        become more than usually interesting under her treatment. He who reads
                        "Pride and Prejudice" will get a faithful picture, not only of English
                        country life, but of a great deal that belongs to life everywhere. None of
                        the characters are exaggerated; they are entirely human and natural. The
                        conversation is not too brilliant to be lifelike. When bright things are
                        said they are introduced in a spontaneous and almost inevitable manner. All
                        through the book we recognize in the author a quiet yet acute observer of
                        actual occurrences, who has culled largely from her own recollection many of
                        the most attractive incidents and has grouped them together with simple yet
                        effective art. The satire is so unobtrusive that sometimes it appears
                        unconscious.
                    The Bennet household is well described. "Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of
                        quick parts, sarcastic humor, reserve, and caprice, that the experience of
                        three and twenty years had been insufficient 
                        to make his wife understand his character. Her mind was less difficult to
                        develop. She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and
                        uncertain temper. When she was discontented she fancied herself nervous. The
                        business of her life was to get her daughters married; its solace was
                        visiting and news."
                    And again: "Her husband was very little otherwise indebted to her than as her
                        ignorance and folly contributed to his amusement. This is not the sort of
                        happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his wife, but where
                        other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true philosopher will derive
                        benefit from such as are given."
                    There are five daughters in the family, whose characters are excellently set
                        off by comparison with one another,— Jane, the eldest, beautiful,
                        gracious, kindly, sweet-tempered, always believing the best of everybody;
                        (Elizabeth, high-spirited, brilliant, and decidedly the most attractive,
                        although by no means so charitable as her sister in her judgment of others.)
                        The three other sisters, Mary, Kitty, and Lydia, are as empty-headed as
                        their mother. Lydia, the youngest, in particular, is a wild, giddy girl,
                        continually running after the officers with their fine coats.
                    The book deals with a society where woman's sole resource is matrimony, and
                        through the entire story there runs a great deal of talk of catching a
                        husband, and of schemes for this purpose. The silly Mrs. Bennet flings her
                        daughters, in the most transparent way, first at one man and then another,
                             much to the mortification of Jane and
                        Elizabeth.
                    It appears that Mr. Bingley, a young, unmarried, and wealthy gentleman, has
                        recently taken the estate of Netherfield, and moves into the neighborhood,
                        bringing with him his two sisters, women of selfish and supercilious
                        character. His friend Darcy, the proprietor of the large estate of Pemberly,
                        in Derbyshire, also accompanies him. The book opens with the following
                        sentence:
                    "It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a
                        good fortune must be in want of a wife. However little known the feelings or
                        views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighborhood, this truth
                        is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is
                        considered as the rightful property of some one or other of their
                        daughters."
                    The partiality of Bingley for Jane is soon apparent, but the young man is
                        hurried away from Netherfield by his sisters and his friend Darcy, who
                        desires to preserve him from an undesirable connection. By mutual
                        misunderstandings Jane and he are kept apart until near the close of the
                        book, and the main interest in the story centers around Darcy and Elizabeth.
                        Darcy's manner is proud, cold, and disagreeable, and Elizabeth resents his
                        conduct in a lively and spirited fashion, which renders her all the more
                        attractive in his eyes. She hears, however, from Wickham, a young officer in
                        the militia, of his evil conduct in disregarding his father's wishes and
                        depriving this companion of his boyhood of a living, which he  had been recommended by his father's will to
                        bestow upon Wickham.
                    Mr. Collins, a young clergyman who has inherited by entail the reversion of
                        Longbourn, the Bennet property, visits the Bennet household, resolving to
                        marry one of the daughters — any one of them will do; and on
                        learning that Jane is likely to be disposed of, he at once transfers his
                        suit to Elizabeth. He is a formal, pompous, ridiculous toady, filled with
                        great awe of his patroness, Lady Catherine De Bourgh. The manner in which he
                        pays his addresses to Elizabeth is related with delightful
                        particularity:
                    "'Almost as soon as I entered the house,' [he says], 'I singled you out as
                        the companion of my future life. But, before I am run away with by my
                        feelings on this subject, perhaps it will be advisable for me to state my
                        reasons for marrying — and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire
                        with the design of selecting a wife, as I certainly did.'
                    "The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away with
                        by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing, that she could not use the
                        short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him further, and he
                        continued:
                    "'My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for every
                        clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example of
                        matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced it will add very
                        greatly to my happiness; and thirdly — which, perhaps, I ought to
                        have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and recommendation
                        of the very noble lady whom I have the honor of calling patroness. Twice has
                        she  condescended to give me her opinion
                        (unasked, too!) on this subject; and it was but the very Saturday night
                        before I left Hunsford — between our pools at quadrille, while Mrs.
                        Jenkinson was arranging Miss De Bourgh's footstool — that she said,
                        "Mr. Collins, you must marry. A clergyman like you must marry. Choose
                        properly, choose a gentlewoman, for my sake; and for your
                            own, let her be an active, useful sort of person, not
                        brought up high, but able to make a small income go a good way. This is my
                        advice. Find such a woman as soon as you can, bring her to Hunsford, and I
                        will visit her." Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do
                        not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the
                        least of the advantages in my power to offer. You will find her manners
                        beyond anything I can describe; and your wit and vivacity I think must be
                        acceptable to her, especially when tempered with the silence and respect
                        which her rank will inevitably excite. Thus much for my general intention in
                        favor of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views were directed to
                        Longbourn instead of my own neighborhood, where, I assure you, there are
                        many amiable young women. But, the fact is, that being as I am to inherit
                        this estate after the death of your honored father, (who, however, may live
                        many years longer), I could not satisfy myself without resolving to choose a
                        wife from among his daughters, that the loss to them might be as little as
                        possible, when the melancholy event takes place — which, however,
                        as I have already said, may not be for several years. This has been my
                        motive, my fair cousin, and I flatter myself it will not sink me in your
                        esteem. And now, nothing remains for me but to assure you, in the most
                        animated language, of the violence of my affection. To fortune I am
                        perfectly indifferent, and shall make no demand of that nature on  your father, since I am well aware that it
                        could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds in the four per
                        cents., which will not be yours till after your mother's decease, is all
                        that you may ever be entitled to. On that head, therefore, I shall be
                        uniformly silent; and you may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach
                        shall ever pass my lips when we are married.'
                    "It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
                    "'You are too hasty, sir,' she cried. 'You forget that I have made no answer.
                        Let me do it without further loss of time. Accept my thanks for the
                        compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible of the honor of your
                        proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than decline
                        them.'
                    "'I am not now to learn,' replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the
                        hand, 'that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the man
                        whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their favor;
                        and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second or even a third time. I
                        am, therefore, by no means discouraged by what you have just said, and shall
                        hope to lead you to the altar ere long.'
                    "'Upon my word, sir,' cried Elizabeth, 'your hope is rather an extraordinary
                        one, after my declaration. I do assure you that I am not one of those young
                        ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their
                        happiness on the chance of being asked a second time. I am perfectly serious
                        in my refusal. You could not make me happy, and I am
                        convinced that I am the last woman in the world who would make you so. Nay, were your friend Lady Catherine to know me, I am
                        persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the
                        situation.'
                    "'You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear  cousin, that your refusal of my addresses is merely a thing of
                        course. My reasons for believing it are briefly these: — It does
                        not appear to me that my hand is unworthy your acceptance, or that the
                        establishment I can offer would be any other than highly desirable. My
                        situation in life, my connections with the family of De Bourgh, and my
                        relationship to your own, are circumstances highly in my favor; and you
                        should take it into further consideration that, in spite of your manifold
                        attractions it is by no means certain that another offer of marriage may
                        ever be made you. Your portion is unhappily so small, that it will in all
                        likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications.
                        As I must therefore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of
                        me, I shall choose to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by
                        suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females.'
                    "'I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to that kind of
                        elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man. I would rather be
                        paid the compliment of being believed sincere. I thank you again and again
                        for the honor you have done me in your proposals, but to accept them is
                        absolutely impossible. My feelings in every respect forbid it. Can I speak
                        plainer? Do not consider me now as an elegant female intending to plague
                        you, but as a rational creature speaking the truth from her heart.'
                    "'I You are uniformly charming!' cried he, with an air of awkward gallantry;
                        'and I am persuaded that when sanctioned by the express authority of both
                        your excellent parents, my proposals will not fail of being acceptable.'
                    "To such perseverance in wilful self-deception, Elizabeth would make no
                        reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, that if he
                        persisted in considering  her repeated refusals
                        as flattering encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be
                        uttered in such a manner as must be decisive, and whose behavior at least
                        could not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant
                        female."
                    But after Collins is persuaded that he is rejected by Elizabeth, he at once
                        makes suit to her friend, Charlotte Lucas, and Charlotte, who has an eye to
                        the main chance, snaps up the foolish clergyman with little ceremony, and,
                        like many another woman under similar circumstances, manages him adroitly
                        and bears patiently and cheerfully her dull life with him at the
                        parsonage.
                    Elizabeth, while on a visit to her friend at this place, again sees Darcy on
                        several occasions. His manners are constrained; she dislikes him heartily;
                        and it is with the utmost surprise that she listens at last to a confession
                        of love, in which he declares that he has struggled vainly, that his
                        feelings will not be repressed, and in which he speaks most inappropriately
                        of his sense of her inferiority, of the marriage being a degradation, and of
                        the family obstacles which judgment has always opposed to his inclination.
                        She rejects him with indignation, and reproaches him for separating his
                        friend Bingley from her sister, and for his unjust treatment of Wickham. He
                        on his part is astounded at her refusal, and the next morning places in her
                        hand a letter, explaining, with great candor and rather brutal frankness,
                        his motives for his action, and justifying very fully his treatment  of Wickham, whose bad character is clearly
                        shown.
                    It is not long before Wickham elopes with the foolish Lydia, and lives with
                        her in hiding in London, but refuses to marry her. Darcy, without the
                        knowledge of any of the Bennet household, sets about to discover the
                        fugitives, and finally persuades Wickham to marry the girl, to whom he gives
                        a portion sufficient to make her an object of attraction to her unprincipled
                        lover.
                    These two characters, Darcy and Wickham, are not clearly described when they
                        are first introduced to us, and Elizabeth, the heroine, though she is
                        generally a shrewd observer, makes a serious mistake in estimating their
                        respective merits, a mistake that we would be very likely to make ourselves
                        under the same circumstances.
                    In the later chapters of the book Darcy overcomes his pride, and Elizabeth
                        her prejudice, Bingley and Jane are again brought together, and the
                        marriages of the two couples form a fitting conclusion for the novel.
                    Perhaps the character of the Lady Catherine de Bourgh is the most graphically
                        drawn of any in the book. Her rank, her wealth, and her arrogance make her
                        the general adviser of the inferior race of mortals whom she deigns to
                        notice. She criticises every household but her own, resents the expression
                        of an opinion by any one except herself, points out the mistakes of everyone
                        else at the card tables, constantly relates anecdotes of her personal
                        experience, determines what the  weather is to
                        be next day, finds fault with the employments of her neighbors and the
                        arrangement of their furniture, detects their housemaids in negligence,
                        impresses upon the young women of her acquaintance that they will never play
                        well unless they practice more, etc., etc., etc. All her hospitality is
                        attended by intolerable dullness and ill-breeding. Her interview with
                        Elizabeth, in which she insolently directs that young woman not to marry
                        Darcy, because she has selected him for her own daughter, is drawn with a
                        masterly hand, and, as might be expected, her conduct turns out to be the
                        very means of reconciliation between those she would keep apart.
                    In the following letter of condolence sent by Mr. Collins to Lydia's father,
                        after her elopement became known, the nature of the reverend clergyman
                        appears, unconsciously painted by his own hand far better than it could be
                        characterized by others:
                    "'My dear Sir:
                    "'I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation in life,
                        to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now suffering under,
                        of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from Hertfordshire. Be
                        assured, my dear sir, that Mrs. Collins and myself sincerely sympathize with
                        you, and all your respectable family, in your present distress, which must
                        be of the bitterest kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can
                        remove. No arguments shall be wanting, on my part, that can alleviate so
                        severe a misfortune; or that may comfort you under a circumstance that must
                        be of  all others most afflicting to a parent's
                        mind. The death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison to
                        this. And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to suppose,
                        as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this licentiousness of behavior in
                        your daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though, at
                        the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet, I am
                        inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally bad, or she
                        could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an age. Howsoever that
                        may be, you are grievously to be pitied, in which opinion I am not only
                        joined by Mrs. Collins, but, likewise, by Lady Catherine and her daughter,
                        to whom I have related the affair. They agree with me in apprehending that
                        this false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the
                        others, for who, as Lady Catherine herself condescendingly says, will
                        connect themselves with such a family? And this consideration leads me,
                        moreover, to reflect with augmented satisfaction on a certain event of last
                        November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved in all your
                        sorrows and disgrace. Let me advise you, then, my dear sir, to console
                        yourself as much as possible, to throw off your unworthy child from your
                        affection forever, and leave her to reap the fruits of her own heinous
                        offence.'
                    "'I am, dear sir, &c., &c.'"
                    While "Pride and Prejudice" is not a book of absorbing interest, it is a very
                        faithful portraiture of life, and a quiet and effective satire on some of
                        the commonest foibles of mankind.
                
                
                
                    UNDINE
                    DE LA MOTTE FOUQUE
                    THE fairy world holds among its enchantments no more gracious figure than
                        Undine, whose simple story is filled with unutterable pathos and
                        tenderness.
                    The Knight Huldbrand meets her in the guise of a young girl at the cottage of
                        a fisherman by whom she had been brought up as a daughter. Beautiful,
                        wayward, mischievous, she falls in love with the handsome knight and
                        testifies her fondness by mad pranks as well as by artless caresses. After
                        they are married Huldbrand learns for the first time that his bride is a
                        water-sprite, belonging to a race more beautiful than mankind, but devoid of
                        an immortal soul, which can be acquired only by marriage with some human
                        being. A great change now comes over Undine; for with her new soul there
                        comes to her all that depth of feeling and suffering which the possession of
                        the priceless gift implies. The scene in which she first reveals to her
                        husband her real nature and tremblingly awaits her destiny at his hands is
                        beautiful in the extreme. The married pair take their departure from the
                        cottage and proceed through the enchanted forest on their way to
                        Huld-brand's castle at Ringstetten. The water-sprite Kühleborn, the kinsman
                        of Undine, who besets  their pathway here and
                        elsewhere and who dissolves into a mountain torrent, is described with that
                        vagueness which is the charm of the supernatural. On the way to Ringstetten,
                        Undine, moved with pity for the proud and imperious Ber-talda, who has been
                        cast off by the duke of the country for her unworthiness, takes her home and
                        receives her as a companion and friend. Gradually the love of Huldbrand for
                        his wife wanes, and he becomes enamored of Bertalda; and while Undine's
                        kinsfolk, the water-sprites, seek to revenge the slights she is compelled to
                        suffer, yet the poor wife, with loving self-sacrifice, protects not only her
                        husband but even her rival from their power. At last, while sailing on the
                        Danube, Huldbrand loads his wife with curses and imprecations, and she is
                        compelled to leave him and join her kindred in the river below. And when,
                        after his marriage with Bertalda, she is required to come back to the castle
                        and be his executioner, she lovingly performs her terrible office with a
                        kiss.
                    There are some imperfections and inconsistencies in the story, as perhaps
                        there must be in all tales dealing with the supernatural, but the traits
                        which come to this fair creature with the soul bestowed upon her at her
                        wedding, the gentleness, the self-sacrifice and submissive love, are drawn
                        by the hand of a master and painted in colors which genius alone can impart
                        to the creations of fancy.
                
                
                
                    PETER SCHLEMIHL
                    ADELBERT CHAMISSO
                    A GERMAN critic of considerable authority speaks of "Peter Schiemihl" as "a
                        faultless work of art, and one of deep import." It is not necessary to
                        concur in this estimate nor to imagine, as some do, that the shadowless man
                        was a symbol of the author, "a wanderer without a country," in order to give
                        the book a reasonably high place in literature. No doubt there are
                        autobiographical features in the story, but Chamisso's own account of its
                        simple genesis is evidently the true one. "I had lost," he said, "upon a
                        journey, my hat, portmanteau, gloves, pocket-handkerchief, and my entire
                        travelling outfit. Fouqué asked me if I had not also lost my shadow, and we
                        pictured this misfortune to ourselves." Something out of La Fontaine
                        furnished another incident, and the book was written largely to amuse the
                        children of the author's friend Hilzig. It is a sort of fairy story dealing
                        largely with the supernatural.
                    At the garden of a rich gentleman to whom he has brought a letter of
                        introduction, Peter Schlemihl meets a quiet man dressed in gray, who, when
                        anything is desired by the guests, at once takes it out of his pocket. A
                        piece of court plaster, a telescope, a Turkish carpet, a tent, and finally a
                        horse saddled and bridled, are successively produced  without anyone showing surprise at these remarkable proceedings
                        or even seeming to know who the stranger is. When Schlemihl retires from the
                        company the gray man follows him and offers him the inexhaustible purse of
                        Fortunatus in exchange for his shadow. Schlemihl, poor man, thinking it a
                        small thing to part with at such a price, sells this humble attendant to the
                        devil, and the rest of the book sets forth the calamities that follow
                        — the pity of the old women, the outcry of the children, the
                        contempt of the men, especially the stout ones who have broad shadows of
                        their own. Schlemihl tries to keep in the shade, shuts himself up in his
                        room with his gold, proposes to have a shadow painted, sends his faithful
                        servant Bendel to get his own back from the gray man, but all in vain. The
                        stranger promises, however, to return "in a year and a day."
                    All the splendor procured by Schlemih's wealth is as nothing by the side of
                        the evil fate entailed by the loss of his shadow. He is especially
                        unfortunate in love. At first Fanny smiles upon his suit, but falls
                        senseless when the moon rises and casts only a single shadow as the two sit
                        side by side. Then, when he flees to another country, where the people take
                        him for a king and he wins sweet Mina's heart, his secret is betrayed by
                        Rascal, one of his own hirelings, who robs him at once both of his money and
                        his intended bride.
                    At the end of the year and the day the gray man appears and offers him back
                        his shadow if he will only subscribe a little obligation to surrender to  the bearer his soul after its separation from
                        his body. The argument is cogent. "What sort of a thing is your soul? Have
                        you ever seen it, and what do you think you can do with it after you are
                        dead?" But this time the voice of the tempter is unavailing, for although at
                        first Peter is on the point of yielding when tortured by the sight of his
                        weeping Mina about to be consigned to the arms of the hated Rascal, yet a
                        friendly unconsciousness overcomes him and the contract is not signed.
                    The poor unfortunate again rides forth into the world, followed by the man in
                        gray, until at last Schlemihl in despair flings away the purse, whereupon
                        his evil spirit departs, leaving him free and light-hearted, although poor
                        as well as shadowless and alone in the world.
                    He now avoids human society, and having become possessed of a pair of
                        seven-league boots he is astonished to find himself striding over immense
                        tracts of territory in an incredibly short space of time. Now he first
                        clearly sees his appointed destiny. Shut out from the society of his
                        fellows, nature is to be his compensation. The earth is given to him as a
                        rich garden, and science is to be the purpose of his life. He naturally has
                        facilities for investigation possessed by no one else. He strides through
                        all parts of both continents, passing across Behring Straits from Asia to
                        America, but he deplores the fact that New Holland and other islands of the
                        Pacific are still inaccessible to him, and he gazes from the utmost point of
                        land which his seven-league boots will permit 
                        him to reach, to the unattainable regions beyond the sea, and deems himself
                        as badly off as if he were still behind the bars of a prison, oppressed as
                        he is with the terrible consciousness that his great work on natural
                        history, embracing only the flora and fauna of the two continents, must
                        still remain a fragment.
                    He chooses for his hermitage a cave in the The-bais, and when we leave him he
                        is still engaged in the preparation of his great work.
                    There is an inexhaustible fund of humor in the story. The various excuses
                        given by Schlemihl for the loss of his shadow are certainly grotesque. One
                        was that when he was travelling in Russia it froze so hard that the shadow
                        stuck to the ground; another that a rough man walked so rudely into the
                        shadow that he tore a hole in it and it was sent out to be mended. Another
                        excuse was that it disappeared during a long sickness, with the hair and
                        nails of the hero, and while hair and nails had been restored, the shadow
                        had never come back.
                    "Peter Schlemihl" is written in a charming style. The vocabulary and the
                        diction are extremely simple. This is perhaps due to the fact that the book
                        was intended for a child's story, but still more, I think, to the fact that
                        Chamisso being by birth a Frenchman, his diction has something in it of the
                        clear and luminous character of French prose.
                
                
                
                    THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW
                    WASHINGTON IRVING
                    AS in painting it is not the huge canvas but the miniature which is most
                        finished and delicate in detail, so in American fiction it is a short story
                        of the simplest type, "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow," which furnishes perhaps
                        the choicest illustration of the perfection of literary handiwork.
                    The incidents of the tale are meager; the characters are very few. Ichabod
                        Crane, the Yankee schoolmaster, is pretty much all. But with what a master
                        hand are drawn the few lines that portray his grotesque personality! "He was
                        tall, but exceedingly lank, with narrow shoulders, long arms and legs, hands
                        that dangled a mile out of his sleeves, feet that might have served for
                        shovels, and his whole frame most loosely hung together. His head was small
                        and flat on top, with huge ears, large green glassy eyes, and a long snipe
                        nose, so that it looked like a weather-cock perched on his spindle neck to
                        tell which way the wind blew. To see him striding along the profile of a
                        hill on a windy day, with his clothes bagging and fluttering about him, one
                        might have mistaken him for the genius of famine descending upon the earth,
                        or some scarecrow escaped from a cornfield."
                    In the matter of style, this little sketch is as near perfection as it is
                        possible to come. The  landscape pictures are
                        so life-like that the reader is flushed by the opulence of the autumn
                        harvests "in which the birds were taking their farewell banquets," or hushed
                        by the calm brooding over the Tappan Zee, while the schoolmaster jogs along
                        upon his ancient nag to lay siege to the heart and the inheritance of the
                        fair Katrina Van Tassel. The crullers and doughnuts on the table of the
                        Dutch farmer inspire an appetite in the reader almost as keen as that of the
                        pedagogue; and the final catastrophe, when, after the rejection of his suit,
                        the trembling Ichabod falls a victim to the Headless Horseman, overthrown by
                        the pumpkin hurled from the hands of the irreverent Brom Bones, is a climax
                        worthy of the humor of Cervantes himself. Indeed, there are strong grounds
                        for believing that Don Quixote was the model of the lank pedagogue, who,
                        whether he bestrides Gunpowder, or delves in the lore of ghosts and
                        hobgoblins, or shakes himself to pieces in the dance, irresistibly calls to
                        mind the peerless knight of La Mancha. But whether or not Irving borrowed
                        the lay figure from another, he has moulded the cast upon it so perfectly
                        that Ichabod is all his own.
                
                
                
                    IVANHOE
                    WALTER SCOTT
                    THE novelist who puts the scene of his story in a place and a time far
                        removed from his own has perhaps this advantage, that he offers to his
                        reader scenes that have the charm of strangeness and novelty; but he suffers
                        from a serious drawback,— he can never interpret the thoughts and
                        conduct of his characters with the same truthfulness, nor in quite the same
                        lively manner as if they were familiar to him by daily contact. For the
                        human interest of his drama he has to rely not so much upon temporary or
                        local characteristics as upon those which are common to all periods and all
                        communities. Indeed, if there be any local color, it is apt to be that of
                        the author's own surroundings rather than of those in which the story is
                        laid.
                    In "Ivanhoe," Scott sought to reproduce the period of Richard I, and perhaps
                        the reproduction is as life-like as any that could be made, where the
                        materials are so scanty. The novel belongs distinctly to the romantic
                        school, and contains all the usual ingredients of books of
                        chivalry,— knights errant, heroes in disguise, prodigies of valor,
                        maidens in distress, a foul ravisher, a wandering monarch, a drinking friar,
                        etc. These things are pruned of their most evident absurdities, but the  story is still quite far removed from
                        probability. The plot is palpably a creation of imaginative architecture,
                        resembling some well proportioned temple or villa, rather than the product
                        of natural development like a landscape or like life itself. In places the
                        author invokes the Saxon Chronicle and other authorities in proof of the
                        credibility of his narrative, but these references themselves show that he
                        is not unconscious of the fact that his story stands in need of extraneous
                        support.
                    And yet, this artificiality being once conceded, how beautiful is the
                        structure! How fine the material, and how symmetrically it is put together!
                        Sometimes, perhaps, the narrative lags a little; sometimes the descriptions,
                        like those of Cedric's hall or Athelstane's castle, are longer than the
                        impatience of the reader cares to tolerate. Yet the great scenes of the
                        drama, how vividly do all these stand forth in our memory! How splendid the
                        stage setting and how well arranged the incidents!
                    The story opens quietly. Gurth, the swineherd, and Wamba, the jester of
                        Cedric the Saxon, are driving home a herd of swine, when they are overtaken
                        by Prior Aymer and the Templar Brian de Bois-Guilbert with their train. Then
                        follows the supper scene at Rotherwood, the residence of Cedric, where
                        Ivanhoe, disguised as a wandering palmer, returned from Palestine, visits
                        his father's home, answers the boasting taunts of the Templar, saves the
                        poor Jew, Isaac of York, and is supplied with armor for the coming
                        tourney.
                    
                    Next follows one of the most celebrated scenes in literature, the description
                        of the passage at arms at Ashby, in which Ivanhoe, as the "Disinherited
                        Knight," vanquishes all antagonists and names Rowena, Cedric's ward, as
                        queen of love and beauty, and where, in the melée on the
                        second day, the "Black Sluggard," another unknown knight, turns the fortunes
                        of the fray against the Templar.
                    Perhaps even more admirably constructed are the scenes which
                        follow,— the capture of Cedric, Rowena, Athelstane, Isaac and his
                        daughter Rebecca, by the Norman nobles, and their imprisonment in the castle
                        of Front-de-Boeuf, where they are separated from each other, and where the
                        events which take place simultaneously in different parts of the castle are
                        narrated with great vividness and power. While Cedric and Athelstane are
                        held for ransom, Front-de-Boeuf seeks to extort a vast sum of money from
                        poor Isaac by preparing to roast him alive; De Bracy, a Norman noble,
                        demands the hand of Rowena as the price of her safety and that of Ivanhoe;
                        and the Templar besets Rebecca with his amorous importunities until she
                        prepares to fling herself from the parapet to escape his violence. The
                        interruption of these scenes by a bugle call from without, the demand for
                        the release of the captives made by Wamba, Gurth, the Black Knight, and
                        Locksley, captain of the outlaws, followed by the siege and burning of the
                        castle, constitute perhaps the climax of the story, and are even more
                        impressive than its third  great scene, the
                        trial of Rebecca for sorcery, and her deliverance by Ivanhoe, who appears as
                        her champion at the last moment.
                    Certain episodes are almost as attractive as the main thread of the
                        narrative. For instance, the drinking bout between Friar Tuck and the Black
                        Knight (who turns out to be King Richard) in the chapel in the forest.
                    There are improbabilities in this work which show us very clearly that it is
                        a creation of the imagination rather than a transcript of observations from
                        actual life. Take, for instance, the conversation between Brian de
                        Bois-Guilbert and the captive Rebecca in the castle. It is safe to say that
                        no knight, however profligate, ever began a love-suit to a maiden with a
                        satirical reminder that her father was then being tortured for money in
                        another part of the castle, in such words as the following:.
                    "Know, bright lily of the vale of Baca, that thy father is already in the
                        hands of a powerful alchemist, who knows how to convert into gold and silver
                        even the rusty bars of a dungeon grate. The venerable Isaac is subjected to
                        an alembic, which will distill from him all he holds dear, without any
                        assistance from my requests or thy entreaty. Thy ransom must be paid by love
                        and beauty, and in no other coin will I accept it."
                    And yet, in spite of such defects, the heroism displayed by Rebecca in this
                        particular scene has made it one of the most attractive in the entire story.
                        Rebecca is indeed one of the noblest characters  in fiction, and the portrait is natural and human, as well as heroic.
                        Although she was delivered from the stake by her champion, the story ends
                        sadly for her, since the knight whom she loves has become the husband of
                        Rowena. Scott tells us in his preface that he has been censured for this,
                        but he adds, with admirable taste, that he thinks that a character of a
                        highly virtuous and lofty stamp is degraded rather than exalted by an
                        attempt to reward virtue with temporal prosperity.
                    But to my mind the most attractive person in the book is Wamba, the jester.
                        He appears to me in many ways a close imitation of some of Shakespeare's
                        clowns. His jests are on an average quite as good, and he everywhere awakens
                        our liveliest interest and sympathy, from the hour when he interposes his
                        shield of brawn in front of the Jew at the tournament until the time when he
                        exchanges repartees and songs with the Black Knight on their way through the
                        forest. There is, moreover a strain of pathos in his merriment, and when he
                        enters the castle of Front-de-Boeuf, disguised as a monk, and exchanges his
                        garments with his master, remaining within the castle in expectation of
                        death, the gibes with which he accompanies his sacrifice give to his
                        character something very human, lovable, and withal heroic. Even Shakespeare
                        has hardly given us a better clown.
                    The resuscitation and the appearance of the Saxon noble Athelstane at his own
                        funeral feast is far from artistic. Scott himself calls it a tour
                        
                        de force, and says he put it in at the vehement entreaties
                        of his friend and printer, who was inconsolable at the Saxon being conveyed
                        to the tomb, — an example which ought to be a warning to authors to
                        follow their own judgment rather than that of their friends.
                    In the crucible of Scott's imagination moral qualities are sometimes fused
                        together in such manner that the original ingredients are quite
                        undiscernible. Robin Hood and his outlaws become generous heroes, and Friar
                        Tuck, who is in reality a dissolute and hypocritical monk, becomes amiable
                        and attractive. Indeed, this great writer of romance is filled with such
                        ever present optimism and love of honorable qualities, that it is almost
                        impossible for him to draw the picture of a really detestable man. His
                        novels offer the strongest possible contrast to the pessimistic realism of
                        some of the more recent works of fiction.
                    Men may differ in their estimates of Ivanhoe as a picture of human life and
                        character, but they can hardly differ in their estimate of it as a beautiful
                        piece of poetic imagination.
                
                
                
                    THE BETROTHED
                    ALESSANDRO MANZONI
                    "THE Betrothed," by Manzoni, has not received at the hands of the English or
                        American public that wide celebrity or high rank which it deserves. It is a
                        very great novel. Excepting only "Don Quixote," and some of the masterpieces
                        of Thackeray, I know of nothing more excellent in the whole range of
                        fiction. There is no artificiality, no sensationalism, no straining after
                        effect; but the story proceeds naturally and even quietly through events of
                        great historic as well as tragic interest, to its consummation.
                    The scene opens at a village on the shores of the lake of Como, on an
                        occasion when Don Abbondio, the curate of the parish, is stopped on his way
                        home by two "bravoes" of Don Rodrigo, a nobleman of the locality, and
                        warned, upon pain of death, not to celebrate the marriage of Renzo
                        Tramaglino and Lucia Mondella, which had been fixed for the following day.
                        The scene is a very vivid one, and the terror of Don Abbondio is set forth
                        in the liveliest manner. He is also warned not to disclose the warning; "It
                        will be the same as marrying them," says the bravo. But the poor priest is a
                        leaky vessel, and when he grumbles and complains to his housekeeper
                        Perpetua,  he can not refrain from relating to
                        her the awful threat. Dreadful are his dreams that night of "bravoes, Don
                        Rodrigo, Renzo, cries, muskets"; and on the next day, when he makes
                        blundering excuses to the bridegroom and tries to overwhelm him with Latin
                        quotations which he can not understand, the truth all comes out, for
                        Perpetua has talked with Renzo about "overbearing tyrants," and Renzo at
                        last worms the story, and even the name of the "tyrant," out of the
                        frightened priest.
                    But the wedding is stopped, and Renzo betakes himself to Dr. Azzecca
                        Garbugli, learned in the law, who treats him encouragingly and
                        confidentially, so long as he thinks he has only a malefactor to defend,
                        quoting terrible edicts with the comforting assurance that he can get him
                        off, until he learns that Renzo has come, not to defeat but to seek justice,
                        and that too against the powerful Don Rodrigo. Then he sends the poor fellow
                        away, and will hear nothing in justification of his suit.
                    But the unfortunate lovers have a friend in the person of Father Cristoforo,
                        a monk, who in his early life had killed a man in a rage, and devoted the
                        remainder of his days to the humility and repentance of the cloister. He
                        takes it upon himself to visit Don Rodrigo, and in earnest and indignant
                        words remonstrates with the abandoned nobleman, but he is ordered from the
                        house.
                    And now Agnese, the gossiping mother of Lucia, proposes to accomplish the
                        marriage by craft.  The lovers are to make a
                        declaration before the curate in the presence of witnesses. This, it seems,
                        was a method recognized by law. Renzo undertakes his preparations for the
                        scheme; gains access to Don Abbondio's house through a friend, who comes
                        under pretense of paying rent; but just as they are making the mutual
                        declaration they are interrupted by a great outcry on the part of Don
                        Abbondio, who throws the tablecloth over Lucia's face and stops the
                        proceedings.
                    That same night Don Rodrigo has sent his bravoes to abduct Lucia. They steal
                        into the house, but find it empty, and are suddenly startled by the ringing
                        of the bell, which has followed the outcry of Don Abbondio. "Each of the
                        villains seems to hear in these peals his name, surname, and nickname," and
                        they flee in consternation, while the betrothed betake themselves to the
                        convent of Father Cristoforo, at Pescarenico; and the tumult aroused in the
                        village by these events, admirably pictured by the novelist, at length
                        subsides.
                    Father Cristoforo sends Renzo to Milan, and the women to a convent at Monza,
                        where Lucia is to find refuge with "the Signora," a nun of high rank, who
                        has been compelled by her father to assume the veil. The Signora is proud,
                        passionate, unreconciled. Her history, and the schemes by which her consent
                        to a monastic life had been extorted by alternate persecutions and
                        flatteries, are skillfully delineated, as well as her intrigue with Egidio,
                        an abandoned man, living in a house adjoining 
                        the convent, which intrigue is followed by the mysterious disappearance of a
                        lay sister who has discovered the crime. But "the Signora" now rejoices at
                        the opportunity of thus sheltering an innocent creature like Lucia, whom she
                        takes under her protection.
                    Renzo reaches Milan at the time of the breaking out of the bread riots, due
                        to the prevailing famine. The looting and destruction of one of the
                        bake-houses is vividly described, and also the attack upon the
                        superintendent of provisions. Renzo can not keep out of these exciting
                        scenes, and becomes quite a hero, making a speech to the crowd, innocent
                        enough in purpose, but easily construed into sedition by a secret agent of
                        the government who hears it, attaches himself to Renzo, acts as his guide to
                        an inn in the neighborhood, where the innocent young man unlawfully refuses
                        to give his name to the inn-keeper, but unwittingly reveals it to his guide;
                        then goes to bed intoxicated, is arrested next morning, escapes from the
                        officers of justice in the midst of the crowd, flees from the city, and does
                        not stop until he has quit the duchy of Milan, crossed the Adda, and taken
                        refuge with his cousin Bortolo in the Bergamascan territory — all
                        of which is followed by proceedings declaring him a dangerous
                        outlaw,—luckily, however, after he is well out of reach.
                    Through the intrigues of Don Rodrigo, the monk Cristoforo is sent away to
                        Rimini, and the nobleman now betakes himself to the castle of a great lord,
                        whose name is not given, so dreadful  were the
                        crimes he was said to have committed. The Unnamed took upon himself the task
                        of kidnapping Lucia from the convent, and for this purpose availed himself
                        of Egidio, who compelled the Signora to betray the girl committed to her
                        keeping and to send Lucia on a pretended message, to be seized, thrown into
                        a carriage, and driven to that lair of robbers, the castle of the Unnamed.
                        But so great are her sufferings, so moving her piteous appeals, that even
                        the heart of the outlaw is touched, and he falters in his desperate scheme.
                        Lucia in her agony prays to the Madonna for deliverance, and, resolving to
                        sacrifice what she holds most dear, she determines to give up her beloved
                        Renzo, and vows to remain a virgin.
                    A fine description is given of the remorse which steals over the conscience
                        of the desperate malefactor, his despair at the contemplation of a career
                        which is now drawing near its close, with its inevitable termination, and
                        the thought, "If there should really be another life!" He hears again the
                        piteous words of Lucia when she besought him to set her free, "God pardons
                        so many sins for one deed of mercy!"
                    When the morning breaks after a night of this remorse, he hears the distant
                        chiming of bells; learns of the festival of the people in the neighborhood
                        who were going to meet their bishop, Cardinal Federigo Borromeo, and, by a
                        sudden impulse, he too determines to go and present himself to the cardinal.
                        The history of this great prelate, a saintly man, is given in
                        detail—his works  of charity, his
                        writings, his efforts in the cause of education. The Unnamed is welcomed by
                        the Cardinal with joy and genuine tenderness, and the details of a religious
                        conversion, often repulsive to an unsympathetic reader, here become, through
                        the author's skill, both natural and attractive.
                    Don Abbondio, to his great consternation is now sent with the celebrated
                        outlaw to fetch Lucia from his castle. He goes thither, trembling,
                        grumbling, and complaining to himself like an old woman. The poor girl is
                        released, and believes, of course, that her deliverance is due to the
                        Madonna.
                    Shortly afterwards the cardinal, on the occasion of a visit to Don Abbondio's
                        parish, takes the poor priest to task for his violated duty in refusing to
                        celebrate the marriage. There are few passages in literature more impressive
                        than the solemn severity of his reproof;—
                    "Signor Curate, why did you not unite in marriage this Lucia with her
                        bethrothed husband?". . . .
                    "Don Abbondio began to relate the doleful history; but suppressing the
                        principal name, he merely substituted a great Signor; thus
                        giving to prudence the little that he could in such an emergency.
                    "'And you have no other motive? 'asked the Cardinal, having attentively heard
                        the whole.
                    "'Perhaps I have not sufficiently explained myself,'replied Don Abbondio. 'I
                        was prohibited under pain of death to perform this marriage.'
                    "'And does this appear to you a sufficient reason for omitting a positive
                        duty?'
                    
                    "'I have always endeavored to do my duty, even at very great inconvenience;
                        but when one's life is concerned. . . ."
                    "'And when you presented yourself to the church,' said Federigo, in a still
                        more solemn tone,' to receive Holy Orders, did she caution you about your
                        life?' . . . 'He from whom we have received teaching and example, in
                        imitation of whom we suffer ourselves to be called, and call ourselves,
                        shepherds; when He descended upon earth to execute His office, did He lay
                        down as a condition the safety of His life? And to save it, to preserve it,
                        I say, a few days longer upon earth, at the expense of charity and duty, did
                        he institute the holy unction, the imposition of hands, the gift of the
                        priesthood? Leave it to the world to teach this virtue, to advocate this
                        doctrine. What do I say? Oh, shame! the world itself rejects it; the world
                        also makes its own laws, which fix the limits of good and evil; it, too, has
                        its gospel, a gospel of pride and hatred; and it will not have it said that
                        the love of life is a reason for transgressing its precepts. It will not,
                        and it is obeyed. And we! children and proclaimers of the promise! What
                        would the Church be, if such language as yours were that of all your
                        brethren?'
                    "'I repeat, my Lord,' answered Don Abbondio, 'that I shall be to blame. . . .
                        One can't give one's self courage.'
                    "'And why then, I might ask you, did you undertake an office which binds upon
                        you a continual warfare with the passions of the world? . . . Ah, if for so
                        many years of pastoral labors you have loved your flock (and how could you
                            not love them?) —if you have placed in them
                        your affections, your cares, your happiness, courage ought not to fail you
                        in the moment of need; love is intrepid.'"
                    
                    This discourse, which is much longer than I have quoted, gives us an
                        admirable ideal of the episcopal office, and through the whole of it the
                        contrast between these two natures vividly appears, without any apparent
                        effort on the part of the author to produce it.
                    In the meantime, Renzo, who has been in hiding under an assumed name, has
                        established secret communication with Agnese, the mother of his betrothed,
                        and is naturally greatly disgusted to learn of Lucia's vow. Lucia has found
                        refuge at Milan with a distinguished lady, one Donna Prassede, who is a type
                        of the "superior woman "— one of those pestilent, unsympathetic
                        natures, determined to do good to others at whatever violence to their
                        feelings; who feels herself the instrument of Heaven and with a
                        consciousness of innate superiority, and great display of patronage,
                        torments Lucia by denouncing the unworthy outlaw to whom her affections have
                        been engaged.
                    Up to this point the narrative has traversed scenes common enough to the
                        period with which it deals; but here it takes up the story of one of the
                        most terrible public calamities which history records — the
                        appearance of the plague in Milan. The scenes of the preceding famine are
                        vividly described; the inefficacy of the ridiculous legal remedies by which
                        it was proposed to supply the lack of natural resources; the establishment
                        of the Lazaretto; the war raging in Italy, which distracted the attention of
                        the authorities; and, finally, the invasion of the German army, by which the
                        plague  was introduced into the territory of
                        Milan. A historical account is given of the introduction of the contagion,
                        and the various stages of public sentiment in regard to it.
                    "First, then, it was not the plague, absolutely not — by no means;
                        the very utterance of the term was prohibited. Then, it was pestilential
                        fevers; the idea was indirectly admitted in the adjective. Then, it was not
                        the true nor real plague; that is to say, it was the plague, but only in a
                        certain sense; not positively and undoubtedly the plague, but something to
                        which no other name could be affixed. Lastly, it was the plague without
                        doubt, without dispute; but even then another idea was appended to it, the
                        idea of poison and witchcraft, which altered and confounded that conveyed in
                        the word they could no longer repress."
                    There are descriptions of the processions in the streets, the exhibition of
                        the body of San Carlo Borromeo, and of the public rage against the supposed
                        poisoners. But the most vivid part of the description begins when the author
                        again takes up the thread of his story and describes the return of Don
                        Rodrigo from a carousal, where he had excited great laughter by a funeral
                        eulogium on his kinsman, Count Attilio, who had been carried off by the
                        disease two days before. There is a powerful description of the coming on of
                        the fatal malady, on his return, and of the dreams that tormented him in his
                        sleep.
                    "He went on from one thing to another, till he seemed  to find himself in a large church, in the first ranks, in the
                        midst of a great crowd of people; there he was, wondering how he had got
                        there, how the thought had ever entered his head, particularly at such a
                        time; and he felt in his heart excessively vexed. He looked at the
                        bystanders; they had all pale, emaciated countenances, with staring and
                        glistening eyes, and hanging lips; their garments were tattered and falling
                        to pieces; and through the rents appeared livid spots, and swellings. 'Make
                        room, you rabble! 'he fancied he cried, looking towards the door, which was
                        far, far away; and accompanying the cry with a threatening expression of
                        countenance, but without moving a limb; nay, even drawing up his body to
                        avoid coming in contact with those polluted creatures, who crowded only too
                        closely upon him on every side. But not one of the senseless beings seemed
                        to move, nor even to have heard him; nay, they pressed still more upon him;
                        and, above all, it felt as if some one of them, with his elbow, or whatever
                        it might be, was pushing against his left side, between the heart and
                        arm-pit, where he felt a painful, and as it were, heavy pressure. And if he
                        writhed himself to get rid of this uneasy feeling, immediately a fresh
                        unknown something began to prick him in the very same place. Enraged, he
                        attempted to lay his hand on his sword; and then it seemed as if the
                        thronging of the multitude had raised it up level with his chest, and that
                        it was the hilt of it which pressed so in that spot; and the moment he
                        touched it he felt a still sharper stitch. He cried out, panted, and would
                        have uttered a still louder cry, when, behold! all these faces turned in one
                        direction. He looked the same way, perceived a pulpit, and saw slowly rising
                        above its edge something round, smooth, and shining; then rose, and
                        distinctly appeared, a bald head; then two eyes, a face, a long and white
                        beard, and the upright figure of a friar, visible above the  sides down to the girdle; it was Friar
                        Cristoforo! Darting a look around upon his audience, he seemed to Don
                        Rodrigo to fix his gaze on him, at the same time raising his hand in exactly
                        the attitude he had assumed in that room on the ground floor in his palace.
                        Don Rodrigo then himself lifted up his hands in fury, and made an effort, as
                        if to throw himself forward and grasp that arm extended in the air; a voice,
                        which had been vainly and secretly struggling in his throat, burst forth in
                        a great howl; and he awoke. He dropped the arm he had in reality uplifted,
                        strove, with some difficulty, to recover the right meaning of everything,
                        and to open his eyes, for the light of the already advanced day gave him no
                        less uneasiness than that of the candle had done; recognized his bed and his
                        chamber; understood that all had been a dream; the church, the people, the
                        friar, all had vanished — all, but one thing — that pain
                        in his left side. Together with this, he felt a frightful acceleration of
                        palpitation at the heart, a noise and humming in his ears, a raging fire
                        within, and a weight in all his limbs, worse than when he lay down. He
                        hesitated a little before looking at the spot that pained him; at length, he
                        uncovered it, and glanced at it with a shudder; — there was a
                        hideous spot, of a livid purple hue."
                    The unhappy man now finds that he has been betrayed by Griso, the chief of
                        his bravoes, who, under pretense of bringing the doctor, has introduced into
                        the room the horrible monatti, whose duty it is to drag
                        away the dead to their graves and the sick to the Lazaretto. They plunder
                        the stricken man of his treasures before his eyes, and then carry him
                        away.
                    In the meantime Renzo, who has had the plague 
                        in the Bergamascan territory, finds it safe to return home, amid the general
                        confusion, and proceeds to Milan to find Lucia. The terrible scenes in the
                        streets are graphically described, but the realism is combined with a
                        certain delicacy on the part of the author which renders even its most
                        dreadful details not wholly repulsive. For instance, Renzo sees coming down
                        the steps of one of the doorways
                    "A woman with the delicate, yet majestic beauty, which is conspicuous in the
                        Lombard blood. Her gait was weary, but not tottering; no tears fell from her
                        eyes, though they bore tokens of having shed many; there was something
                        peaceful and profound in her sorrow, which indicated a mind fully conscious
                        and sensitive enough to feel it. . . . She carried in her arms a little
                        child, about nine years old, now a lifeless body; but laid out and arranged,
                        with her hair parted on her forehead, and in a white and remarkably clean
                        dress, as if those hands had decked her out for a long promised feast,
                        granted as a reward. Nor was she lying there, but upheld and adjusted on one
                        arm, with her breast reclining against her mother's, like a living creature;
                        save that a delicate little hand, as white as wax, hung from one side with a
                        kind of inanimate weight, and the head rested upon her mother's shoulder
                        with an abandonment deeper than that of sleep: her mother; for, even if
                        their likeness to each other had not given assurance of the fact, the
                        countenance which still depicted any feeling would have clearly revealed
                        it."
                    "A horrible looking monatto approached the woman, and
                        attempted to take the burden from her arms, with a kind of unusual respect,
                        however, and with involuntary hesitation. But she, slightly drawing back,
                        yet with the  air of one who shows neither
                        scorn nor displeasure, said, 'No, don't take her from me yet; I must place
                        her myself on this cart; here.' So saying, she opened her hand, displayed a
                        purse which she held in it, and dropped it into that which the monatto extended towards her. She then continued: 'Promise me not
                        to take a thread from around her, nor let any one else attempt to do so, and
                        to lay her in the ground thus.'
                    "The monatto laid his right hand on his heart; and then
                        zealously, and almost obsequiously, rather from the new feeling by which he
                        was, as it were, subdued, than on account of the unlooked-for reward,
                        hastened to make a little room on the car for the infant dead. The lady,
                        giving it a kiss on the forehead, laid it on the spot prepared for it, as
                        upon a bed, arranged it there, covering it with a pure white linen cloth,
                        and pronounced the parting words: 'Farewell, Cecilia! rest in peace! This
                        evening we, too, will join you, to rest together forever. In the meanwhile,
                        pray for us; for I will pray for you and the others.' Then, turning again to
                        the monatto, 'You,'said she, 'when you pass this way in
                        the evening, may come to fetch me too, and not me only.'
                    "So saying, she re-entered the house, and, after an instant, appeared at the
                        window, holding in her arms another more dearly-loved one, still living, but
                        with the marks of death on its countenance. She remained to contemplate
                        these so unworthy obsequies of the first child, from the time the car
                        started until it was out of sight, and then disappeared. And what remained
                        for her to do, but to lay upon the bed the only one that was left her, and
                        to stretch herself beside it, that they might die together, as the flower
                        already full blown upon the stem falls together with the bud still enfolded
                        in its calyx, under the scythe which levels alike all the herbage of the
                        field."
                    
                    Renzo learns that Lucia has been taken to the Lazaretto, and he proceeds
                        thither. The scenes in that dreadful abode of suffering are described in
                        detail. Here he meets Father Cristoforo, who in tending the sick is already
                        falling a victim.
                    "His voice was feeble, hollow, and as changed as everything else about him.
                        His eye alone was what it always was, or had something about it even more
                        bright and resplendent; as if Charity, elevated by the approaching end of
                        her labors, and exulting in the consciousness of being near her source,
                        restored to it a more ardent and purer fire than that which infirmity was
                        every hour extinguishing."
                    Renzo learns that Don Rodrigo himself is lying unconscious in one of the
                        miserable hovels, and, filled at first with rage at the recollection of the
                        man who has caused him so much wretchedness, he is at last brought, by the
                        commanding reproofs of Father Cristoforo, into such a forgiving spirit that
                        he can pray for his enemy's salvation.
                    Renzo seeks Lucia in vain amid the procession of the few persons who were
                        going forth cured from the Lazaretto, but he finds her at last, convalescent
                        in one of the little huts in the woman's quarters. A very characteristic
                        conversation ensued between the lovers in regard to the binding nature of
                        her vow, which Renzo naturally disputes, and calls Father Cristoforo to
                        remonstrate and interpose. The good father consolingly tells Lucia that she
                        had no right to offer to the Lord the will of another to whom she was
                        already  pledged; and by virtue of the
                        authority of the church he absolves her from her vow. It is not long until
                        the lovers, restored to their former happiness, leave the Lazaretto; and the
                        book concludes with the consummation of their wishes — their
                        marriage, and a happy wedded life.
                    A great deal of quiet satire pervades the story. Take, for instance, the
                        following, in the description of Lecco, at the very opening of the book:
                    "At the time the events happened which we undertake to recount, this town,
                        already of considerable importance, was also a place of defense, and for
                        that reason had the honor of lodging a commander, and the advantage of
                        possessing a fixed garrison of Spanish soldiers, who taught modesty to the
                        damsels and matrons of the country; bestowed from time to time marks of
                        their favor on the shoulders of a husband or a father; and never failed, in
                        autumn, to disperse themselves in the vineyards, to thin the grapes, and
                        lighten for the peasant the labors of the vintage."
                    There is a great deal of homely philosophy intermixed with this satire. For
                        instance, the criticism of
                    "those prudent persons who shrink back with alarm from the extreme of virtue
                        as well as vice, are forever proclaiming that perfection lies in the medium
                        between the two, and fix that medium exactly at the point which they have
                        reached, and where they find themselves very much at their ease."
                    These delicate touches come in most appropriately,  and, as it were, spontaneously from the context. They are
                        never lugged in head foremost, for the evident purpose of saying a good
                        thing.
                    The book abounds in apt similes; for instance, in the following description
                        of Perpetua's vain efforts to keep a secret:
                    "But certain it is that such a secret in the poor woman's breast was like
                        very new wine in an old and badly-hooped cask, which ferments, and bubbles,
                        and boils, and if it does not send the bung into the air, works itself about
                        till it issues in froth, and penetrates between the staves, and oozes out in
                        drops here and there, so that one can taste it, and almost decide what kind
                        of wine it is."
                    When the bravoes, led by Griso, in the guise of a pilgrim, attempt to carry
                        off Lucia from her home and are suddenly thrown into consternation by the
                        pealing of the bell, the author tells us:
                    "It required all the authority of Griso to keep them together, so that it
                        might be a retreat and not a flight. Just as a dog urging a drove of pigs,
                        runs here and there after those that break the ranks, seizes one by the
                        ears, and drags him into the herd, propels another with his nose, barks at a
                        third that leaves the line at the same moment, so the pilgrim laid hold of
                        one of his troop just passing the threshold, and drew him back, detained
                        with his staff others who had almost reached it, called after some who were
                        flying they knew not whither, and finally succeeded in assembling them all
                        in the middle of the court-yard."
                    The characters are extremely well described.
                    
                    Perhaps the two lovers are the least striking of any in the book. Lucia is a
                        simple peasant girl; Renzo, a rash, impulsive, kindly boy, easily led, a
                        very natural, grown-up child such as Italy produces in greater luxuriance
                        than colder and severer latitudes. There are no passionate love scenes in
                        the book. The affection of the betrothed for each other seems rather an
                        incident than the principal theme of the story. Don Ferrante, the husband of
                        Donna Prassede, is a fine type of scholastic pedantry. The catalogue of his
                        ridiculous acquirements in the absurd philosophy and learning of the time,
                        with long lists of authors now unknown, reminds us of the studies of Don
                        Quixote; Don Ferrante, too, is skilled in the science of chivalry, wherein
                        he enjoyed the title of "Professor, "and" not only argued on it in a real,
                        masterly manner, but, frequently requested to interfere in affairs of honor,
                        always gave some decision."
                    The officiousness of Donna Prassede is well set forth in the following:
                    "It was well for Lucia that she was not the only one to whom Donna Prassede
                        had to do good. . . . Besides the rest of the family, all of whom were
                        persons more or less needing amendment and guidance — besides all
                        the other occasions which offered themselves to her, or she contrived to
                        find, of extending the same kind offices, of her own free will, to many to
                        whom she was under no obligations; she had also five daughters, none of whom
                        were at home, but who gave her much more to think about than if they had
                        been. Three of these were nuns, two were married; hence Donna Prassede
                        naturally found herself  with three
                        monasteries, and two houses to superintend; a vast and complicated
                        undertaking, and the more arduous, because two husbands, backed by fathers,
                        mothers, and brothers; three abbesses, supported by other dignitaries, and
                        by many nuns, would not accept her superintendence. It was a complete
                        warfare, alias five warfares, concealed, and even
                        courteous, up to a certain point, but ever active, ever vigilant. There was
                        in every one of these places a continued watchfulness to avoid her
                        solicitude, to close the door against her counsels, to elude her inquiries,
                        and to keep her in the dark, as far as possible, on every undertaking. We do
                        not mention the resistance, the difficulties she encountered in the
                        management of other still more extraneous affairs; it is well known that one
                        must generally do good to men by force."
                    The story, like some other of the greatest works of fiction — like
                        Don Quixote, Les Miserables, nay, like Henry Esmond itself, is somewhat too
                        prolix. The long historical citations, the extracts from the edicts and
                        proclamations of the time, look as if the author considered it necessary to
                        prove his story rather than to let it prove itself. That Renzo and Lucia
                        should leave Father Cristoforo to die alone is, to my mind, the most serious
                        blemish in the book; but in spite of these shortcomings, "The Betrothed" is
                        entitled to one of the first places in the front rank of the masterpieces of
                        fiction.
                
                
                
                    EUGENIE GRANDET
                    HONORÉ DE BALZAC
                    IT is not quite fair to Balzac to judge him by any one of the stories in his
                        encyclopædic "Comedie Humaine. "The countless varieties of life and
                        character which he portrays show the author's versatility and power, and
                        have perhaps a value from their very number which can not be adequately
                        treated when we consider only a single specimen of his work. Many of his
                        characters, it is true, are grotesques; some are absolute deformities;
                        others are hard to understand by any but a Frenchman,— French human
                        nature, as it seems to me, being a little different from human nature
                        elsewhere; but there is one great work of his which, although it is not
                        without its morbid side, must appeal to the common consciousness of all
                        mankind, and bring to every human heart the conviction of its spiritual
                        truth. "Eugenie Grandet" is a novel of this universal kind of
                        excellence.
                    The plot is a very simple one. M. Grandet is a miser who lives in an old
                        comfortless house in Saumur with his wife, his daughter Eugenie, and big
                        Nanon, the maid of all work. The Cruchots and the De Grassins are intriguing
                        for the hand of the heiress, and on Eugenie's birthday, when all  these are assembled, a stranger unexpectedly
                        appears, Charles Grandet, her cousin, committed to the care of his uncle by
                        his father in Paris, who has become a bankrupt and has determined upon
                        suicide. Charles, however, knows nothing of this, and is overcome with
                        pitiful grief when he learns of his father's death. Eugenie, a simple minded
                        girl, falls in love with him, but the old miser, anxious to get rid of him,
                        sends him to the Indies. Grandet's tyranny over his wife and child is
                        graphically portrayed. The poor wife succumbs to it and dies. It is not long
                        till the miser follows her, and Eugenie is left alone with a colossal
                        fortune for which she cares nothing, and with a lover from whom she has
                        received no word. In the meantime Charles has acquired a fortune of his own,
                        and on his return writes to her that he wishes to marry another. Her dream
                        is over, the light of her life is extinguished; she gives her hand without
                        her heart to Cruchot, and upon his death continues her hopeless life alone
                        in the desolate home, administering her estate with economy, but devoting
                        its proceeds to works of beneficence.
                    This is a story, the like of which has happened many a time in actual life,
                        but the cold skeleton of the tale as given above conveys not the slightest
                        idea of the warm flesh and blood with which it is invested. The description
                        of the old street and the dreary house and its furniture is a literary
                        jewel. The account of the way in which Grandet accumulates his fortune, and
                        of the neighborhood rumors regarding his wealth, stirs our  own acquisitiveness as we read it, and shows
                        him to be a very natural and almost inevitable sort of miser. He is moreover
                        a man of commanding ability, who extorts respect even though he inspires
                        abhorrence. The details of his habits, his economies, and his schemes, as
                        well as his personal appearance, are admirably given. Equally lifelike are
                        the descriptions of big Nanon, the devoted house-servant, starved and
                        overtasked, yet always grateful to the master who took her when none others
                        would; of the wife, submissive, sensitive, magnanimous, and uncomplaining;
                        and of Eugenie, a girl who has grown up in perfect innocence of the world,
                        pure, beautiful, and of a generous and noble spirit. All these are the
                        subjects of an odious domestic tyranny on the part of "Goodman Grandet, "the
                        particulars of which are set forth with powerful fidelity.
                    Charles is a rather uninteresting young dandy, who comes arrayed for
                        conquest. It is not unnatural that an artless girl like Eugenie should fall
                        in love with him, and her devices to procure him such luxuries as a cake, a
                        wax candle, and sugar for his coffee, add to the charm of their simple
                        love-making. The sympathy of the two women in his sorrow contrasts sharply
                        with the sordid calculations of the miser, and the scene where Eugenie
                        learns his needs by furtively reading two of his letters (for even her good
                        qualities are decidedly of the French type) and then brings him her little
                        store of gold, and when he hesitates, begs him on her knees to take it
                        — this  scene is very effective, as
                        is also her despairing cry, after he departs, "O mother, mother, if I had
                        God's power for one moment!"
                    But the more tragic parts of this simple drama are near its close,—
                        the stormy scene when Grandet learns that Eugenie has given Charles her
                        money, her imprisonment in a room of the old house, her mother's illness and
                        patient death, and, ghastliest of all, the last hours of the miser:
                    "So long as he could open his eyes, where the last sparks of life seemed to
                        linger, they used to turn at once to the door of the room where all his
                        treasures lay, and he would say to his daughter, in tones that seemed to
                        thrill with a panic of fear:
                    "'Are they there still?'
                    "'Yes, father.'
                    "'Keep watch over the gold! . . . Let me see the gold.'
                    "Then Eugenie used to spread out the louis on a table before him, and he
                        would sit for whole hours with his eyes fixed on the louis in an unseeing
                        stare, like that of a child who begins to see for the first time; and
                        sometimes a weak infantine smile, painful to see, would steal across his
                        features.
                    "'That warms me!' he muttered more than once, and his face expressed a
                        perfect content.
                    "When the curé came to administer the sacrament, all the life seemed to have
                        died out of the miser's eyes, but they lit up for the first time for many
                        hours at the sight of the silver crucifix, the candlesticks, and holy water
                        vessel, all of silver; he fixed his gaze on the precious metal, and the wen
                        on his face twitched for the last time.
                    "As the priest held the gilded crucifix above him that  the image of Christ might be laid to his lips, he made a
                        frightful effort to clutch it — a last effort which cost him his
                        life. He called Eugenie, who saw nothing; she was kneeling beside him,
                        bathing in tears the hand that was growing cold already. 'Give me your
                        blessing, father, 'she entreated. 'Be very carefull' the last words came
                        from him; 'one day you will render an account to me of everything here
                        below. 'Which utterance clearly shows that a miser should adopt Christianity
                        as his religion."
                    Then follows the long waiting of Eugenie; the dastardly letter sent by
                        Charles after his return; the noble dignity with which she releases him and
                        pays his father's creditors to preserve the honor of one who is quite
                        careless of it himself, and then resigns herself to her hopeless
                        destiny.
                    "Eugenie Grandet" is a consummate work of art.
                
                
                
                    DEAD SOULS
                    NIKOLAI GOGOL
                    "DEAD SOULS," the masterpiece of Gogol, is not very widely known among
                        English readers, but it is entitled to a high rank in literature. Perhaps
                        the fact that it is a torso has been one cause of this neglect, for before
                        the second volume was finished the author was overtaken by that madness
                        which clouded his last days. But the first volume is practically complete in
                        itself. It records the efforts of the smug, shrewd, rascally Tchitschikoff
                        to procure from various landowners certain paper transfers of the serfs who
                        had died on their estates since the last enumeration in order to effect a
                        fraudulent loan by means of a list corresponding with the official register.
                        The description of the stranger, of his sudden arrival in a provincial city,
                        of the various estates he visits and the remarkable people he encounters,
                        and then, while his enterprise is prospering, of the sudden spreading of the
                        scandal through the town and his forced flight to other regions—
                        these things are told with a power of portraiture which is amazing. The
                        characters he describes are sometimes grotesque, but they are faithful to
                        the essentials of human nature; even the wild Nozdreff and the massive
                        Sobakevitch are very real. Gogol has been called the Dickens of Russian
                        literature,  and his portraits, while fewer in
                        number and variety, are less like puppets than many of those drawn by the
                        English novelist. His description of Pliushkin the miser is quite as
                        striking as that of L'Avare of Moliere or Pére Grandet of Balzac, while his
                        account of the way the gossip regarding Tchitschikoff started and circulated
                        is as fine as anything in "The School for Scandal. "He calls his book a
                        "poem," and although it is quite devoid of versification or lofty diction,
                        yet if the word "poem" means a "work of original creative art," "Dead Souls"
                        will fully justify the name.
                    It has the same sort of masterly quality as "Don Quixote," and transports us
                        as completely to the scenes which it describes. His patriotic apostrophe to
                        Russia in the final chapter, and his description of the swift flight of the
                        hero in his troika, are picturesque and eloquent to the last degree.
                
                
                
                    THE THREE GUARDSMEN
                    ALEXANDRE DUMAS
                    PROBABLY there is no better example of the novel of adventure than "The Three
                        Guardsmen," by Alexandre Dumas. The author claims in his preface a
                        historical origin for his novel. However that may be, the plot seems
                        plausible in spite of its extravagances, and never was there a book in which
                        men conspired and slaughtered each other more merrily, nor in which the mere
                        strenuous life without moral accessories has found a more perfect
                        embodiment.
                    The book in its way is a masterpiece. The style is simple and luminous to
                        such a degree as would hardly be possible in any other language than that in
                        which it was written. No work in the world is more easy to read, to
                        understand, or to translate. The old French dictum that no words should be
                        used in literature which can not be understood upon the marketplace here
                        attains its highest realization.
                    As for the characters, they are of the simplest type. The dashing
                        devil-may-care soldier and adventurer, the deep drinker, the heavy player,
                        the man who with equal gayety defies the bullets of the enemy and the
                        commonest precepts of morality, has here his apotheosis. Perhaps the hero of
                        the book even more than D'Artagnan himself  is
                        Athos, the chief of the three musketeers, who, having made an unfortunate
                        marriage in his youth, has forsaken his name and station and embarked upon a
                        life of mere adventure. We love him and admire him, and yet it is hard to
                        tell why upon any logical or ethical principles we should do either. Yet
                        when he gets very drunk, or when he hangs his wife because he finds that she
                        bears upon her shoulder the mark of a criminal conviction, we feel that he
                        has done in each case exactly the right thing. Generally a novelist seeks by
                        contrasting his hero with more commonplace characters to set him off in
                        relief, but in this novel almost everybody is a hero, and all are equally
                        and superlatively great and admirable, except perhaps the poor woman who has
                        been hanged and comes to life again and engages in divers diabolical plots
                        against the rest of the world.
                
                
                
                    JANE EYRE
                    CHARLOTTE BRONTE
                    "JANE EYRE" is a book which impresses the reader with its power,— I
                        might say its masculine power, were it not for the fact that the author
                        gives us at every turn the woman's point of view.
                    The narrative, like that of "David Copperfield," is in the form of an
                        autobiography, and the plot, which is quite simple, has only that sort of
                        unity which the heroine gives it. Yet the work glows with intense passion
                        and the characters are so faithful to nature that they convince us that
                        vivid personal experience must have come to the aid of the author's
                        imagination in delineating them.
                    Jane Eyre, an orphan, is abused and mistreated in childhood, first in the
                        family of Mrs. Reed, where she is brought up, and afterwards at the Lowood
                        charity school, where she is first a pupil and then becomes a teacher. She
                        seeks a situation as governess, and finds employment at Thornfield Hall, the
                        residence of a Mr. Rochester, who, after a wild, dissipated, wandering life,
                        has come, some time before, into possession of this splendid property. Here
                        she has the charge of Adele, his ward.
                    There is a certain uncanny secret about Thorn-field which the governess finds
                        herself unable to  fathom. She hears wild
                        laughter and inarticulate sounds in a distant part of the Hall. One night
                        Rochester's bed is mysteriously set on fire, and Jane Eyre saves his life.
                        On another occasion, while the house is full of guests, a horrible shriek
                        comes from the upper floor and a murder is well nigh committed by some
                        unknown creature who is hidden there.
                    In the meantime Mr. Rochester has become greatly interested in his little
                        governess, who, although quiet and plain in appearance, is warmhearted and
                        high-spirited, with a strong sense of duty, great courage, and an
                        indomitable will. And she on her side becomes fascinated and at last utterly
                        devoted to her master, a man of brilliant parts, strong, brusque, proud and
                        autocratic. He offers her his hand, and she accepts him, to learn, however,
                        in the very presence of the altar and during the wedding ceremony, that he
                        has another wife! It seems that in his early years he had been beguiled into
                        a marriage in the West Indies with a woman whose dissolute courses had
                        wrecked his life, and had terminated in her own madness, and that this was
                        the maniac who had occasioned the strange scenes at the Hall.
                    Jane Eyre now flees from Thornfield, concealing all traces of her
                        whereabouts. She wanders amid incredible hardships and destitution, and at
                        last finds shelter at Moor House, the home of St. John Rivers and his two
                        sisters, who are afterwards discovered to be her relatives, and with whom
                        she divides a legacy which she receives from 
                        a deceased uncle. St. John is a country clergyman of high character, full of
                        zeal, ambition, and fanaticism, and determined to devote his life to
                        missionary service in India. He seeks her hand, but she realizes that it is
                        not from love but to make her his fellow laborer in the work of the Gospel.
                        He has sought to inspire her with his own enthusiasm, and she is on the
                        point of yielding, when she seems to hear the voice of Rochester calling to
                        her in pain and anguish. She returns to Thornfield, and finds that the Hall
                        has been consumed in a conflagration kindled by the maniac, and that
                        Rochester, who had sought in vain to save the life of the wretched creature,
                        has been himself rescued, blind and a cripple, from the ruins. She seeks him
                        and becomes his wife.
                    But the bare recital of these leading events gives very little idea of the
                        characters in this somber and tragic tale, or the feelings which control
                        their actions. The book must be read through to be understood. From the very
                        beginning the author strikes a resounding chord in human nature. Brutality
                        to children stirs us to fury, and no one, not even Dickens or Victor Hugo,
                        has painted this form of tyranny in livelier colors than Charlotte Brontë.
                        The conduct of Mrs. Reed and of Rev. Mr. Brocklehurst, the sanctified and
                        inhuman director of Lowood school, arouses our hot resentment.
                    Of course there are blemishes in the book. Sometimes the conversation is too
                        carefully written to be natural. Then there is an intrinsic improbability
                             in the plot. Why should a young woman so
                        self-sufficient as the heroine consent to marry Rochester before she had
                        solved the secret of Thornfield? But these defects in the novel are trifling
                        by the side of its abounding excellences. At nearly every point the heroine
                        awakens our admiration; we feel (sometimes, perhaps, in spite of our better
                        judgment) that she is doing right; and so masterly is the author's
                        portraiture that, in spite of many repulsive features, she awakens a
                        stronger sympathy for the seared and blighted Rochester than for the pure
                        and devoted yet inexorable St. John Rivers. Jane Eyre is an eloquent novel.
                        It is emphatically a work of genius.
                
                
                
                    CARMEN
                    PROSPER MERIMÉE
                    IT has always seemed to me that "Carmen" was a story of great power and told
                        with wonderful skill. I know not whether it be fact, nor whether the author
                        has learned it in the way he says; but so convincing is the narrative, it
                        seems to me impossible that it is a mere product of the imagination. Yet the
                        leading characters are so abnormal that I sometimes wonder why I believe
                        this story so thoroughly. It must be because it is true.
                    The author, in pursuing certain archéological researches to discover the site
                        of the ancient battle of Munda, comes with his guide upon a secluded
                        amphitheatre among the rocks, where he suddenly encounters an outlaw, José
                        Navarro, whom he makes his friend by the exchange of some simple courtesies
                        and by warning him at the humble venta where they lodge together, of the
                        approach of the officers of justice.
                    Some days afterwards, while the author was leaning upon the parapet of the
                        quay at Cordova, Carmen, a young gipsy girl of a strange and savage beauty,
                        comes and sits near him. After some conversation he accompanies her to her
                        residence to have his fortune told. Suddenly the door  opens, and Navarro, in a very bad humor, enters the room. A
                        quarrel ensues between him and Carmen in the gipsy language, and it appears
                        from the gestures that the young girl is urging the bandit to cut the
                        stranger's throat. He refuses, takes the author by the arm, leads him into
                        the street, and directs him home.
                    Some time afterwards the narrator, in passing through Cordova, learns that
                        Navarro has been condemned to death, and upon a visit to the prison the day
                        before his execution, the bandit tells him the strange story of his liaison
                        with this wild and cruel, yet fascinating girl.
                    At the great cigar factory at Seville she has a bloody altercation with one
                        of her fellow operatives. Navarro, a rough, green soldier stationed in that
                        city, is ordered to conduct her to prison. She talks to him in his own
                        Basque tongue, pretending to be his fellow countryman, and pleads with him
                        to release her. Inflamed with a sudden passion, he suffers her to escape,
                        and is himself degraded and imprisoned. She secretly sends to him in his
                        cell the means of securing his freedom, and after his release she gives him
                        the liveliest proofs of her gratitude and affection. But she is capricious
                        and fickle to the last degree. Urged by jealousy, Navarro kills an officer
                        and is compelled to desert the army, and at her instigation he takes up the
                        life, first of a smuggler, and then of a bandit. She is the controlling
                        spirit of a little band of outlaws, whose diabolical crimes are described in
                        a manner so natural that they cease to  appear
                        extraordinary. Navarro slays the husband of Carmen, a one-eyed miscreant,
                        and takes his place as her lawful lord. But she soon falls in love with a
                            picador, and although this passion is as ephemeral as
                        the rest, Navarro is seized with fury. He strives to persuade her to go with
                        him to some distant region where they can begin life anew. He will forgive
                        the past; he asks only her companionship and love. But she spurns him; he
                        may kill her if he likes, but she will not live with him. She scorns even to
                        flee or to defend herself. At his command she rides with him to a lonely
                        place, where he stabs her, while her eyes flash defiance. He buries her in
                        the wood and delivers himself to justice.
                    In spite of her crimes and infidelities, there is a touch of heroism and
                        magnanimity in this wild creature which commands our admiration, and
                        explains the passion she awakens in the heart of Navarro.
                    "Carmen" is a short story, meagre both in incidents and characters, but its
                        few touches are those of the master. It is a work of consummate art.
                
                
                
                    DAVID COPPERFIELD
                    CHARLES DICKENS
                    "DAVID COPPERFIELD" and "Henry Esmond" are perhaps the best illustrations
                        extant of the advantages of the autobiographical method in fiction, which,
                        whatever may be its drawbacks, is better fitted than any other to subjective
                        description. It is said that the true function of the painter is to
                        reproduce things on the canvas, not as they are, but as they appear to the
                        person observing them. In like manner it is often the function of the
                        novelist's art to describe the world, not as it is, but as it appears to
                        some particular person; and there is no better way to do this than by an
                        autobiography. The artistic truth of the picture will appear, when the
                        reader says to himself, "How often that thing looked just so to me!" Of
                        course the estimate of the truth of this sort of a picture will vary with
                        the personal temperament of the reader, but I think most young readers will
                        find an instant bond of sympathy between David Copperfield and
                        themselves.
                    At the time I first read it, as a college student, I think no work of fiction
                        had ever attracted me so greatly. There seemed to be much in it which
                        corresponded with my own feelings and experiences,  and I still think that those parts of the book that deal with
                        childhood, youth, and early manhood are very true to nature. David's
                        description of the home at Blunderstone where he was born, of the church, of
                        the fowls in the yard and the fears that they occasioned, of his joy in the
                        house that was made out of a boat on the sand, of his resentment at the
                        tyranny of his stepfather, of his school-boy fancies, of his hero-worship of
                        the brilliant Steerforth,— in short, his general way of looking at
                        the world is so exactly like that of the ordinary healthy boy under similar
                        circumstances that these parts of the book are, in the highest and best
                        sense of the word, very realistic.
                    But as a whole the work has no such convincing power over me to-day as it had
                        when I first read it. Some of the characters, indeed, like little Miss
                        Mowcher, Barkis, and Mr. Creakle, seem more like puppets and less like real
                        persons than they did. Many of them seem to carry about with them a sort of
                        trade-mark, to certify to their genuineness,— Heep's "humility,"
                        for instance, Murdstone's "firmness," or Littimer's "respectability"; or
                        perhaps the test of identity is a formula, like "thinking of the old 'un" of
                        Mrs. Gummidge, or "waiting for something to turn up" of Micawber. In many
                        cases the picture is a caricature rather than a real portrait, and yet it
                        has the advantage of the caricature, that it sets forth in bold relief the
                        leading feature and fixes itself forever in the memory.
                    
                    There is little to say about the story, for it is known to all. Practically
                        three or four stories are woven into one. There is the story of David
                        himself, a boy who, after a comfortable childhood with his young widowed
                        mother and her old house servant Peggotty, falls under the tyranny of a
                        stepfather and his sister, and is sent to be beaten and abused at Creakle's
                        school, and when his mother dies is put out to a miserable and hopeless
                        existence at the dismal counting-house of Murdstone and Grimby. He runs
                        away, and in absolute destitution betakes himself to the home of Betsey
                        Trotwood, an aunt whom he has never seen, but with whom he finds a refuge.
                        Then follows the description (one of the best chapters in the book) of his
                        school days at Canterbury; his devotion to Miss Shepherd; his romantic
                        adoration of Miss Larkins, who marries an elderly hop-grower; his disastrous
                        fight with a butcher. He is then articled to Mr. Spenlow, of Doctor's
                        Commons, to become a proctor, and falls in love with Dora, Spenlow's
                        daughter, an affectionate, foolish little creature, whom he marries. He wins
                        a reputation as an author, and after the death of his "child-wife," and a
                        period of travel, finally weds Agnes Wickfield, who has always loved him,
                        and who, ever since his school days at Canterbury, has been the guardian
                        spirit of his life.
                    Intertwined with this story is that of the family of Mr. Peggotty, the
                        brother of David's old nurse, who lives in the boat on the sand at Yarmouth,
                        with his nephew Ham, and Em'ly, his  adopted
                        child, a beautiful creature, who is betrayed by David's friend Steerforth,
                        with whom she elopes on the eve of her marriage to Ham, and who afterwards
                        abandons her. An affecting picture is given of the honest Mr. Peggotty
                        seeking his poor child through the world; of her final return, and of the
                        great storm and shipwreck, in which Steerforth goes down, and Ham loses his
                        life in a vain attempt at rescue.
                    Another strand in the cord of this remarkable story is that of Micawber and
                        his family, with whom Copperfield becomes a lodger during his gloomy days at
                        Murdstone and Grinby's,—a man who, after various misfortunes,
                        including poverty, jail, and a wretched life in which he is made the tool of
                        the hypocritical Uriah Heep, is finally sent to Australia on the same vessel
                        with Mr. Peggotty and Emily, and begins a career of ultimate prosperity.
                    But the story is interesting not so much on account of the plot as of the
                        people who are in it, and the human interest which runs through the
                        whole.
                    In addition to the naturalness of Copperfield's own feelings, there are other
                        characters that are very true to life. That of his eccentric aunt, Betsy
                        Trotwood, is perhaps a little overdrawn at first, in her interview with the
                        doctor on the occasion of David's birth, but afterwards her warmth of heart,
                        frankness, and the strong good sense which underlie her rude behavior and
                        eccentricities, the combination of strength and weakness  in her nature, call to my own mind at every
                        step one whom I have intimately known and greatly loved. There is something
                        immensely refreshing, for instance, in her outbreak at the slimy Uriah
                        Heep:
                    "'If you're an eel, sir, conduct yourself like one. If you're a man, control
                        your limbs, sir. Good God!' said my aunt, with great indignation, 'I'm not
                        going to be serpentined and corkscrewed out of my senses!'"
                    Her noble conduct in concealing what she believed to be the defalcation of
                        her old friend Mr. Wickfield is equally characteristic:
                    "'And at last he took the blame upon himself,' added my aunt, 'and wrote me a
                        mad letter, charging himself with robbery and wrong unheard of; upon which I
                        paid him a visit early one morning, called for a candle, burned the letter,
                        and told him if he ever could right me and himself to do it, and if he could
                        not, to keep his own counsel for his daughter's sake.'"
                    The "umble," pious, and vindictive scoundrel, Uriah Heep, has been a type of
                        whining hypocrisy. The description of him as Copperfield first saw him is
                        remarkable:
                    "A red-haired person, a youth of fifteen, as I take it now, but looking much
                        older; whose hair was cropped as close as the closest stubble, who had
                        hardly any eyebrows and no eyelashes, and eyes of a red brown, so
                        unsheltered and unshaded that I remember wondering how he went to sleep. He
                        was high-shouldered and bony,  dressed in
                        decent black, with a white wisp of a neckcloth buttoned up to the throat,
                        and had a long, lank, skeleton hand, which particularly attracted my
                        attention as he stood at the pony's head, rubbing his chin and looking up at
                        us in the chaise."
                    On the whole, perhaps Heep's character is rather a grotesque than a reality.
                        Everywhere he inspires us with unutterable aversion. He worms himself into
                        the secrets of Wickfield, his employer, takes advantage of his weakness for
                        drink, and finally gets possession of much of his property. Afterwards, in
                        the prison scene, he is equally true to his snaky nature, and becomes an
                        edifying and pious pattern of the products of prison reform.
                    The quiet, respectful, and respectable Littimer, Steerforth's serving-man,
                        who seemed to be always saying to the awestruck David, "You are young, sir;
                        you are very young," — and who afterwards became his master's tool
                        in the disgraceful intrigue with Em'ly, will find many a counterpart in
                        actual life. There are some of us who in our youth have felt similar awe in
                        the presence of such a domestic.
                    Perhaps the most charming chapters in the book are those which describe the
                        courting, the marriage, and the disastrous housekeeping of David and his
                        child-wife, Dora, in which the little dog Jip plays such a conspicuous part.
                        They are a pair of precious young noodles; yet the love-making, in spite of
                        its absurdity, is so absolutely natural, and the foolish Dora so utterly
                        affectionate,  up to the pathetic scene of her
                        death, that the incidents awaken a very strong sympathy.
                    Mr. Micawber, of course, is an exaggeration; but how many men have we known
                        who possessed some of his essential traits,—his stilted diction,
                        his sudden alternations of supreme joy and utter despair, his mania for
                        letter-writing, his visionary hopes and schemes in the midst of his
                        distresses? How perfect in its way is the final newspaper account of the
                        public dinner in Australia given in his honor!
                    Mr. Peggotty's search through the world for Little Em'ly seems to me now
                        greatly overstrained, though I did not think so when I first read it. There
                        is a very true touch in the description of the old Mrs. Gummidge, who had
                        always been querulous and complaining until great sorrow fell upon the
                        household, when she became at once helpful, considerate, and cheerful in
                        comforting the distress of others. We have all seen examples of this kind of
                        transformation.
                    Dickens has done mankind a service by portraying the dignity of simple things
                        and the delicacy and nobility of character that often lie beneath a rough
                        exterior, among those whom Lincoln used to call "the plain people," of whom
                        Lincoln was himself perhaps the most illustrious type. What could be nobler
                        and in its essential character more gentlemanly than the behavior of Mr.
                        Peggotty and Ham after the betrayal of Little Em'ly; what more delicate than
                        Peggotty's appreciation of Em'ly's feeling toward him?
                    
                    "'She would go to the world's furdest end if she could once see me again, and
                        she would fly to the world's furdest end to keep from seeing me. For tho'
                        she ain't no call to doubt my love — and doen't — and
                        doen't — but there's shame steps in and keeps betwixt us.'"
                    Dickens's style is often intensely vivid — for instance, in his
                        description of a London fog in "Bleak House"; of the burning Marseilles sun
                        in "Little Dorrit"; of the storm and shipwreck in "David Copperfield";
                        — all fine instances of word-painting. Yet the crudities are many
                        and glaring, there is very little finish, and sometimes the diction is
                        commonplace.
                    But there are occasional passages of extraordinary beauty, due possibly not
                        so much to the style as the sentiment and the things described. Witness the
                        following, where David describes his feelings when he had taken refuge with
                        his aunt in her cottage at Dover, after his escape from Murdstone and
                        Grinby's:
                    "The room was a pleasant one, at the top of the house, overlooking the sea,
                        on which the moon was shining brilliantly. After I had said my prayers, and
                        my candle had burnt out, I remember how I still sat looking at the moonlight
                        on the water, as if I could hope to read my fortunes in it, as in a bright
                        book; or to see my mother with her child, coming from Heaven along that
                        shining path, to look upon me as she had looked when I last saw her sweet
                        face. I remember how the solemn feeling with which at length I turned my
                        eyes away, yielded to the sensation of gratitude and rest with which the
                        sight of the  white-curtained bed —
                        and how much more the lying softly down upon it, nestling in the snow-white
                        sheets — inspired. I remember how I thought of all the solitary
                        places under the night sky where I had slept, and how I prayed that I never
                        might be houseless any more, and never might forget the houseless. I
                        remember how I seemed to float, then, down the melancholy glory of that
                        track upon the sea, away into the world of dreams."
                    "David Copperfield" may not be the supreme work of fiction which some of us
                        once fancied it, but it touches the heart very closely. It dignifies humble
                        life and common things, makes us better friends with the world, and awakens
                        those human traits which work for kindness and goodwill toward all
                        mankind.
                
                
                
                    THE SCARLET LETTER
                    NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE
                    MOST persons of culture, if asked who was the foremost American writer of
                        fiction would undoubtedly answer, "Nathaniel Hawthorne." Among his works
                        "The Scarlet Letter" is, I think, the most generally read and widely known.
                        This high estimate of Hawthorne is in most respects well deserved. His works
                        have a fine literary and poetic quality. The style is faultless; the
                        dramatic situations are admirably conceived; and the structure of the plot,
                        while simple, is extremely artistic. Hawthorne generally deals with the
                        darker phases of human life, with scenes of wickedness and crime. His
                        description of the emotions awakened by criminal acts is extremely powerful.
                        And yet it seems to me, in reading his pages, that Hawthorne had little
                        knowledge of what were the actual motives and feelings of the guilty, and
                        that his account of the development of passions and character came rather
                        from reflection and abstract reasoning than from acute observation.
                    The book begins dramatically rather than historically — that is to
                        say, in the very middle of the impressive story which it relates. Hester
                        Prynne, the heroine, had married old Roger 
                        Chillingworth, a union unnatural and without affection, which was followed
                        on her part, during her husband's long and unexplained absence, by a guilty
                        passion for Arthur Dimmesdale, the eloquent clergyman of a Puritan New
                        England town. All the incidents connected with the growth and development of
                        this passion, and with the birth of the child which followed it, are omitted
                        from the narrative, which opens with a scene at the door of the prison, from
                        which Hester comes forth to suffer the punishment prescribed for her
                        crime,—to stand for a certain time in the scaffold by the pillory,
                        and to wear for the rest of her life the scarlet letter A upon her breast.
                        We have nothing to tell us how the temptation began, nor how it grew, nor
                        the terrible anxieties which must have preceded the discovery of her
                        wrongdoing. Possibly these things are the more impressive because left
                        wholly to the imagination.
                    But among the multitude that gaze upon the unfortunate woman in the hours of
                        her public exposure is a face that she knows only too well. Old Roger
                        Chillingworth, who has been so long absent, and supposed even to be dead,
                        appears and recognizes her. He visits her afterwards in prison, and exacts
                        from her an oath that his identity shall remain unknown. The terrible
                        punishment of the scarlet letter to a sensitive mind is powerfully
                        portrayed; her shame at every new face that gazes upon it, and the
                        consciousness of another sense, giving her a sympathetic knowledge of hidden
                        sin in other hearts, a strange companionship 
                        in crime, upon which Hawthorne lays much stress in many of his works. Even
                        little Pearl, her child, gives her no comfort, for the child's character is
                        wayward, elusive, elf-like. She is a strange creature, whose conversation
                        brings to her mother constant reminders of her guilt. Hester, with great
                        constancy, refuses to disclose the name of the child's father, and
                        Dimmesdale, the honored pastor of the community, is tortured by a remorse
                        which constantly grows upon him. Old Chillingworth suspects him, becomes his
                        physician, lives with him under the same roof, discovers a scarlet letter
                        concealed upon his breast, and enjoys for years the exquisite revenge of
                        digging into the hidden places of a sensitive human soul and gloating over
                        the agonies thus unconsciously revealed to a bitter enemy. An account is
                        given of Dimmesdale's self-imposed penances, and of the concealed scourge
                        for his own chastisement. One night he resolves to go forth and stand on the
                        same scaffold where Hester has undergone her punishment. The bitterness of
                        his emotions is finely drawn; the wild shriek which barely fails to rouse
                        the citizens of the town; the passing of Hester on her way from her
                        ministrations at a death-bed; the standing together of the three, father,
                        mother, and child, upon the scaffold; the letter A which appears in the sky;
                        Pearl's keen questions; and the face of old Chillingworth, who has come
                        forth to look on them.
                    Hester at last resolves to disclose to Dimmesdale the identity of his evil
                        companion. Her  character has grown stronger
                        through openly bearing the burden of her guilt, while the poor clergyman's
                        soul has become shattered through his constant hypocrisy. She meets him in
                        the forest, and in a scene of great natural tenderness and beauty tells him
                        that Chillingworth is her husband. He reproaches her bitterly for her long
                        concealment, then forgives her. She urges him to flee, as his only hope.
                    "'Exchange this false life of thine for a true one. Be, if thy spirit summon
                        thee to such a mission, the teacher and apostle of the red men.
                        Or,—as is more thy nature,—be a scholar and a sage among
                        the wisest and the most renowned of the cultivated world. Preach! Write!
                        Act! Do anything, save to lie down and die! Give up this name of Arthur
                        Dimmesdale, and make thyself another, and a high one, such as thou canst
                        wear without fear or shame. Why shouldst thou tarry so much as one other day
                        in the torments that have so gnawed into thy life!— that have made
                        thee feeble to will and to do! — that will leave thee powerless
                        even to repent; Up, and away!'
                    "'O Hester!' cried Arthur Dimmesdale, in whose eyes a fitful light, kindled
                        by her enthusiasm, flashed up and died away, 'thou tellest of running a race
                        to a man whose knees are tottering beneath him! I must die here! There is
                        not the strength or courage left me to venture into the wide, strange,
                        difficult world, alone!'
                    "It was the last expression of the despondency of a broken spirit. He lacked
                        energy to grasp the better fortune that seemed within his reach.
                    "He repeated the word.
                    "'Alone, Hester!'
                    
                    "'Thou shalt not go alone!' answered she, in a deep whisper.
                    "Then, all was spoken!"
                    In connection with their proposed departure to Europe, the minister inquired
                        of Hester the time at which the vessel would depart, and learned that it
                        would probably be on the fourth day thereafter. "That is most fortunate!"
                        the clergyman then said to himself. The reason why he considered it
                        fortunate revealed a very subtle phase of human nature.
                    "It was because, on the third day from the present, he was to preach the
                        Election Sermon; and as such an occasion formed an honorable epoch in the
                        life of a New England clergyman, he could not have chanced upon a more
                        suitable mode and time of terminating his professional career. 'At least,
                        they shall say of me,' thought this exemplary man, 'that I leave no public
                        duty unperformed, nor ill performed.'"
                    And of this strange feeling the author remarks:
                    "No man, for any considerable period, can wear one face to himself, and
                        another to the multitude, without finally getting bewildered as to which may
                        be the true one."
                    Having resolved upon flight, however, and in the joy of his anticipated
                        release from a dreadful life, a curious change comes over Mr. Dimmesdale, a
                        revolution in his sphere of thought and feeling.
                    
                    "At every step he was incited to do some strange, wild, wicked thing or
                        other, with a sense that it would be at once involuntary and intentional; in
                        spite of himself, yet growing out of a profounder self than that which
                        opposed the impulse."
                    When he met one of his old deacons, it was only by the most careful
                        self-control that he could refrain from certain blasphemous suggestions
                        respecting the communion supper. When he met a pious and exemplary old dame,
                        the eldest of his flock, whom he had often refreshed with warm, fragrant
                        Gospel truths, he could now recall no text of Scripture, nor aught else,
                        except a brief, pithy, and, as it then appeared to him, unanswerable
                        argument against the immortality of the human soul. He was tempted to make
                        certain evil suggestions to one of the young women of his flock, and to
                        teach some very wicked words to a knot of little Puritan children. He had
                        come back from the forest another man.
                    But when the hour of departure approaches, and amid the preparations for the
                        great Election Sermon, Hester hears that Roger Chillingworth has learned of
                        their intended flight and taken passage by the same ship!
                    The final climax is reached when Dimmesdale, after preaching his great
                        sermon, which arouses the people to the highest pitch of enthusiasm, comes
                        forth from the church, and recognizes Hester and Pearl. At his earnest
                        entreaty she supports him to the scaffold, where he stands at her  side, and, against the protestations of old
                        Chillingworth, confesses his guilt, shows the scarlet letter upon his own
                        breast, and expires. Chillingworth does not long survive him. Hester goes
                        with Pearl across the sea, but after some years returns alone, again resumes
                        the scarlet letter, and takes up her old life in her little cottage near the
                        town.
                    The moral of the book, from the poor minister's miserable experience, is put
                        into this sentence: "Be true, be true, be true; show freely to the world, if
                        not your worst, yet some trait whereby the worst may be inferred." Hester's
                        strength in bearing her sorrow is contrasted powerfully with the growing
                        weakness and degeneracy of Dimmesdale, and with the transformation of
                        Chillingworth into a devil, through constant gratification of his revenge.
                        The strange conduct of Pearl, who, with her child's instinct, resents the
                        conduct of the minister who will recognize her mother and herself only in
                        secret, adds to the effect; yet it can not be said that Pearl is in the
                        least a natural child. She seems almost as mature when she first asks her
                        mother who it was that sent her into the world, and denies that she has a
                        Heavenly Father, as she does in the last pages of the book. The appearance
                        of Mistress Hibbins, the old witch, who was afterwards executed, throws a
                        gleam of the supernatural across the pages.
                    It is a weird story, the product of a luxuriant though somewhat morbid
                        imagination; but the novelist, on the other hand, lacks that acute
                        perception,  that knowledge of trifling
                        circumstances, such as would have appeared in the pages of Balzac or Tolstoi
                        — those suggestive details which unconsciously set forth men's
                        motives, feelings, and character better than any philosophical
                        reflections.
                
                
                
                    HENRY ESMOND
                    WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY
                    THE equestrian painting by Velasquez of Prince Balthasar Charles, the
                        original of which is in the Madrid Museum, is now well known throughout the
                        world by means of photographs and other reproductions. It represents a very
                        small boy on a very huge horse, which is in the act of rearing. The anatomy
                        of the animal is impossible, and it is safe to say no boy as small as the
                        Prince ever assumed under like circumstances the attitude attributed to him;
                        and yet, in spite of its defects, this picture is a very remarkable and a
                        very beautiful painting. We know in an instant that it is the work of a
                        master. Indeed it is only the work of a master which could contain such
                        blemishes and still be great. Similar flaws sometimes deface the greatest
                        works of literature—for instance, the putting out of Gloucester's
                        eyes in "Lear," or the Walpurgis Night's Dream in the first part of "Faust."
                        And so it is with "Henry Esmond." It is marred by one or two dreadful
                        deformities; and yet, in spite of them, it is perhaps the most charming
                        novel ever written.
                    The book opens with one of the most exquisite scenes in all literature, where
                        young Esmond, a  lad twelve years of age, who
                        is supposed to be the illegitimate son of Thomas, Viscount Castlewood, and
                        who has led a rather hard life as a page of the old viscountess, and been
                        left alone in the great house after his father's death, is now found in the
                        yellow gallery by Lady Castlewood, the young and beautiful wife of the new
                        viscount, when she comes with her husband to take possession of the
                        property. The scene is thus described:
                    "She stretched out her hand — indeed, when was it that that hand did
                        not stretch out to do an act of kindness, or to protect grief and
                        ill-fortune? 'And this is our kinsman,' she said; 'and what is your name,
                        kinsman?'
                    "'My name is Henry Esmond,' said the lad, looking up at her in a sort of
                        delight and wonder, for she had come upon him as a Dea
                            certe, and appeared the most charming object he had ever looked on.
                        Her golden hair was shining in the gold of the sun; her complexion was of a
                        dazzling bloom; her lips smiling, and her eyes beaming with a kindness which
                        made Harry Esmond's heart beat with surprise.
                    "'His name is Henry Esmond, sure enough, my lady,' said Mrs. Worksop, the
                        housekeeper (an old tyrant whom Henry Esmond plagued more than he hated),
                        and the old gentlewoman looked significantly toward the late lord's picture;
                        as it now is, in the family, noble and severe-looking, with his hand on his
                        sword and his order on his cloak, which he had from the Emperor during the
                        war on the Danube against the Turk.
                    "Seeing the great and undeniable likeness between this portrait and the lad,
                        the new viscountess, who had still hold of the boy's hand as she looked at
                        the picture, blushed  and dropped the hand
                        quickly, and walked down the gallery, followed by Mrs. Worksop.
                    "When the lady came back, Harry Esmond stood exactly in the same spot and
                        with his hand as it had fallen when he dropped it on his black coat.
                    "Her heart melted, I suppose (indeed she hath since owned as much) at the
                        notion that she should do anything unkind to any mortal, great or small; for
                        when she returned, she had sent away the housekeeper upon an errand by the
                        door at the further end of the gallery; and, coming back to the lad, with a
                        look of infinite pity and tenderness in her eyes, she took his hand again,
                        placing her other fair hand on his head, and saying some words to him, which
                        were so kind, and said in a voice so sweet, that the boy, who had never
                        looked upon so much beauty before, felt as if the touch of a superior being
                        or angel smote him down to the ground, and kissed the fair protecting hand,
                        as he knelt on one knee. To the very last hour of his life, Esmond
                        remembered the lady as she then spoke and looked — the rings on her
                        fair hands, the very scent of her robe, the beam of her eyes lighting up
                        with surprise and kindness, her lips blooming in a smile, the sun making a
                        golden halo round her hair."
                    The story now digresses, returning to Esmond's early life, the vague
                        recollections of his childhood abroad, his coming to Castlewood, his
                        education by Father Holt, a Jesuit priest, the plots and intrigues of the
                        family on behalf of King James, the seizure of the great house by King
                        William's troops, the arrest of the viscountess in her bed, and the death of
                        the viscount at the battle of the Boyne.
                    The young page was warmly welcomed by the  new
                        viscount, as well as by Lady Castlewood, and he became the instructor of
                        their children. There are exquisite descriptions of their domestic life in
                        the earlier pages of the book.
                    "There seemed, as the boy thought, in every look or gesture of this fair
                        creature, an angelical softness and bright pity — in motion or
                        repose she seemed gracious alike; the tone of her voice, though she uttered
                        words ever so trivial, gave him a pleasure that amounted almost to anguish.
                        It can not be called love that a lad of twelve years of age, little more
                        than menial, felt for an exalted lady, his mistress; but it was worship. To
                        catch her glance, to divine her errand, and run on it before she had spoken
                        it; to watch, follow, adore her, became the business of his life. Meanwhile,
                        as is the way often, his idol had idols of her own, and never thought of or
                        suspected the admiration of her little pigmy adorer.
                    "My lady had on her side her three idols; first and foremost, Jove and
                        supreme ruler, was her lord, Harry's patron, the good Viscount of
                        Castlewood. All wishes of his were laws with her. If he had a headache, she
                        was ill. If he frowned, she trembled. If he joked, she smiled, and was
                        charmed. If he went a-hunting, she was always at the window to see him ride
                        away, her little son crowing on her arm, or on the watch till his return.
                        She made dishes for his dinner; spiced his wine for him; made the toast for
                        his tankard at breakfast; hushed the house when he slept in his chair, and
                        watched for a look when he woke. If my lord was not a little proud of his
                        beauty, my lady adored it. She clung to his arms as he paced the terrace,
                        her two fair little hands clasped round his great one; her eyes were never
                        tired of looking in his face and wondering at his perfection."
                    
                    But it was not long until my lord began to grow weary of the bonds in which
                        his lady held him and at the jealousy which went hand and hand with her
                        affection.
                    "Then perhaps, the pair reached that other stage, which is not uncommon in
                        married life, when the woman perceives that the god of the honeymoon is a
                        god no more; only a mortal like the rest of us; and so she looks into her
                        heart, and lo! vacua sedes et inania arcana!"
                    
                    One unhappy day Esmond brings the smallpox to Castlewood from an ale-house in
                        the village, which he has visited, and where he has met Nancy Sievewright,
                        the blacksmith's pretty daughter. Lady Castlewood, on hearing this, breaks
                        out into a strange fit of rage and jealousy; but when Esmond is taken ill
                        she nurses him tenderly, contracting the disease herself, while the viscount
                        with his little daughter Beatrix flees from the contagion. He returns to
                        find his wife's beauty marred a little for a time, whereupon his love for
                        her grows weak and she betakes herself to the affection of her children.
                        With a little legacy that comes into her possession, she sends Esmond to the
                        University, whence he returns on vacation to find a skeleton in the
                        household. His kind mistress is shedding tears in secret, while her husband
                        drinks heavily, neglects her for an actress in a neighboring town, and
                        brings home Lord Mohun, a notorious rake, with whom he spends his nights at
                        play, and squanders his fortune. At last Mohun is suspected of designs
                        against my lady, and in a drive  with this
                        unscrupulous man Esmond warns him to leave Castlewood. An accident occurs;
                        Mohun is thrown out and injured. The viscount tells his wife that "Harry is
                        killed" (Harry being the name both of Esmond and Mohun). She screams, and
                        falls unconscious. A duel follows, and Lord Castlewood is slain by Mohun's
                        sword, but before his death confesses that he has learned from Father Holt
                        that Esmond is the legitimate son of his predecessor, and the lawful heir to
                        Castlewood. Esmond burns the confession and resolves not to profit by a
                        claim which will bring sorrow upon his kind mistress and her children. He is
                        sent to prison for participating in the duel, from which he had endeavored
                        to dissuade his patron and afterwards to defend him. Here Lady Castlewood
                        visits him. She brings no comfort, however, but upbraids him in her wild
                        grief:
                    "'I lost him through you — I lost him, the husband of my youth, I
                        say. I worshiped him — you know I worshiped him — and he
                        was changed to me. He was no more my Francis of old — my dear, dear
                        soldier! He loved me before he saw you, and I loved him! Oh, God is my
                        witness, how I loved him! Why did he not send you from among us? 'Twas only
                        his kindness, that could refuse me nothing then. And, young as you were
                        — yes, and weak and alone — there was evil, I knew there
                        was evil in keeping you. I read it in your face and eyes. I saw that they
                        boded harm to us—and it came, I knew it would. Why did you not die
                        when you had the smallpox, and I came myself and watched you, and you didn't
                        know me in your delirium — and  you
                        called out for me, though I was there at your side. All that has happened
                        since was a just judgment on my wicked heart — my wicked, jealous
                        heart. Oh, I am punished, awfully punished! My husband lies in his blood
                        — murdered for defending me, my kind, kind, generous lord
                        — and you were by, and you let him die, Henry!'"
                    He is crushed by her injustice, but does not waver in his devotion. After his
                        imprisonment is over he procures an ensign's commission and participates in
                        the destruction of the French fleet in Vigo Bay. On his return he hears that
                        his mistress is about to marry the chaplain of Castle-wood, and he hastens
                        to prevent the match. The rumor is unfounded, but it furnishes the
                        opportunity for reconciliation. They meet in Winchester Cathedral after the
                        service:
                    "She gave him her hand — her little fair hand; there was only her
                        marriage ring on it. The quarrel was all over. The year of grief and
                        estrangement was passed. They never had been separated. His mistress had
                        never been out of his head all that time. No, not once. No, not in the
                        prison, nor in the camp, nor on shore before the enemy, nor at sea under the
                        stars of solemn midnight, nor as he watched the glorious rising of the dawn;
                        not even at the table where he sat carousing with friends, or at the theater
                        yonder, where he tried to fancy that other eyes were brighter than hers.
                        Brighter eyes there might be, and faces more beautiful, but none so dear
                        — no voice so sweet as that of his beloved mistress, who had been
                        sister, mother, goddess to him during his youth — goddess now no
                        more, for he knew of her weaknesses,  and by
                        thought, by suffering, and that experience it brings, was older now than
                        she; but more fondly cherished as woman perhaps than ever she had been
                        adored as divinity. What is it? Where lies it? the secret which makes one
                        little hand the dearest of all? Who ever can unriddle that mystery?"
                    And then when Esmond gently reproaches her that she had never told him of her
                        sorrow for her cruel words, and that the knowledge would have spared him
                        many a bitter night:
                    "'I know it, I know it,' she answered, in a tone of such sweet humility as
                        made Esmond repent that he should ever have dared to reproach her. "I know
                        how wicked my heart has been; and I have suffered too, my dear. I confessed
                        to Mr. Atterbury — I must not tell any more. He — I said I
                        would not write to you or go to you; and it was better, even, that, having
                        parted, we should part. But I knew you would come back — I own
                        that. That is no one's fault. And to-day, Henry, in the anthem, when they
                        sang it, "When the Lord turned the captivity of Zion, we were like them that
                        dream," I thought, yes, like them that dream — them that dream. And
                        then it went, "They that sow in tears shall reap in joy; and he that goeth
                        forth and weepeth shall doubtless come home again with rejoicing, bringing
                        his sheaves with him;" I looked up from the book, and saw you. I was not
                        surprised when I saw you. I knew you would come, my dear, and saw the gold
                        sunshine round your head.'"
                    "'If — if 'tis so, dear lady,' Mr. Esmond said, 'why should I ever
                        leave you? If God hath given me this  great
                        boon — and near or far from me, as I know now, the heart of my
                        dearest mistress follows me — let me have that blessing near me,
                        nor ever part with it till death separate us. Come away — leave
                        this Europe, this place which has so many sad recollections for you. Begin a
                        new life in a new world. My good lord often talked of visiting that land in
                        Virginia which King Charles gave us — gave his ancestor. Frank will
                        give that. No man there will ask if there is a blot on my name, or inquire
                        in the woods what my title is.'
                    "'And my children — and my duty — and my good father,
                        Henry?' she broke out. 'He has none but me now; for soon my sister will
                        leave him, and the old man will be alone. He has conformed since the new
                        Queen's reign; and there in Winchester, where they love him, they have found
                        a church for him. When the children leave me I will stay with him. I cannot
                        follow them into the great world, where their way lies — it scares
                        me. They will come and visit me; and you will, sometimes, Henry —
                        yes, sometimes, as now, in the Holy Advent season, when I have seen and
                        blessed you once more.'
                    "'I would leave all to follow you,' said Mr. Esmond; 'and can you not be as
                        generous for me, dear Lady?'
                    "'Hush, boy!' she said, and it was with a mother's sweet, plaintive tone and
                        look that she spoke. 'The world is beginning for you. For me, I have been so
                        weak and sinful that I must leave it, and pray out an expiation, dear Henry.
                        Had we houses of religion as there were once, and many divines of our church
                        would have them again, I often think I would retire to one and pass my life
                        in penance. But I would love you still — yes, there is no sin in
                        such a love as mine now; and my dear lord in heaven may see my heart; and
                        knows the tears that have washed my sin away — and now —
                             now my duty is here, by my children while
                        they need me, and by my poor old father, and —'
                    "'And not by me?' Henry said.
                    "'Hush!' she said again, and raised her hand to his lip. 'I have been your
                        nurse. You could not see me, Henry, when you were in the smallpox, and I
                        came and sat by you. Ah, I prayed that I might die, but it would have been
                        in sin, Henry. Oh, it is horrid to look back to that time. It is over now
                        and past, and it has been forgiven me. When you need me again I will come
                        ever so far. When your heart is wounded then come to me, my dear. Be silent!
                        Let me say all. You never loved me, dear Henry — no, you do not
                        now, and I thank Heaven for it. I used to watch you, and knew by a thousand
                        signs that it was so. Do you remember how glad you were to go away to
                        College? 'Twas I sent you. I told my papa that, and Mr. Atterbury too, when
                        I spoke to him in London. And they both gave me absolution — both
                        — and they are godly men, having authority to bind and to loose.
                        And they forgave me, as my dear lord forgave me before he went to
                        heaven.'
                    "'I think the angels are not all in heaven,' Mr. Esmond said. And as a
                        brother folds a sister to his heart; and as a mother cleaves to her son's
                        breast — so for a few moments Esmond's beloved mistress came to him
                        and blessed him."
                    After this wonderful chapter there comes another of almost equal beauty, if
                        it stood alone, but the two together make a strange discord. For when they
                        reach Walcote, which is now the family home, Beatrix, the daughter of Lady
                        Castlewood, comes down the stairs to greet him.
                    "Esmond had left a child and found a woman, grown  beyond the common height, and arrived at such a dazzling
                        completeness of beauty that his eyes might well show surprise and delight at
                        beholding her. In hers there was a brightness so lustrous and melting that I
                        have seen a whole assembly follow her as if by an attraction irresistible;
                        and that night the great Duke was at the playhouse after Ramillies, every
                        soul turned and looked (she chanced to enter at the opposite side of the
                        theater at the same moment) at her, and not at him. She was a brown beauty
                        — that is, her eyes, hair, and eyebrows and eyelashes were dark;
                        her hair curling with rich undulations, and waving over her shoulders. But
                        her complexion was as dazzling white as snow in sunshine; except her cheeks,
                        which were a bright red, and her lips, which were of a still deeper crimson.
                        Her mouth and chin, they said, were too large and full, and so they might be
                        for a goddess in marble, but not for a woman whose eyes were fire, whose
                        look was love, whose voice was the sweetest low song, whose shape was
                        perfect symmetry, health, decision, activity, whose foot, as it planted
                        itself on the ground, was firm but flexible, and whose motion, whether rapid
                        or slow, was always perfect grace — agile as a nymph, lofty as a
                        queen — now melting, now imperious, now sarcastic — there
                        was no single movement of hers but was beautiful. As he thinks of her, he
                        who writes feels young again, and remembers a paragon."
                    Esmond falls instantly in love with the dazzling beauty, and the rest of the
                        book, down to nearly the end of the last chapter, has for its theme his
                        fruitless devotion to this brilliant, volatile, imperious, and capricious
                        girl, and her mother's sympathy with him in his vain suit!
                    He again betakes himself to the army to win  a
                        rank and a name so as to lay them at her feet. He takes part in the great
                        campaigns of Marl-borough in Flanders — at Donauworth, Blenheim,
                        Ramillies, Oudenarde, Wynendael, Malplaquet. He is wounded at Blenheim, and
                        again (near the close of the war) at Mons, and he is promoted until he
                        reaches the rank of colonel. He returns to England from time to time, meets
                        the brilliant girl (now maid of honor to the Queen) to whom his life is
                        devoted, only to have his heart torn by her coldness and her caprices. Once
                        for a moment she relents, but the mood passes and she pursues her schemes of
                        ambition. First she is betrothed to Lord Ashburnham, then to the Duke of
                        Hamilton, and when that nobleman falls in a duel with Lord Mohun, it is
                        Esmond who has to bring her the news of this crushing blow to her
                        ambition.
                    And now he will attempt one brilliant feat to win her. Queen Anne is near her
                        end. Esmond will bring back to England the Pretender, the exiled King (to
                        whose cause the family are deeply devoted) to take the vacant throne. Here
                        follow the details of this scheme, and a description of the king's dissolute
                        and fickle character. He is brought to the house of Lady Castlewood, where
                        he shows too plainly his fancy for Beatrix, who on her part is far too
                        compliant. She is sent away to Castlewood, and becomes furious at the
                        suspicions of her family. When the plot of the king's friends is ripe the
                        Pretender can not be found. A letter from Beatrix informing  him that she is a prisoner is intercepted,
                        and Esmond and her brother Frank ride all night to Castlewood, where they
                        find the young king, and although they are in time to save her honor, yet
                        this crowning infidelity has crushed out the last spark of Esmond's love. On
                        their return to London the Queen is dead and George is proclaimed King.
                    Let the concluding scenes of the story be told in Esmond's own words:
                    "Ever after that day at Castlewood, when we rescued her, she persisted in
                        holding all her family as her enemies, and left us, and escaped to France,
                        to what a fate I disdain to tell. Nor was her son's house a home for my dear
                        mistress; my poor Frank was weak, as perhaps all our race hath been, and led
                        by women. . . . 'Twas after a scene of ignoble quarrel on the part of
                        Frank's wife and mother (for the poor lad had been made to marry the whole
                        of that German family with whom he had connected himself) that I found my
                        mistress one day in tears, and then besought her to confide herself to the
                        care and devotion of one who by God's help would never forsake her. And then
                        the tender matron, as beautiful in her autumn, and as pure as virgins in
                        their spring, with blushes of love and eyes of meek surrender yielded to my
                        respectful importunity, and consented to share my home."
                    If Esmond had shot himself, or turned monk, or spent his last days alone, or
                        lived with Lady Castlewood as her son, the artistic harmony of the book
                        would have been preserved, but to marry one who had been in the place of a
                        mother to him  all these years —
                        Faugh! not even the genius of Thackeray can make such a match attractive.
                        This dreadful anticlimax mars what would otherwise be beyond all question
                        (and what may be still in spite of it) the most beautiful work of fiction
                        ever written.
                    Thackeray knows better than any other novelist, except perhaps Cervantes, how
                        to describe a gentleman. That peculiar aggregation of qualities so
                        unmistakable, yet so elusive of definition, which go to make up this
                        character, appear more clearly in his novels than anywhere else in English
                        fiction. Henry Esmond, Colonel Newcome and Major Dobbin are almost as
                        perfect examples of this as the Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance himself.
                        And Thackeray (in another work) thus speaks to us of gentlemen:
                    "Perhaps these are rarer personages than some of us think for. Which of us
                        can point out many such in his circle, men whose aims are generous, whose
                        truth is constant, and not only constant in its kind but elevated in its
                        degree; whose want of meanness makes them simple; who can look the world
                        honestly in the face with an equal manly sympathy for the great and small?
                        We all know a hundred whose coats are very well made, and a score who have
                        excellent manners, and one or two happy beings who are what they call in the
                        inner circles, and have shot into the very centre and bull's eye of the
                        fashion; but of gentlemen how many? Let us take a little scrap of paper and
                        each make out his list."
                    The diction of Thackeray is exquisite beyond 
                        all comparison with that of any other author. There are some repetitions,
                        and many marks of carelessness, but Thackeray does not suffer because he is
                        careless, he seems rather to gain by it. Henry Esmond is full of
                        digressions; for example, the historical accounts of the campaigns in
                        Flanders have little to do with the main purpose of the story. But where
                        else can we find history written with such a charm? You seem to be in the
                        midst of the events it chronicles, beholding its great scenes and listening
                        to contemporary gossip and criticism. Where else is any such description of
                        a hero like that of Marlborough:
                    "Our chief, whom England and all Europe, saving only the Frenchmen, worshiped
                        almost, had this of the godlike in him, that he was impassible before
                        victory, before danger, before defeat. Before the greatest obstacle or the
                        most trivial ceremony; before a hundred thousand men drawn in battalia, or a
                        peasant slaughtered at the door of his burning hovel; before a carouse of
                        drunken German lords, or a monarch's court, a cottage-table, where his plans
                        were laid, or an enemy's battery, vomiting flame and death, and strewing
                        corpses round about him — he was always cold, calm, resolute, like
                        fate. He performed a treason or a court-bow, he told a falsehood as black as
                        Styx, as easily as he paid a compliment or spoke about the weather. He took
                        a mistress and left her, he betrayed his benefactor and supported him, or
                        would have murdered him, with the same calmness always, and having no more
                        remorse than Clotho when she weaves the thread, or Lachesis when she cuts
                        it. . . .
                    "His qualities were pretty well known in the army,  where there were parties of all politics, and of plenty of
                        shrewdness and wit; but there existed such a perfect confidence in him, as
                        the first captain in the world, and such a faith and admiration in his
                        prodigious genius and fortune, that the very men whom he notoriously cheated
                        of their pay, the chiefs whom he used and injured (for he used all men,
                        great and small, that came near him, as his instruments alike), and took
                        something of theirs, either some quality or some property — the
                        blood of a soldier it might be, or a jeweled hat, or a hundred thousand
                        crowns from a king, or a portion out of a starving sentinel's three
                        farthings; or (when he was young) a kiss from a woman and the gold chain off
                        her neck, taking all he could from woman or man, and having, as I said, this
                        of the god-like in him, that he could see a hero perish or a sparrow fall
                        with the same amount of sympathy for either. Not that he had no tears; he
                        could always order up this reserve at the proper moment to battle; he could
                        draw upon tears or smiles alike, and whenever need was for using this cheap
                        coin. He would cringe to a shoeblack, as he would flatter a minister or a
                        monarch; be haughty, be humble, threaten, repent, weep, grasp your hand, or
                        stab you, whenever he saw occasion — but yet those of the army who
                        knew him best, and had suffered most from him, admired him most of all; and
                        as he rode along the lines of battle, or galloped up in the nick of time to
                        a battalion reeling from before the enemy's charge or shot, the fainting men
                        and officers got new courage as they saw the splendid calm of his face and
                        felt that his will made them irresistible."
                    What a description of the destruction of the French army after Ramillies:
                    "At first it was a retreat orderly enough; but presently  the retreat became a rout, and a frightful slaughter of the
                        French ensued on this panic; so that an army of sixty thousand men was
                        utterly crushed and destroyed in the course of a couple of hours. It was as
                        if a hurricane had seized a compact numerous fleet, flung it all to the
                        winds, shattered, sunk, and annihilated it: Afflavit Deus et
                            dissipati sunt."
                    The author is not so successful in the introduction of his literary
                        characters, one of whom, Joseph Addison, not only has no relation to the
                        story, but adds little to the merit of the work.
                    A peculiarity of Thackeray is the subtle manner in which the motives and
                        passions of his various personages sometimes reveal themselves. For
                        instance, Lady Castlewood's intense love for Esmond in the early part of the
                        book is altogether a matter of inference from her strange conduct, and might
                        very easily be overlooked or misunderstood by persons who lack insight and
                        keen perception. Indeed, in some places the indications of the motive as
                        drawn from the words and actions of his heroines are so delicate and
                        shadowy, that we can not always quite tell what the author would have us
                        infer, or perhaps we even come to the conclusion that there is no accounting
                        for a woman. And yet, even when we are thus at fault, how entirely natural
                        it all seems!
                    Thackeray never wanders into unknown territory. He writes about the people he
                        knows and describes the things with which he is in close contact. In the
                        development of the story there is a blending of experience and imagination,
                        which mutually  aid each other in the creation
                        of characters that are marvelously ideal and true to nature at the same
                        time.
                    Dickens's men and women are frequently types. You can predict with great
                        confidence what each will do under given circumstances. Thackeray's
                        characters are more uncertain and elusive. But is not this the way of the
                        world? Those of us who have been mistaken in the conduct of our friends or
                        enemies (and who has not?) must acknowledge the essential truthfulness of
                        many a portrait which at first blush appears inconsistent.
                    And in this novel, in which Colonel Esmond tells his own story, the author
                        shows his surpassing power in making us see his principal characters,
                        especially his dear mistress and her daughter, not so much as they really
                        were, but as they appeared to the man who loved them. Thackeray gives to our
                        understanding very good reason to doubt whether Lady Castlewood had all the
                        perfections he attributes to her, but he compels our hearts to join in
                        Esmond's worship, and to feel even toward the wayward Beatrix a share of the
                        passion of her lover.
                
                
                
                    UNCLE TOM'S CABIN
                    HARRIET BEECHER STOWE
                    "UNCLE TOMS'S CABIN" is a novel which was written for a purpose. It was an
                        attack upon the system of negro slavery and was intended to awaken the
                        people of the North to a realization of the horrors and essential wickedness
                        of that institution. So well did it accomplish its purpose that it became an
                        important feature of the history of the abolition movement, which led to the
                        organization of the Republican party and finally to the overthrow of
                        slavery. No other American novel had such a circulation nor left so deep an
                        impression upon its time. But it has long outlived its moral purpose, and
                        the persistent demand both for the book and for the play which is taken from
                        it shows that "Uncle Tom's Cabin" has a vitality of its own, which entitles
                        it to a high rank among works of fiction. What are the elements of its
                        excellence ?
                    It is not in all respects a finished production. The style is uneven and
                        marred by occasional crudities and weaknesses. The author evidently lacks a
                        good deal in the matter of literary education. Words are used unnecessarily
                        which are colloquial, very rare, or perhaps not found in the dictionary at
                        all. Thus: "The rocking chair of the good Quakeress Rachel Halliday kept up
                        a  subdued creechy-crawchy"; Rachel collects
                        "needments" for Eliza out of her household stores; St. Clare speaks of the
                        "cheatery" of his negroes, and other phrases are used which are equally
                        obsolete or unconventional. Some of the sentences are awkward in the
                        extreme, and there are involved paragraphs, with inconsistent similes and
                        metaphors.
                    Besides this, there is a certain femininity pervading the book, which appears
                        in minute descriptions of household duties and utensils, and in a certain
                        religious flavor of the Sunday-school variety, which obtrudes itself in
                        inappropriate places.
                    But although the mere literary quality of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is not high,
                        the work is characterized by great dramatic power, and permeated with a
                        feeling so intense that the expression of it rises in many places into
                        eloquence. The great feature of this somber and absorbing novel is its
                        convincing character. The truth of the dreadful facts which it recounts are
                        shown, not merely by contemporary records, but the events are described in
                        such a way as to bring with them the consciousness that they must have
                        occurred. This overpowering impression of reality and the tragic pathos of
                        the tale itself contain the secret of its power.
                    The main plot of the novel flows on in a very natural manner. Uncle Tom, a
                        faithful, conscientious negro, is the property of a Kentucky master who is
                        compelled by necessity to tear him away from his family and sell him "down
                        the  river." First he becomes the property of
                        St. Clare, an excellent man, upon whose death he is purchased by one Legree,
                        an incarnate fiend, by whom he is whipped to death for refusing to become
                        the instrument of his master's cruelty. Other incidents, like the escape of
                        Eliza and her husband, who finally obtain their liberty in Canada, are
                        subsidiary to the main design.
                    Many of the characters are so natural that they must have been taken from
                        living models. The cultured, cynical, yet sensitive and kindly St. Clare,
                        and his querulous wife Marie; Eva, their affectionate, spiritual, fairy-like
                        child; the grotesque Topsy; the prim and precise Miss Ophelia, with strong
                        New England instincts and prejudices; Haley the slave-trader, the "man of
                        humanity," — seem especially life-like. Legree's brutality is
                        almost inconceivable, and its only justification is found in the fact that
                        such men, abnormal as they were, actually existed and controlled the
                        destinies of great numbers of human beings.
                    Some of the episodes are quite as effective as the main current of the
                        narrative; for example, the stealing of Lucy's baby by the slave trader on
                        the way down the Ohio, followed by the suicide of the mother. We know that
                        children were sold in just that fashion, and the simple narrative tells us
                        exactly what it meant. There is a terrible power, too, in the whispered
                        story about poor Prue: "She's got drunk again and they put her down cellar,
                        and they left her all day, and I hearn them saying that the flies had got to
                        her, and she's  dead." No detailed account of
                        the actual barbarities inflicted upon the wretched creature could give a
                        stronger impression of the hideous reality than the whispers of the other
                        slaves who knew of it and yet were afraid to speak.
                    To make a fine work of art, the subject ought to be worthy and the treatment
                        artistic. Mrs. Stowe fails a little in the latter point, but there was never
                        a novelist with a more impressive theme. It is that theme, after all, which
                        has given to her work the chief part of its permanent value.
                
                
                
                    CRANFORD
                    MRS. GASKELL
                    "CRANFORD" is a novel of somewhat the same character as "Pride and
                        Prejudice." There are few pictures more true to life than Mrs. Gaskell's
                        description of the small town and the little ladies who inhabit it. It was a
                        town from which men were mostly absent, and where it was felt that they
                        would be quite useless even if they were there. The little women were filled
                        with great love for gentility and a distrust of mankind so great that they
                        almost persuaded themselves that to be a man was to be vulgar. They
                        practiced "elegant economies"— for money-spending was "low and
                        ostentatious." They never admitted their poverty, and were greatly shocked
                        when Captain Brown came to town and openly confessed his own. They were so
                        refined that they had to retire to the privacy of their own rooms to suck an
                        orange, and were filled with dismay when at the house of Mr. Holbrook peas
                        were placed upon the table to be eaten with a two-pronged fork.
                    We have delicious bits of rambling and inconsequent talk, delicate
                        descriptions of the various strata of respectability in Cranford, and of the
                        autocratic social dominion exercised by one Mrs. Jameson, who, although a
                        great tyrant over her  neighbors, lived in
                        abject fear of her own butler. The author portrays graphically the
                        superstitions of the ladies in this little community, their belief in a
                        "murderous gang" which was always upon the point of committing some
                        desperate robbery, their terror of footpads who never appeared, their
                        various opinions upon the subject of ghosts, and the ingenious scheme of
                        rolling a ball under the bed so as to find whether a robber was hidden
                        there, without stooping down to look. The author describes vividly the
                        character of the small economies in which each person is said to have some
                        specialty of his own; while one preserves bits of paper, another saves up
                        all the strings; with a good housekeeper it is butter or cream, while with
                        Miss Mattie Jenkyns, the heroine of the story, if the story can be said to
                        have a heroine, it was in the matter of candles. This Miss Mattie is a
                        lovable character, very self-depreciating and always submissive to her older
                        sister Deborah. Miss Mattie had had a lover in her youth, one Mr. Holbrook,
                        an old-fashioned country farmer who was found lacking in gentility by the
                        rest of the family, therefore her days ebbed away in single blessedness.
                    Realistic pictures are given of the difficulties of the little ladies with
                        servants and their "followers," who were always forbidden by the strict
                        rules prevailing in Cranford, but who never could be kept out.
                    There are episodes filled with very real and tender pathos — the
                        sacrifices made by Miss Jessie  Brown for her
                        invalid sister, the sad picture of the suffering of the mother whose boy,
                        after a public flogging by his father, ran off to sea. This same boy, later
                        in life, reappeared in Cranford, ever true to his character as a practical
                        joker, and astonished the ladies by his accounts of the hunting of cherubim
                        among the heights of the Himalayas, a kind of sport which seemed to them
                        little better than sacrilege.
                    The whole book is a delicious epitome of the narrow life of a small town, and
                        is an ample refutation of the curious dogma, lately announced, that women
                        are deficient in the sense of humor!
                
                
                
                    BARFÜSSELE
                    BERTHOLD AUERBACH
                    I HARDLY know whether Auerbach will always be regarded as one of the great
                        masters of fiction, but to me his simple village stories take a higher rank
                        than many works that are far more pretentious. They are filled with infinite
                        tenderness, and are true to the essential traits of human nature. Auerbach
                        has an intimate knowledge of the village life in the Black Forest, of which
                        he writes, and he is able to combine universal characteristics with local
                        peculiarities in such a way that the picture becomes vivid and
                        convincing.
                    "Barfüssele" is the story of a little orphan girl, a wise child, clear-headed
                        and reflective, who develops under the solemn training of poverty and sorrow
                        into a character of great sweetness, self-reliance, and heroism.
                    In the opening chapter we see her with her younger brother walking to the
                        house where they have always lived, knocking at the door and calling for
                        their father and mother. The children do not understand the meaning of the
                        funeral they have attended, nor why they have been separated and given to
                        the care of others, and they are looking for their parents to come home
                        again. But there is no answer to their calling, so they go off to the pond
                        and amuse themselves by throwing  stones and
                        making them skip across the water. Here Amrei, the girl, pretends to be more
                        awkward than she really is, in order to give Dami, her little brother, the
                        pleasure of showing his greater skill.
                    Many charming incidents of childhood follow — accounts of the
                        riddles that she gives and guesses, descriptions of her quaint childish
                        philosophy regarding the birds, the dogs, the trees, and the deep problem of
                        human sorrow.
                    After a while she begins to earn her living by tending a flock of geese, and
                        when the Rodelbauer, her guardian, wants her to give up such work because it
                        is a reproach to her, she answers steadfastly, "I must carry out what I have
                        begun.".
                    It is a sad life she leads with the Black Marann, a widow, who through long
                        years has been waiting for the return of an only son, from whom she hears
                        nothing. The boy has in fact been killed in Algiers, yet no one in the
                        village dares to tell her, though they tell Amrei, and the child has to bear
                        the burden of this secret. But amid all this gloom, the heart of the orphan
                        girl is strengthened by the precepts of her melancholy companion, who tells
                        her how much better it is to be sufficient to one's self than to depend upon
                        another for happiness. And when at the wedding at the Rodelbauer's no one
                        will dance with "Little Barefoot" (for so the girl is called), she dances by
                        herself and dances well, and says "It is better to dance alone,  for then I do not need to wait for a
                        partner."
                    But the main purpose of her life is to cheer and stimulate her younger
                        brother, a boy who is weak-spirited, complaining and unsteady, whose
                        character is indeed a sharp contrast to her own. Into his mind she tries to
                        instil her own spirit of independence. He finds service in a neighboring
                        village, and she will not weep at parting with him until after he is gone,
                        and then the world seems very empty to her. Daimi is unjustly turned away
                        from his situation and loses all his little belongings in a fire. He works
                        for a while with a charcoal-burner, and then resolves to go to America. His
                        sister secretly rejoices at his bold purpose, but reproves him severely when
                        he wants to revenge himself upon the master who has discharged him. It is
                        largely through her efforts that his passage money is raised. She gives him
                        his father's ax and sack, and tells him that these two things mean that he
                        must work and gather and save the results of his labor, and that they must
                        be the inspiration of his life.
                    Meanwhile she has been taken into service at the Rodelbauer's, and her
                        goodness and skill have made her indispensable, though she suffers much from
                        the taunts and scolding of Rosel, the daughter of the household. Her
                        clothing is poor, but always very neat, for, says the author, "Neatness is
                        the ornament of poverty, costing nothing, but not to be purchased."
                    On one occasion Amrei is unexpectedly asked to accompany her master's family
                        to a wedding  party in a neighboring village,
                        and while there, when she overhears Rosel's remark, "It is only our serving
                        maid," she says to herself, "Don't let a word spoil all your pleasure. If
                        you begin that you will walk everywhere upon thorns."
                    An unknown youth, who comes riding a gray horse, dances with her. There is a
                        lively description of the festival, of her enthusiasm and the joy of that
                        dance, and of her thoughts in her little room in the still night when she
                        returns.
                    The scene now changes to the house of the Landfriedbauer, a wealthy peasant,
                        whose son Johannes is sent out to seek a wife. His mother follows the boy
                        down the road and has a long confidential talk with him, which is charming
                        for its naïvete and shrewdness. Her description of the
                        signs by which a good wife may be told is quite elaborate. Johannes must
                        notice how she behaves towards her servants, how she blows out the light; he
                        must observe her if he can in anger, "when the hidden inner man leaps out";
                        he must notice how she laughs, whether her flowers thrive, whether she is
                        willing to sing a second part or always wants to set the key." A girl should
                        never go with empty hands, and she must leap three hedges to pick up a
                        feather." But in her doings she must be quiet and constant, not filled with
                        mad eagerness," as if she would tear down a piece of the world." He must
                        notice whether she unties a knot or cuts it, whether she keeps her copybooks
                        and early treasures, whether she wears her shoes inside or outside, and
                        whether she cares for  the poor. Thus
                        furnished with much useful information, Johannes rides forth on his gray
                        horse to seek his wife.
                    Now the father of Johannes has written to the Krappenzacher in Amrei's
                        village, to take his son to the best houses there, and the Krappenzacher, by
                        agreement with the Rodelbauer, is to have a hundred kronenthalers if
                        Johannes marries Rosel. The young man is ostensibly looking for another gray
                        horse, so a horse of that color is put into the Rodelbauer's stable and the
                        young man is brought thither to examine him. On this occasion Rosel is to
                        come out and milk the cows as proof of her housewifery, but as she knows
                        nothing about milking, the experiment is made with a full pail and with a
                        cow already milked. While the men are discussing their horse trade, Rosel's
                        voice is heard in song near by, and "Little Barefoot" sings the second part.
                        Johannes asks who they are, and the Rodelbauer tells him that Amrei is an
                        adopted child of whom his father was once the guardian, for he knows that
                        this will sound better than to say she is a servant.
                    In the meantime Amrei has discovered that the visitor is the same as he who
                        has danced with her at the wedding, and whose mother it was that gave her a
                        necklace when she was a child; and Johannes on his part finds in Little
                        Barefoot the qualities of which his mother has spoken. In a sudden outbreak
                        of rage and jealousy Rosel strikes Amrei to the ground. Just at that moment
                        Johannes appears, and naturally it is not Rosel  but Little Barefoot whom he chooses for his wife.
                    The lovers' talk, their riddles and their songs as they ride off together on
                        the gray horse, are set forth in a narrative of singular beauty, and when
                        she reaches his home it is the girl and not Johannes who has to break the
                        news to the Land-friedbauer and his wife and seek their blessing, while the
                        young man stays at the miller's in much anxiety as to the outcome of her
                        mission. Her plea is really eloquent in its simple pathos. She is accepted,
                        and the Landfriedbauer and his wife, being anxious to avoid the reproach of
                        having let the boy marry a penniless girl, each gives her in secret a store
                        of coins which has been laid by, and when both stores are spread upon the
                        table at a family reunion, each parent really begins to believe what they
                        both say, that their new daughter-in-law has come to them with a dowry of
                        her own.
                    This modern "Cinderella" is written in a style of great simplicity, and in my
                        view, the village heroine, the counterpart of whom no doubt exists in many
                        similar communities, is entitled to a high place in literature.
                
                
                
                    EKKEHARD
                    JOSEPH VON SCHEFFEL
                    "EKKEHARD" is a novel derived very largely from mediæval records that are now
                        little remembered. It attempts to reproduce for the modern reader the
                        political and social conditions of the tenth century, and the story is
                        accompanied with numerous notes and references, giving evidence of the
                        careful researches of the author. It is to German scholarship, indeed, that
                        one would naturally look for a work of this description, for although many
                        novelists elsewhere use historical materials for certain parts of their
                        works, there are few who would follow the records with such fidelity.
                    The scene opens at a castle on a lofty eminence near the lake of Constance.
                        Hadwig, the young and not inconsolable widow of the old duke, resolves for
                        diversion to go with her train to the monastery of St. Gallus on the other
                        side of the lake. This visit, illustrating many of the details of monastic
                        life, is graphically and attractively described. According to the rules of
                        the order, no woman's foot may pass over the threshold of the cloister, but
                        as the duchess is the protectress of the convent, it is determined that she
                        may be carried over, and the duty falls upon the young monk Ekkehard, whose
                        flattering words win him such favor  that he
                        is commanded to go to her castle of Hohentwiel to instruct her in Latin and
                        read Virgil to her. The development of a very natural romance follows.
                        Ekkehard is as innocent as a child, and for a long time his mistress vainly
                        tries to awaken in him the passion that rises in her own heart. When a horde
                        of barbarous Huns attacks her possessions, and the monks of Reichenau and
                        St. Gallus betake themselves to the castle for defense, she gives him the
                        sword of her late husband and bids him distinguish himself in the combat.
                        The Huns are defeated, but Ekkehard has not signalized himself by any
                        remarkable exploit. In a contest of story-telling, too, he fails to meet the
                        expectations of his mistress, and when at last his own passion is fully
                        aroused, it is too late. He seizes an inopportune moment to declare it. He
                        is detected in the chapel in most unmonastic behavior, and Hadwig is
                        inexorable. He is imprisoned, he escapes and flees to the regions of the
                        higher Alps, where he dwells in a cave, and for his own consolation composes
                        the "Waltharïlied," a short epic, full of much slaughter, in which heads and
                        hands and feet are hacked off, eyes put out, and other unappetizing feats of
                        arms performed amid the lusty merriment even of those who suffer from these
                        mutilations. This work is an actual reproduction of a poem of the time, but
                        many will consider it a blemish in a romance with which it has little
                        connection.
                    When the winter comes and the flocks on the mountains descend to the valleys,
                        Ekkehard leaves  his hermitage, and passing,
                        on his way to distant parts, the castle which had witnessed his
                        discomfiture, he fastens his parchment to an arrow which he sends as a
                        farewell greeting to his former mistress, whose resentment has softened and
                        who receives it with tears.
                    There are many striking episodes in the book. The stern fury of the hermit
                        Wiborad, immured in a living tomb near the monastery of St. Gallus; the
                        encounter between the coarse cellarer, Rudiman, and Kerhildis, the chief
                        serving-maid of the monastery of Reichenau; the delightful pastoral scenes
                        between the two children Audifax and Hadumoth, bond-servants of the castle;
                        the elaborate and learned lampoon written against Ekkehard by the monk Gunzo
                        in revenge for catching him in a grammatical error; the realistic accounts
                        of certain ridiculous superstitions; the lifelike description of the
                        preparations for a German Christmas — these things give the book a
                        deservedly high rank as a faithful reproduction of the customs of the time.
                        Von Scheffel has invested mediaeval monasticism with a fine poetic grace and
                        charm. But it is seldom that a story which is used largely as a means of
                        conveying historical information concerning a remote period is as vivid in
                        the delineation of character as one where the scene is laid amid the
                        immediate surroundings of the writer, and it can not be said that the two
                        chief figures of the novel, Hadwig and Ekkehard, are at all impressive as
                        portraits of actual life.
                
                
                
                    THE ROMANCE OF A POOR YOUNG MAN
                    OCTAVE FEUILLET
                    "THE Romance of a Poor Young Man" is a charming tale, and quite free from the
                        cynicism which pervades much of modern French fiction. The hero (who tells
                        his own story in his diary) is the young Marquis d'Hauterive, who, reduced
                        to extreme poverty by the extravagance of his father, assumes the name of M.
                        Odiot, becomes the manager of the estate of M. Laroque, and falls in love
                        with Marguerite, the beautiful heiress of the house. She secretly returns
                        his passion, but treats him oftentimes with great cruelty from the suspicion
                        that he, like others, is seeking her hand in order to advance his fortunes.
                        The noble character of both the chief personages of the novel appears
                        naturally and simply from the recital of the things they say and do, and the
                        narrative of the expeditions to some of the Celtic ruins in Brittany upon
                        which he attends her has all the charm, of a pastoral. The ridiculous M.
                        Bevallan, his rival, who reveals most opportunely his commonplace character
                        and sordid motives; the romantic Mme. Laroque, the mother of Marguerite; the
                        ancient spinster, Mile, de Porhoet, who bears with dignity her triple burden
                        of high lineage, age, and poverty — indeed  all the characters are skillfully drawn, and their doings form
                        an excellent background for the action of the two chief personages of the
                        story.
                    "The Romance of a Poor Young Man" is emphatically a work of exquisite finish
                        and high creative art. Yet it does not wholly lack the extravagances which
                        seem inevitable in modern French fiction. When the hero has been unjustly
                        reproached by the proud beauty, who suspects his mercenary designs, he vows
                        in his rage and despair that he will never wed her, even if she were to
                        implore him upon her knees, unless his fortune should be equal to her own;
                        and after every other obstacle is cleared away, he persists in adhering to
                        this unreasonable vow. Then he learns that Marguerite and her mother propose
                        to give their fortune to charitable uses, so as to remove the last hindrance
                        to their union. But this, too, he will not permit, and it requires a tour de force to straighten out these complications.
                    Mile, de Porhoet has been conducting a long litigation to recover a certain
                        inheritance in Spain. At the moment of her death the property becomes hers,
                        and although she had designed it for the erection of a magnificent cathedral
                        (the dream of her life), she now bequeaths it to the young marquis, and thus
                        the novel has an appropriate and happy termination. But it is hard to resist
                        the conclusion that the outcome would have been more natural if no such
                        extraordinary event had been necessary to bring it about, but only a little
                        more common sense on the part of the hero!
                
                
                
                    MADAME BOVARY
                    GUSTAVE FLAUBERT
                    "MADAME BOVARY" is a type of a novel very common in modern literature. It
                        depicts the gradual steps that lead to degradation and ruin, and the fatal
                        influence of a single vicious character upon everything around it.
                    M. Bovary, a young doctor of moderate attainments, but of earnest purposes,
                        kindly disposition, and upright life, falls in love with the daughter of a
                        wealthy peasant in the neighborhood, who has received at a convent an
                        education above her station, whose mind is filled with romantic notions, and
                        whose eyes are constantly dazzled by the glamour of the rank, wealth and
                        splendor that are just beyond her reach, She becomes more and more
                        dissatisfied with her surroundings and with her rather uninteresting
                        husband, who on his part is entirely devoted to her and who sacrifices his
                        most important interests merely to gratify her whims. She falls into one
                        intrigue after another, becoming first the victim of a roué, and then the paramour of a young man much like herself. To
                        gratify her fancies she involves her husband in financial ruin, and at last
                        ends her worthless life by suicide. The death scene is powerfully narrated,
                        and from a merely artistic  point of view the
                        novel is a highly finished production. It is said that such works teach an
                        important lesson — the inevitable results of wrong doing; but in
                        this case at least it may well be questioned whether the details presented
                        in the author's brilliant descriptions are not more likely to lead to the
                        imitation rather than the avoidance of conduct whose present delights are
                        most alluring, however disastrous may be their final consequences. In this
                        tale we see the effect of sentimental and immoral novels upon the heroine
                        herself, and it is hard to resist the conviction that it is largely by
                        reading such works as "Madame, Bovary" that Madame Bovarys are made.
                
                
                
                    THE ORDEAL OF RICHARD FEVEREL
                    GEORGE MEREDITH
                    THE fiction of George Meredith, like the poetry of Browning, appeals to a
                        limited class of intellectuals. Close attention is often required to
                        understand the drift of events as well as the philosophy injected at every
                        point into the narrative. A considerable general education is requisite to
                        comprehend the literary and historical references and no little insight is
                        needed to appreciate the subtleties of a dialogue which is often brilliant
                        but sometimes obscure. There are elaborate explanations of the complicated
                        motives and feelings which control the actors of the drama. They do not
                        speak for themselves like the characters in more primitive fiction. There
                        are no such graphic descriptions as that of the London fog in Bleak House,
                        or of the Battle of Waterloo in Les Miserables, and there are few portraits
                        that stand out clearly in the memory like those of Don Quixote or Beatrix
                        Esmond. The whole work is more like a mural decoration or a tapestry than a
                        painting with a clear perspective and strong lights and shades. The style is
                        highly finished, and there are sometimes interesting digressions, though
                        these have not the exquisite abandon so often found in
                        those of Thackeray, and the satire lacks something of the airiness which is
                        often its greatest  charm. The author probes
                        many of the hidden recesses of the human heart, but his types are hardly so
                        universal as those of other great masters of fiction. His women are far more
                        attractive than his men.
                    Meredith is at his best when he is simplest, and Richard Feverel, especially
                        in its early chapters, is simpler than many of his other novels.
                    Richard Feverel is the only son of Sir Austin, a baronet, who has written his
                        philosophy of life in a series of aphorisms entitled "The Pilgrim's Scrip."
                        Left alone by a faithless wife in the care of his child, to whom he is
                        tenderly attached, he devises a scientific system of training so perfect
                        that the boy is to be "guiltless even of the impulse to gainsay his father's
                        wishes." It works well in the young lad's early escapades, including the
                        setting of fire to Farmer Blaize's hay rick, but it comes to naught when the
                        father attempts to guard his son from the perils of love and imprudent
                        matrimony, and to hunt a wife for him, and it ends in Richard's clandestine
                        marriage with the fair Lucy Dorchester, the niece of this same Farmer
                        Blaize. The father's efforts to keep young Richard and his wife apart after
                        their marriage as a further discipline in accordance with his absurd system
                        of education ends with the wrecking of two lives; with the boy's temptation
                        and fall and a succession of follies terminating in a duel, and finally with
                        the death of his young wife, whose gentle spirit is broken at last under the
                        continual sufferings to which she is subjected. It is a story  of unutterable sadness in its concluding
                        chapters.
                    A picture of surpassing beauty is that in which young Richard rowing upon the
                        river on his father's estate, first encounters the fair creature who is to
                        become his wife.
                    " Above green-flashing plunges of a weir, and shaken by the thunder below,
                        lilies, golden and white, were swaying at anchor among the reeds.
                        Meadow-sweet hung from the banks thick with weed and trailing bramble, and
                        there also hung a daughter of earth. Her face was shaded by a broad straw
                        hat with a flexible brim that left her lips and chin in the sun, and,
                        sometimes nodding, sent forth a light of promising eyes. Across her
                        shoulders, and behind, flowed large loose curls, brown in shadow, almost
                        golden where the ray touched them. She was simply dressed, befitting decency
                        and the season. On a closer inspection you might see that her lips were
                        stained. This blooming young person was regaling on dewberries. They grew
                        between the bank and the water making pretty progress to her mouth. . . The
                        little skylark went up above her, all song, to the smooth southern cloud
                        lying along the blue; from a dewy copse dark over her nodding hat the
                        blackbird fluted, calling to her with thrice mellow note; the kingfisher
                        flashed emerald out of green osiers; a bow-winged heron travelled aloft,
                        seeking solitude: a boat slipped towards her, containing a dreamy youth; and
                        still she plucked the fruit, and ate, and mused, as if no fairy prince were
                        invading her territories, and as  if she
                        wished not for one, or knew not her wishes. Surrounded by the green shaven
                        meadows, the pastoral summer buzz, the weir-fall's thundering white, amid
                        the breath and beauty of wild flowers, she was a bit of lovely human life in
                        a fair setting, a terrible attraction. The Magnetic Youth leaned round to
                        note his proximity to the weir-piles, and beheld the sweet vision. Stiller
                        and stiller grew nature, as at the meeting of two electric clouds. Her
                        posture was so graceful, that though he was making straight for the weir, he
                        dared not dip a scull. Just then one enticing dewberry caught her eyes. He
                        was floating by unheeded, and saw that her hand stretched low, and could not
                        gather what it sought. A stroke from his right brought him beside her. The
                        damsel glanced up dismayed, and her whole shape trembled over the brink.
                        Richard sprang from his boat into the water. Pressing a hand beneath her
                        foot, which she had thrust against the crumbling wet sides of the bank to
                        save herself, he enabled her to recover her balance, and gain safe earth,
                        whither he followed her."
                    The scene which succeeds — the revelation of the love of each to the
                        other — is worthy to stand by the side of the very best in all
                        dramatic literature, and in the later chapters the utter devotion and
                        perfect womanliness of the young wife, who is made a sacrifice to the
                        baronet's impossible "system," creates a character which is one of the most
                        lovable ever portrayed by the fancy of a writer of fiction.
                
                
                
                    THE CLOISTER AND THE HEARTH
                    CHARLES READE
                    "THE Cloister and the Hearth" is a novel which, like "Ivanhoe" and "Romola,"
                        illustrates the fact that it is occasionally possible for a novelist to deal
                        with distant scenes and times long past almost as effectively as with
                        immediate surroundings. In such cases the general groundwork of human nature
                        is ever present, and in matters of detail the imagination supplies the place
                        of accurate knowledge, while the style and the thoughts acquire added
                        dignity by being transported from the commonplace.
                    This work is unlike most of the other novels of Charles Reade, and is of a
                        higher quality. The dignity of style, however, is by no means uniformly
                        sustained. There are many defects in the book, and very glaring ones. I read
                        it for a long time before its full power and beauty dawned upon me. There is
                        in places an artificial conciseness and often an apparent straining for
                        effect which is unpleasant. There are instances of great carelessness of
                        construction, and colloquialisms which resemble very closely modern slang.
                        As the tale deals with a remote period, the diction is generally archaic;
                        yet the archaism consists not so much in the style as in the use of obsolete
                             English words, such as "buss me,"
                        "hosen," "shoon," "cowen," etc., which seem inappropriate since the
                        conversation was necessarily in another language. Moreover, these archaisms
                        are not consistently carried out in all places. Many of the jokes and saws
                        are stilted, and some of the poetical quotations are lugged headforemost
                        into places where they do not belong. The main plot is often stifled by the
                        abundance of incidents, and there is an appearance of mechanism in the
                        sudden alternations of hope and fear, success and failure, which chase each
                        other in rapid succession through the pages. There are false notes here and
                        there; language is used and events described which are in atrociously bad
                        taste; incidents are told in a sensational way worthy of yellow journalism;
                        and in places you have the conviction that the characters would not
                        naturally do the things described. Yet, with all these defects, the story of
                        the love of Gerard Eliassoen and Margaret Brandt is full of deep human
                        interest, and in many places the tale is one of singular beauty.
                    Elias, a small tradesman of Tergou, and Catherine, his wife, have many
                        children, and to provide for them the utmost economy is necessary. One of
                        the sons, Gerard, an illuminator of manuscripts, is destined for the clergy.
                        He becomes a competitor for two of the prizes offered by Philip the Good of
                        Burgundy for the best painting and writing on vellum. On his way to the
                        competition at Rotterdam he falls in with an 
                        old man, Peter Brandt, a so-called magician, and his daughter Margaret; and
                        when he wins a prize, and when in addition the Princess Marie has promised
                        him a benefice, he has fallen so deeply in love with Margaret that "the
                        hours they spent together were the hours they lived; the rest they counted
                        and underwent."
                    His parents oppose the marriage, and the burgomaster, Ghysbrecht Van Swieten,
                        has strong personal reasons for preventing it. Gerard and Margaret are
                        betrothed, and have signed their marriage lines in the presence of
                        witnesses, so that the law holds them for man and wife; but twice when they
                        appear at the altar the wedding is interrupted, and the second time Gerard
                        is imprisoned in the tower of the Stadthouse, from which he escapes by the
                        device and aid of Margaret. He is pursued by Ghysbrecht and his retainers,
                        and after many hairbreadth escapes, in which Margaret repeatedly rescues
                        him, he flees from Holland and goes on foot to Rome, where he intends to
                        pursue his art, and then return to claim his bride. The liveliest
                        descriptions are given of his adventures on the way — of the German
                        inns, of the companion who accompanies him, Denys the Burgundian soldier, a
                        well drawn character, garrulous, brave, generous, and debonair, whose
                        constant formula of encouragement is "Courage, l'ami, le diable
                            est mort!" and whose foible, like that of many of his compatriots,
                        is a fondness for women. There is a blood-curdling description of a combat
                        with a bear, whose  cub they have stolen; of a
                        supper under a gibbet; of a pedantic doctor, who is burned by the irons with
                        which he had proposed to cauterize Gerard. In places the story seems almost
                        like some mediaeval Baedeker, filled with accounts of the sights to be seen
                        and of the customs of the people, as well as with tales of the carousals of
                        the monks in the convents. The two companions pass into Burgundy, and
                        Burgundian manners are vividly contrasted with those of Germany. They betake
                        themselves to an inn, where the landlord and six confederates conspire to
                        murder them; but after a bloody struggle, with marvelous incidents and
                        prodigies of daring, they are rescued, and their assailants are duly hanged
                        or broken on the wheel. But now the two friends are separated; Denys is
                        impressed by a band of soldiers, and Gerard is left alone, to be robbed by
                        highwaymen.
                    At home, in the meantime, there is a conspiracy between the burgomaster and
                        two brothers of Gerard, who seek to prevent his marriage, and a false letter
                        is sent to him at Rome telling him Margaret is dead.
                    A graphic picture is drawn of his despair, of his plunging madly into a
                        reckless and wicked life, to drown his grief. He resolves upon suicide, but
                        he is rescued from the Tiber and awakens to consciousness in a convent,
                        where, filled with penitence, he embraces the monastic life, and becomes a
                        preacher of great power. And now come alternating chapters,  picturing Gerard in the cloister and on his
                        pilgrimages, and Margaret, with her child, by the hearth at home.
                    Finally, on a pilgrimage to England, Gerard passes through Rotterdam, and
                        preaches with great eloquence in the convent church. Margaret is present.
                        The chapters are of great power which portray the recognition of the lovers,
                        the discovery of the false letter, and the curse launched by Gerard upon his
                        two brothers who had planned it But soon Gerard disappears, and becomes an
                        anchorite in a cave not far away. There is a superb description of the
                        struggles of his soul; of the temptations that beset him; of his "turning to
                        gloomy madness"; of his dreams, in which the face of Margaret comes to him
                        irradiated with sunshine, while she blushes and casts on him looks of
                        ineffable tenderness, murmuring, "Gerard, be whose thou wilt by day, but at
                        night, be mine!"; of his terrible efforts to subdue the body, and of his
                        spiritual conquest. But Margaret has discovered the anchorite in his
                        retreat, where she has identified him by a mark upon the finger which he
                        stretches forth from the small window of his cave to feed the birds; and on
                        one occasion, as he returns to his hermitage, which he leaves only in the
                        night, he finds that Margaret is there. He believes she is an evil spirit
                        sent to tempt him; he seeks to exorcise her, and a dreadful scene ensues, as
                        she tries to lead him away from his foul den, They part in fury, but she has
                        left behind her sleeping boy, who, when  he
                        wakes, by his innocent prattle wins the heart of the monk, who is quite
                        unconscious that the child is his own. Margaret comes upon them, and
                        beseeches her husband to take courage now that God has sent the boy to
                        comfort him for what he has lost in her, and "that is not so very much, for
                        the better part of love shall never cool." Eloquent is the pleading by which
                        at last she wins him to go to Gouda Manse, which she has already prepared
                        for his coming, and to care for the flock over which he had been appointed
                        vicar.
                    The remainder of the story deals with the quiet life of Gerard in the Manse,
                        and of Margaret,— still separated by the church and by their own
                        consciences, but united by a living pledge of affection. At last she is
                        taken down with the plague, and the final scene between the two is pathetic
                        and beautiful to the last degree. Gerard can not survive her; he ends his
                        days in a convent near the Manse; and when he confesses to the stern Father
                        Jerome, he says:
                    "She was my good angel; she sustained me in my duty and charity; her face
                        encouraged me in the pulpit; her lips soothed me under ingratitude. She
                        intertwined herself with all that was good in my life; and after leaning on
                        her so long, I could not go on alone. And, dear Jerome, believe me, I am no
                        rebel against heaven. It is God's will to release me. When they threw the
                        earth upon her poor coffin, something snapped within my bosom here that
                        mended may not be. I heard it and I felt it. . . . He in whose hands are the
                        issues of life and  death gave me that minute
                        the great summons; 'twas some cord of life snapped in me. He is very
                        pitiful. I should have lived unhappy; but He said, ' No; enough is done,
                        enough is suffered; poor, feeble, loving servant, thy shortcomings are
                        forgiven, thy sorrows touch their end; come thou to thy rest!'"
                    The child that survived them was known as the great scholar of mediaeval
                        times, Erasmus; for the foundation of the story is laid in historic fact.
                        The author, to use his own simile, has turned the epitome into a narrative,
                        and the skeleton into a human figure.
                    There are many passages in the book that are vivid and beautiful. For
                        instance, a fine description is given of Philip the Good, Duke of
                        Burgundy:
                    "He could fight as well as any king going; and he could lie as well as any,
                        except the King of France. He was a mighty hunter, and could read and write.
                        His tastes were wide and ardent. He loved jewels like a woman, and gorgeous
                        apparel. He dearly loved maids of honor, and indeed paintings generally, in
                        proof of which he ennobled Jan Van Eyck. He had also a rage for giants,
                        dwarfs, and Turks. These last stood ever planted about him, turbaned, and
                        blazing with jewels. His agents inveigled them from Istamboul with fair
                        promises; but, the moment he had got them, he baptized them by brute force
                        in a large tub, and, this done, let them squat with their faces towards
                        Mecca, and invoke Mahound as much as they pleased, laughing in his sleeve at
                        their simplicity in fancying they were still infidels. He had lions in
                        cages, and fleet leopards trained  by
                        Orientals to run down hares and deer. In short, he relished all rarities,
                        except the humdrum virtues. For anything singularly pretty, or diabolically
                        ugly, this was your customer. The best of him was, he was open-handed to the
                        poor; and the next best was, he fostered the arts in earnest, whereof he now
                        gave a signal proof."
                    Listen to the following description of a Mystery:
                    "In this representation divine personages, too sacred for me to name here,
                        came clumsily down from heaven to talk sophistry with the cardinal Virtues,
                        the nine Muses, and the seven deadly Sins, all present in human shape, and
                        not unlike one another. To enliven which weary stuff, in rattled the Prince
                        of the Powers of the Air, and an imp that kept molesting him and buffeting
                        him with a bladder, at each thwack of which the crowd were in ecstasies.
                        When the Vices had uttered good store of obscenity and the Virtues twaddle,
                        the celestials, including the nine Muses, went gingerly back to heaven one
                        by one; for there was but one cloud; and two artisans worked it up with its
                        supernatural freight, and worked it down with a winch, in full sight of the
                        audience. These disposed of, the bottomless pit opened and flamed in the
                        centre of the stage; the carpenters and Virtues shoved the Vices in, and the
                        Virtues and Beelzebub and his tormentor danced merrily round the place of
                        eternal torture to the fife and tabor."
                    One of the stories told in this novel seems too good to have been wholly an
                        invention of the novelist. It is the story of the poor curé who was summoned before his bishop for demanding  the burial fees in advance whenever he
                        baptized a child. His excuse to the bishop was:
                    "I have been curé of that parish seven years, and fifty
                        children have I baptized, and buried not five. At first I used to say,
                        'Heaven be praised, the air of this village is main healthy,' but on
                        searching the register book I found 'twas always so, and on probing the
                        matter it came out that of those born at Domfont, all but here and there one
                        did go and get hanged at Aix. But this was to defraud not their curé only, but the entire church of their dues; since pendards pay
                        no funeral fees, being buried in air."
                
                
                
                    LES MISERABLES
                    VICTOR HUGO
                    I FIND it hard to understand much that I find in the modern French novel. The
                        conduct of the characters described in "Don Quixote" or "The Betrothed" is
                        perfectly intelligible to me. I can thread my way through mists of German
                        psychology and the extravagances of Russian fiction, but the Frenchman of my
                        owns time is quite beyond me. And whether he appears in a novel or actual
                        life, his conduct often seems to me as remote from the possibilities of
                        human character as if he were an inhabitant of Mars. The older French
                        fiction is not so incomprehensible; the absurdities of Rabelais and the
                        follies of Gil Blas and Manon Lescaut are not unnatural, but I confess
                        myself utterly unable to follow the motives which actuate Javert, Jeao
                        Valjean, and some of the revolutionists in "Les Miserables."
                    And yet in this great novel there are episodes of wonderful beauty. The
                        natural and the impossible, the simple and the incomprehensible are thrown
                        together in hopeless confusion. Jean Valjean, a convict discharged from the
                        galleys after nineteen years of penal servitude, passes through the little
                        town of "D," where every door is  closed
                        against him. Nowhere, not even in the jail, can he find shelter for a single
                        night, until the good bishop, as saintly and lovable a character as ever
                        illustrated the pages of fiction, receives him in simple confidence. Jean
                        Valjean repays his hospitality by stealing the bishop's silver candlesticks.
                        He is arrested, but the good man, to save him from punishment, tells the
                        gendarmes that the candlesticks have been taken with his own consent. On his
                        way from the village Jean Valjean robs the little Gervais, a poor Savoyard.
                        But the generosity of the bishop now produces a strange tumult in his heart,
                        remorse overcomes him, the whole current of his life is changed, and he is
                        at once transformed into a man as heroic and self-sacrificing as imagination
                        can conceive.
                    Under the name of M. Madeleine he becomes a successful manufacturer at "M. sur M.," charitable, public-spirited, and beneficent,
                        and he is elected mayor of the city. Javert, an incorruptible but unamiable
                        sleuth hound of the police, believes that he recognizes in M. Madeleine the
                        convict Jean Valjean, and he writes to his superior officer announcing the
                        discovery, but the proof is insufficient, and when at last he learns that
                        Jean Valjean has been arrested elsewhere, Javert is convinced that he has
                        been mistaken. He thereupon appears before the mayor and tells him what he
                        has done and asks M. Madeleine to remove him from his position, which he
                        considers himself unqualified to fill.
                    
                    Fantlne, the mistress of one Tholomyès, a student, is abandoned by her lover
                        and seeks employment, leaving her child Cosette with one Thenardier, an
                        innkeeper at Montfermeil, by whom the little creature is maltreated and
                        abused, while ever increasing demands are made on the poor mother for her
                        support. Fantine obtains employment in the factory of M. Madeleine, but is
                        discharged without his knowledge, and gradually sinks to the lowest depths
                        of poverty and degradation. When M. Madeleine knows of her misery and the
                        cause of it, he takes Fantine under his protection, but it is now too late,
                        for when he learned that another man under the name of Jean Valjean was
                        about to be sent to the galleys for robbing the little Gervais, he discloses
                        his own identity at the trial in order to prevent another from suffering in
                        his stead. He is arrested by Javert, and Fantine dies committing her little
                        daughter to his care. Jean Valjean is again sent to the galleys, but he
                        escapes, finds Cosette, rescues her from the inhuman Thenardier and his
                        wife, and they live long together in an old house in Paris. Here he is again
                        detected by Javert and followed, but escapes with Cosette after superhuman
                        exertions, climbing over a high wall into a convent, where he is cherished
                        by the old gardener whose life he had saved some time before, and after a
                        remarkable episode in which he is buried alive for a short time, he takes
                        service in the garden of the convent where Cosette becomes a pupil.
                    
                    The boy Marius now becomes Cosette's lover, and there are many passages of
                        natural though rather silly lovemaking, and the sacrifices made by Jean
                        Valjean to the happiness of the young couple are extraordinary, and often
                        indeed unnecessary and unreasonable.
                    Through the book the French melodramatic instinct and love for exaggeration
                        everywhere appears. Jean Valjean himself is a man of more than human powers.
                        His transformation from a criminal to a saint is very hard to believe. The
                        virtues of the good people and the wickedness of the villains are excessive
                        and unnatural. There is a small group of desperate and impossible bandits,
                        and a small coterie of revolutionists for revolution's sake, heroic
                        absurdities who could exist nowhere outside of France or bedlam. There are
                        fights at the barricades and labyrinthian journeys through the sewers of
                        Paris, a great deal of slaughtering and many hairbreadth escapes; but in
                        this strange kaleidoscope figures of marvellous beauty sometimes
                        appear— the little Gavroche, the gamin who
                        protects and patronizes his small brothers and lodges them in the entrails
                        of a wooden elephant; the old bourgeois, M. Gillenormand, charitable,
                        wrong-headed, and gallant, to whom "the republic was a guillotine in the
                        twilight and the empire a saber in the night"; and his daughter, Mile.
                        Gillenormand, "the incombustible prude."
                    When Javert, the detective, is at last overcome by the magnanimity of Jean
                        Valjean so that he  can no longer pursue his
                        prey and discharge his duty to the state, he finds refuge only in suicide!
                        There are many wise observations and brilliant passages, also a great
                        abundance of mere conceits. For instance: "Man is not a circle with a single
                        center, but an ellipse with two foci— facts are the one, ideas the
                        other." There are long descriptions of motives for acts which explain
                        themselves, and there are other acts, the motives for which are not only not
                        explained, but quite inexplicable. There are interminable digressions
                        everywhere. A trifling episode at Waterloo is the occasion for a very long
                        and graphic account of that battle, which has, in fact, nothing to do with
                        the novel. The fact that Jean Valjean happens to take refuge in a convent
                        leads to an elaborate description of the entire conventual system; a few
                        words of slang introduce a long treatise on argot;
                        Gavroche is the peg upon which is hung a treatise on the gamins of Paris; and interminable discussions regarding
                        barricades, sewers, and many other things which appear casually in the story
                        consume more than half the entire space in the whole work. In the meantime
                        the action is wholly suspended. Of course there are many valuable things in
                        these digressions. Hugo is a man of encyclopaedic knowledge, and much
                        philosophy, some good, some bad, appears in the book; but the feeling is
                        inevitable that this information and this philosophy ought to be furnished
                        in some other place, and not hung disjointedly upon the thread of a  novel with which it has no natural
                        connection.
                    But in spite of these defects, "Les Miser-ables" has perhaps appealed more
                        strongly than any novel ever written to the universal sympathy of mankind
                        for sorrow and suffering.
                
                
                
                    ROMOLA
                    GEORGE ELIOT
                    IT is no false judgment which has assigned to George Eliot a very
                        distinguished place among the masters of fiction. This writer had a better
                        right than perhaps any other of her sex to assume the nom-de-plume of a man; for one of the striking characteristics of
                        her work is its essentially masculine quality.
                    "Romola" is a somber tale. There is very little merriment in it, hardly the
                        faintest suspicion of humor, but there is a great deal of deep feeling, and
                        perhaps even more thought than feeling. Every chapter is pervaded with
                        reflections which are often striking, sometimes subtle, and nearly always
                        convincing.
                    Many phrases can be taken from different parts of the book, which, while
                        perfectly appropriate to the places where they are found, would also be
                        adapted to a general collection of maxims or epigrams. For instance:
                    "Under every guilty secret there is hidden a brood of guilty wishes whose
                        unwholesome infecting life is cherished by the darkness."
                    "There are moments when our passions speak and decide for us, and we seem to
                        stand by and wonder."
                    
                    " Our lives make a moral tradition for our individual selves, as the life of
                        mankind at large makes a moral tradition for the race, and to have acted
                        nobly seems a reason why we should always be noble."
                    "It is the lot of every man who has to speak for the satisfaction of the
                        crowd, that he must often speak in virtue of yesterday's faith, hoping it
                        will come back to-morrow."
                    Moralizing of this kind is apt to become tiresome in an ordinary writer, but
                        George Eliot's mind, like that of Shakespeare, has the rare and masterful
                        power of appropriately blending fiction and philosophy into a single
                        substance.
                    The story opens in 1492, at the time of the death of Lorenzo dei Medici, when
                        Tito Melema, a young Greek scholar, who has been recently shipwrecked, makes
                        his appearance in Florence, where the barber Nello (a gossipy fellow, as
                        barbers are wont to be, and with a smattering of learning) offers to get him
                        introduced to Bartolomeo Scala, the Secretary of the Republic, who will
                        perhaps employ him, and purchase some valuable gems which he has in his
                        possession. For this purpose Nello brings him to the house of Bardo dei
                        Bardi, a blind old scholar, who has collected a valuable library which he
                        intends to bequeath to Florence to be kept as a memorial of himself. In this
                        library Tito meets Romola, the daughter of Bardo and the companion and
                        associate of her father in his classical researches. Through Bardo, Melema
                        is  introduced to Scala, who buys some of his
                        gems, and moreover finds the young Greek very useful to him in a war of
                        epigrams he is waging with Politian, another celebrated scholar of the
                        time.
                    The gems which Tito sells are not, however, his own. They belong to
                        Baldasarre, a man now stricken in years, who had rescued Melema in
                        childhood, had adopted him, had loved him, and had educated him. The gallery
                        in which Baldasarre was travelling had been taken by a Turkish vessel, and
                        it was not certain whether he had perished or was held as a slave. Tito says
                        to himself, "If it were certain my father is alive, I would search for him
                        throughout the world to ransom him." But as he does not know, he keeps the
                        money, stays in Florence, and consoles himself with the thought, "I believe
                        he is dead."
                    And Tito flourishes. He assists Bardo in his studies and soon becomes
                        enamored of Romola. And when later, a monk who has come from the East gives
                        him a bit of parchment from his father saying: "I am sold for a slave. I
                        think they are going to take me to Antioch. The gems alone will serve to
                        ransom me," he reasons that he is not bound to seek his father and give up
                        his prosperous life. But he is filled with fear lest his baseness may be
                        discovered, when he learns that the monk who gave him the parchment is Dino,
                        the brother of Romola.
                    Melema's love is returned, and old Bardo regards him as the son who has taken
                        the place of the one who forsook him to become a monk. But  Dino is about to die. He sends for his sister
                        and tells her a vague vision which has appeared to him, warning her not to
                        marry. Romola, however, shares her father's skepticism of monkish
                        prophecies, and the betrothal is not long postponed.
                    The second book opens after a lapse of eighteen months, when Charles VIII,
                        the French king, is about to enter Florence. Before he comes, three
                        prisoners are brought in bound by three French soldiers and ordered to beg
                        money for their ransom. One of these, the oldest, escapes, and as he flees
                        to the cathedral he encounters Tito upon the steps and clutches him by the
                        arm. Melema turns and sees the face of Baldasarre close to his own. And when
                        one of Tito's companions asks "Who is he?" Tito answers, "Some madman
                        surely."
                    The old man, transformed into a fiend by this shameless ingratitude, now
                        devotes his failing faculties and clouded mind to the one purpose of
                        revenge, and Tito, filled with inexpressible terror, purchases a suit of
                        chain armor, which Romola discovers and is filled with suspicion, not only
                        at this, but also at a picture of "Fear" which she accidently sees, painted
                        by Piero di Cosimo, who saw the incident on the steps of the cathedral and
                        used her husband as his model.
                    In the meantime Bardo has died, and Tito, in violation of his plighted word,
                        determines to dispose of the library of the blind scholar, appropriate the
                        proceeds, and depart from Florence.  The
                        library is sold before he discloses this purpose to his wife. When her
                        husband's treachery is thus made clear to her, she asks him in bitter scorn,
                        "Have you robbed somebody else who is not dead? Is that the reason you wear
                        armor?"
                    Tito is about to depart from Rome on an errand of importance. Before he
                        leaves he goes to a banquet in the Rucellai gardens, and old Baldasarre
                        suddenly appears before the guests and denounces him. Melema coolly declares
                        that his accuser is an old servant, who had been dismissed for misdemeanors,
                        and had become insane. Rucellai, the host, proceeds to test the old man's
                        scholarship in proof of his credibility, but his memory is a blank. Tito is
                        exonerated and Baldasarre is cast into prison.
                    Romola, unwilling to live longer with a husband whom she has come to despise,
                        departs from the city. On her way Savonarola meets her, declares to her her
                        name and purpose, and commands her to return and resume her duties, not only
                        as wife, but as a citizen of Florence. Overcome by his commanding presence
                        and persuasive words, she obeys and returns to her dreary home, throwing all
                        the energy of her will into a life of renunciation.
                    At the opening of the third book, two years more have elapsed.
                    Romola learns of Tito's participation in a plot for decoying Savonarola
                        without the walls of the city. The monk is now the support and inspiration
                             of her life. She determines to save him,
                        and threatens to denounce her husband. The plot is thwarted, but the abyss
                        between Romola and Melema constantly widens. Baldasarre, released from
                        prison, tells her the story of her husband's perfidy, and also of Melema's
                        relations to another wife, an innocent, harmless little peasant girl, named
                        Tessa, who thinks she has been married to Tito by a sham ceremony performed
                        by a mountebank, and by whom he has two children. And now Bernardo del Nero,
                        Romola's godfather, to whom she is deeply devoted, has been arrested,
                        together with a number of the companions and intimates of Tito, for
                        conspiring to restore the Medici, and her heart is filled with loathing for
                        her husband when she learns from him that he is safe, for she realizes that
                        this must be by reason of some new treachery of his own. And so indeed it
                        was. He has been playing fast and loose with each of the three factions in
                        Florence, and betraying each by turns to secure his own safety or
                        promotion.
                    Bernardo and his associates are condemned to death, and the question is
                        whether an appeal shall be allowed to the Grand Council according to the
                        law. Romola seeks an interview with Savonarola and implores him to
                        intercede, reminding him that it was through his agency that the law was
                        passed, and that he has already spoken on behalf of another and more guilty
                        conspirator. But she fails to secure his help, and departs with deep
                        indignation against the man who had so long been  the controlling influence of her life. She consoles Bernardo
                        in his last moments, and is present even at the execution. Then, filled with
                        bitterness, she flees again, and on the shore of the Mediterranean enters a
                        small skiff and sets sail alone, drifting across the sea, hoping for
                        death.
                    In the meantime Savonarola has fallen into the toils of his enemies. He has
                        attacked the evil life of Pope Alexander, he has been excommunicated and has
                        defied the excommunication. And now a challenge comes to him to submit to an
                        ordeal. A Franciscan monk offers to walk through the fire with him. He
                        declines, but his associate, Fra Domenico, accepts the challenge. The ordeal
                        is to prove whether the tenets and prophecies of Savonarola be true or
                        false. On the appointed day the multitude assemble to see the spectacle. Fra
                        Domenico is ready, but there are long disputes regarding details —
                        what garb he shall wear, whether he shall bear the crucifix or the host into
                        the flames, until a shower of rain renders the trial impossible. But there
                        are loud murmurs among the multitude against Savonarola. If he were a
                        prophet, why did he not himself accept the ordeal? That night there was a
                        wild riot, and Savonarola was arrested and hurried to prison.
                    In the meantime Dolpho Spini, the leader of the Compagnacci, who have
                        instigated the riot, learns that Tito has also been false to that faction,
                        and orders him to be seized. He escapes, leaps into the Arno and swims down
                        the river in the  darkness, but when,
                        exhausted and fainting, he reaches the shore, there is waiting for him among
                        the rushes the old man Baldasarre, who has found the opportunity for
                        vengeance, and under whose hand he falls at last.
                    Romola has drifted to a little village on the coast which the plague had
                        emptied of most of its inhabitants. Here for a while she tends the
                        suffering, and finally, reconciled again with life, she feels that she must
                        return. When she reaches Florence and learns of her husband's death, she
                        seeks the helpless little Tessa and her children and takes them under her
                        protection.
                    And now Savonarola, amid the agonies of the torture, has confessed that he
                        was not a prophet, and he is condemned to death. She is present at the
                        solemn scene of execution, awaiting from him some word, free from
                        constraint, which should tell the final truth of his past life. But he is
                        silent upon the scaffold.
                    It is in the Epilogue that it first clearly appears that "Romola" is a novel
                        with a purpose, for here the heroine, many years afterwards, in an earnest
                        talk with Tessa's boy, thus tells him the moral of his father's life:
                    "There was a man to whom I was very near, so that I could see a great deal of
                        his life, who made almost every one fond of him, for he was young and clever
                        and beautiful, and his manners to all were gentle and kind. I believe, when
                        I first knew him, he never thought of anything cruel or base. But because he
                        tried to slip away from everything that was unpleasant, and cared  for nothing else so much as his own safety,
                        he came at last to commit some of the basest deeds, such as make men
                        infamous. He denied his father, and left him to misery; he betrayed every
                        trust that was reposed in him, that he might keep himself safe and get rich
                        and prosperous. Yet calamity overtook him."
                    The account of the gradual degeneration of the character of Tito Melema is,
                        indeed, the strongest feature in the book. Tito was a man of sunny
                        disposition, who never made himself disagreeable, never boasted of his own
                        doings, was generous in small things, gave others the credit to which they
                        were entitled, and claimed little for himself, was frank and engaging in
                        manners, subtle in thought, supple in conduct, and had an innate love of
                        reticence, which often acted as other impulses do, without any conscious
                        motive. This was the character selected by the author for her story of
                        degradation and ruin.
                    The painter Piero foreshadows the outcome when he desires the face of Tito as
                        a model for his picture of Sinon deceiving old Priam: "A perfect traitor,"
                        says Piero, "should have a face which vice can write no marks on —
                        lips that will lie with a dimpled smile — eyes of such agate-like
                        brightness and depth that no infamy can dull them — cheeks that
                        will rise from a murder and not look haggard."
                    The character of Romola herself is a very interesting one. She is full of
                        womanly dignity and genuine nobility of soul, honorable, proud, self
                        sacrificing, devoted to her duty, but she is too clearheaded  to deceive herself as to her husband's
                        baseness. At first, although her dreams of happiness have not been
                        fulfilled, she makes every excuse; and even afterwards she seeks a return of
                        his confidence. But when that is impossible, her love becomes entirely
                        extinct.
                    Running side by side with the character of Romola, and in sharp contrast to
                        it, is that of Tessa, the innocent peasant girl, with a baby face. In her
                        presence, Melema finds no reproaches, nothing but artless affection. It was
                        pity more than anything else which first induced Tito to take her under his
                        protection, and his relations with her have been developed so unconsciously
                        that there seems very little guilt in each particular act. No doubt the
                        author's purpose was to describe the almost imperceptible steps by which men
                        pass from virtue to crime.
                    "Romola" is a historical novel, and the part of it which deals with
                        Savonarola is history itself, or perhaps more properly biography. George
                        Eliot has not created the character of the Florentine monk; she has merely
                        analyzed and interpreted that character by the light of her own imagination.
                        Whether the man she has thus drawn is the real Savonarola or not, he is a
                        very interesting personage, who, with many inconsistencies and shortcomings,
                        is essentially a great man, as well as a benefactor of mankind. He is often
                        a hero, though he falls short of heroism at the supreme moment; and his last
                        words, written in prison before his execution, the outpouring of
                        self-abasement,  fill us with added sympathy
                        for his misfortunes.
                    "God placed thee," he says," in the midst of the people even as if thou hadst
                        been one of the excellent. In this way thou hast taught others, and hast
                        failed to learn thyself. Thou hast cured others, and thou thyself hast been
                        still diseased. Thy heart was lifted up at the beauty of thy own deeds, and
                        through this thou hast lost thy wisdom, and art become, and shalt be to all
                        eternity, nothing."
                    The psychological development of each of the chief characters in this
                        remarkable book proceeds by a natural law from the antecedents and
                        surroundings of the individual. We feel as we read that the changes of
                        thought and motive must have occurred just as they are described, yet in
                        that description itself it is evident that George Eliot lacks something of
                        dramatic power. She tells us in great detail what her characters think and
                        why they act as they do. The highest form of art would show us this from
                        their own words and actions without the telling. Her characters are often
                        extremely complex. It might be harder to make them speak for themselves than
                        in the case of simpler personages, such as those described by Dickens or
                        Cervantes. Still the reader will often wish that George Eliot had not told
                        him so much of motives and reasons, but had left these to necessary
                        inference.
                    "Romola" is a work not addressed to the great mass of mankind, but to the
                        student. It presupposes  considerable
                        knowledge on the part of the reader of Italian names, customs, and events.
                        It is evidently the product of an elaborate study and of a rather intimate
                        knowledge of Florentine institutions and history. It is essentially accurate
                        in its description of the public events of the time, although there are some
                        facts of minor importance which are not confirmed by the most authentic
                        records.
                    George Eliot follows the chronological and not the logical order in her
                        narrative. There is sometimes a lack of vividness which results from this,
                        and the book as a whole does not impress itself readily on the memory. There
                        are portions of the work which are overloaded with details concerning public
                        ceremonies or historical facts, or illustrating the manners of the people;
                        for instance, the long description of the festival of San Giovanni in the
                        early part of the book. Indeed, the feeling is irrepressible that this work,
                        especially the first half of it, is too prolix, and that unimportant and
                        subsidiary matters becloud in a measure the essential facts upon which the
                        tale depends. In the latter part of the work, however, the dramatic interest
                        of the story becomes more intense, and the narrative proceeds naturally and
                        directly to the double tragedy with which it closes — the death of
                        Melema and the execution of Savonarola.
                    "Romola" is very little like "The Scarlet Letter" either in the scenes or the
                        construction of the plot. It is far more elaborate than the American
                        romance, yet there is a close similarity in the  methods of thought of George Eliot and Nathaniel Hawthorne. The husband
                        of Hester Prynne and the father of Tito Melema appear in the same sinister
                        way, demanding vengeance. Though Florence is very little like the Puritan
                        town, religious fanaticism is a prominent feature in both the stories. The
                        two books leave much the same general impression upon the mind.
                
                
                
                    CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
                    FEODOR DOSTOYEVSKY
                    DOSTOYEVSKY is one of the masters of the Russian realistic school. His best
                        known novel, "Crime and Punishment," is a psychological study of great
                        power. It describes the atrocious murder of two women, an old money lender
                        and her sister, by a young student, Raskolnikoff, and the train of events
                        which afterwards led to the confession of the murderer and his
                        transportation to Siberia.
                    Raskolnikoff has no sufficient motive for the crime, but he is led by the
                        contemplation of Napoleon and other great men who have committed crimes to
                        feel that he, too, is an exceptional creature, authorized to violate all
                        laws of morality, and that he is guilty of no sin in killing the old women.
                        His immediate purpose is robbery, to get the money necessary to prosecute
                        his studies; yet so blunderingly does he go to work that he secures but
                        little, and can make no use of it. The way in which his half crazed,
                        vacillating intellect is finally induced to make a confession, is delineated
                        with great dramatic skill. The examining magistrate, Porphryrius, also an
                        eccentric, certainly shows great ability, not only in discerning the
                        criminal, but in bringing him by gradual steps  into a frame of mind which leads to confession, where there is no other
                        sufficient evidence of guilt.
                    Most of the individuals described in the book are morbid, and some of them
                        are grotesque; yet the reader is impressed with the consciousness that, in
                        spite of inconsistencies and paradoxes, the story must be essentially true
                        to the peculiar nature of the characters described.
                    The maudlin babbling of the drunkard Marmeladoff, giving the story of his
                        debasement and the ruin and dishonor into which he has plunged his family,
                        is just such talk as that kind of a man would indulge in when in liquor, and
                        the picture which it sets before us is revolting, but infinitely pitiful and
                        real. All the dreadful things which happen afterwards in the drunkard's
                        household — his tragical death, the insanity of his wife, and the
                        beggary of their children — lie heavy upon our hearts, while they
                        convince us that we are in a world where such things are realities.
                    In the girl Sonia, the eldest daughter of this household, we have the
                        remarkable spectacle of a self-sacrificing, devoted and beautiful character,
                        who has been constrained by necessity and by pity for her little brothers
                        and sisters into a life of shame.
                    The most incomprehensible person in the story is one Svidrigailoff, an
                        unscrupulous man of the world, given to sensuality, who commits suicide in a
                        most unaccountable way after a nightmare. He is a character which puts at
                        fault all calculations of what a man will do under given circumstances.
                    
                    In strong contrast with the rest of the dramatis personæ,
                        the mother and sister of Raskolnikoff display a dignity, strength of
                        character and womanly tenderness which show us that Dostoyevsky is able to
                        portray a normal and healthy character, a thing which might be otherwise in
                        doubt.
                    This novel, dealing as it does with the submerged tenth of society, contains
                        such a preponderance of repulsive features that it is by no means agreeable,
                        not even desirable, reading for the general public. Its tendency undoubtedly
                        is to generate some of the morbid characteristics it describes.
                
                
                
                    SMOKE
                    IVAN TURGENIEFF
                    I HAVE never quite understood the extravagant praises showered upon
                        Turgenieff by his admirers. A few of his short stories in "A Sportsman's
                        Sketches" are very impressive, but his novels never appeared to me as
                        convincing as those of Tolstoi, nor as vivid as "Dead Souls," by Gogol,
                        though they are more highly finished and more artistic in form. Turgenieff
                        spent most of his life in France, and his works have distinctly a French
                        flavor. "Smoke" offers perhaps the best illustration of his distinguishing
                        characteristics. In the preface to a late edition of this work, a critic
                        declares that it is "in every sense of the word a classic for all time."
                        This estimate seems high, though the book is in many ways a remarkable
                        one.
                    The scene is laid at Baden-Baden, which for a long time was the residence of
                        Turgenieff himself. Here we are introduced to a coterie of Russian
                        "reformers" and "thinkers" of various sorts, who meet at the apartments of
                        Gubaryoff, "a great man," who is writing a great work "about everything" (as
                        the enthusiastic Bambaeff declares), "after the style of Buckle, you know,
                        but more profound—more profound. Everything  will be solved and made clear in it." At this meeting there is
                        a perfect Babel of inane discussion and vociferation.
                    "Madame Suhantchikoff talked about Garibaldi, about a certain Karl
                        Ivanovitch, who had been flogged by the serfs of his own household, about
                        Napoleon III, about women's work, about a merchant, Pleskatchoff, who had
                        designedly caused the death of twelve work-women, and had received a medal
                        for it with the inscription 'for public services'; about the proletariat,
                        about the Georgian Prince Tchuktcheulidzoff, who had shot his wife with a
                        cannon, and about the future of Russia. Pishtchalkin, too, talked of the
                        future of Russia, and of the spirit of monopoly, and of the significance of
                        nationalities, and of how he hated above everything what was vulgar. There
                        was an outburst all of a sudden from Voroshiloff; in a single breath, almost
                        choking himself, he mentioned Draper, Virchow, Shelgunoff, Bichat,
                        Helmholtz, Starr, Stur, Reiminth, Johann Müller the physiologist, and Johann
                        Müller the historian — obviously confounding them — Taine,
                        Renan, Shtchapoff, and then Thomas Nash, Peele, Greene —' What sort
                        of queer fish may they be?' Bambaeff muttered bewildered. 'Shakespeare's
                        predecessors having the same relation to him as the ranges of the Alps to
                        Mont Blanc,' Voroshiloff replied cuttingly, and he too touched on the future
                        of Russia. Bambaeff also spoke of the future of Russia, and even depicted it
                        in glowing colors; but he was thrown into special raptures over the thought
                        of Russian music, in which he saw something. 'Ah! great indeed!' and in
                        confirmation he began humming a song of Varmaloff's, but was soon
                        interrupted by a general shout, 'He is singing the Miserere from the
                        Trovatore, and singing it excruciatingly 
                        too.' One little officer was reciting Russian literature in the midst of the
                        hubbub; another was quoting verses from "The Spark"; but Tit Bindasoff went
                        further; he declared that all these swindlers ought to have their teeth
                        knocked out, . . . and that's all about it, but he did not particularize who
                        were the swindlers alluded to. The smoke from the cigars became stifling;
                        all were hot and exhausted, every one was hoarse, all eyes were growing dim,
                        and the perspiration stood out in drops on every face. Bottles of iced beer
                        was brought in and drunk off instantaneously. 'What was I saying?' remarked
                        one; 'And with whom was I disputing, and about what?' inquired another. And
                        amid all the uproar and the smoke, Gubaryoff walked indefatigably up and
                        down as before, swaying from side to side and twitching at his beard; now
                        listening, turning an ear to some controversy, now putting in a word of his
                        own; and every one was forced to feel that he, Gubaryoff, was the source of
                        it all, that he was the master here, and the most eminent personality."
                    Afterwards we are introduced into high Russian society, whose conduct is
                        perhaps even more ridiculous. On one occasion it amuses itself (under the
                        guidance of an American "medium") in fruitless efforts to mesmerize a crab.
                        In another place, one Potugin, who is the pessimist of the book, dissects
                        the short-comings of Russian character extremely well.
                    The story is a very simple one. Litvinoff, betrothed to Tatyana Shestoff, is
                        lured away by the charms of Irina, a beautiful and attractive creature to
                        whom he had once been betrothed, but who, tempted by the allurements of rank
                        and wealth, had  discarded him. Now again he
                        falls madly in love with her. She promises to leave her husband and to
                        follow him anywhere; but after he has broken his engagement with Tatyana,
                        she fails again, and he betakes himself homeward, deeply impressed with the
                        vanity of human life. His reflections on the journey reveal the theme and
                        motive of the story.
                    "The wind blew facing the train; whitish clouds of steam, some singly, others
                        mingled with other darker clouds of smoke, whirled in endless file past the
                        window at which Litvinoff was sitting. He began to watch this steam, this
                        smoke. Incessantly mounting, rising, falling, twisting and hooking on to the
                        grass, to the bushes, as though in sportive antics, lengthening out, and
                        hiding away, clouds upon clouds flew by . . . they were for ever changing
                        and stayed still the same in their monotonous, hurrying, wearisome sport!
                        Sometimes the wind changed, the line bent to right or left, and suddenly the
                        whole mass vanished, and at once reappeared at the opposite window; then
                        again the huge tail was flung out, and again it veiled Litvinoff's view of
                        the vast plain of the Rhine. He gazed and gazed, and a strange reverie came
                        over him . . . He was alone in the compartment; there was no one to disturb
                        him. 'Smoke, smoke,' he repeated several times; and suddenly it all seemed
                        as smoke to him, everything, his own life, Russian life —
                        everything human, especially everything Russian. 'All smoke and steam,' he
                        thought; 'all seems for ever changing, on all sides new forms, phantoms
                        flying after phantoms, while in reality it is all the same and the same
                        again; everything hurrying, flying towards something, and everything
                        vanishing without a trace, attaining to nothing;  another wind blows, and all is dashing in the opposite
                        direction, and there again the same untiring, restless — and
                        useless gambols!'"
                    At last, however, after some years devoted to conscientious labor upon his
                        own estate, Litvinoff's engagement with Tatyana is renewed.
                    Certainly the character of Irina is well drawn. There is such a mixture of
                        actual sincerity and deep passion in her intrigues, such a proud contempt
                        for the petty world around her, such a charming humility in her momentary
                        repentance, that it is no wonder Litvinoff yields. There is a striking
                        similarity between this fair creature and Beatrix in "Henry Esmond," though
                        one can not but feel that the great English novelist has drawn his heroine
                        with a more skilful hand. It is said that one of the mistresses of Alexander
                        II furnished the model for Irina.
                    In describing Tatyana Shestoff, the author gives us in a very few words a
                        charming picture of womanly dignity and reserve, especially in the scene
                        where Litvinoff tries to tell her that he no longer loves her.
                    Occasionally, in sketching his characters, Turgenieff can set before you in a
                        short sentence a very lively picture. Take for instance, the following
                        description of Bambaeff:
                    "He was no longer young; he had a flabby nose and soft cheeks, that looked as
                        if they had been boiled, dishevelled greasy locks, and a fat squat person.
                        Everlastingly  short of cash, everlastingly in
                        raptures over something, Rostislaff Bambaeff wandered, aimless but
                        exclamatory, over the face of our long-suffering mother-earth."
                
                
                
                    LORNA DOONE
                    RICHARD BLACKMORE
                    HOW much the apparent merit of a book depends upon the mood in which we
                        peruse it! When I first read "Lorna Doone" I went over it rapidly, anxious
                        to extract the meat of it as quickly as possible; and while I found many
                        quaint observations and poetical descriptions, the style was diffuse and
                        sometimes crabbed, the narrative was often tedious, and to my mind the book
                        was lacking in fidelity to truth and deep knowledge of human nature. The
                        love passages seemed particularly weak, and I found it hard to understand
                        how a dull-witted countryman, such as John Ridd declares himself to be,
                        could write so well and so ill in different places.
                    But "Lorna Doone" must not be read in that way. When I took it up a second
                        time, lingering over some of the more striking portions of it and no longer
                        disturbing myself about the plot, I found it quite different from what it
                        had seemed to me at first. It is a story unlike any other, and with a charm
                        which is all its own. The deliberate minuteness of the narrative interferes
                        indeed with the action of the characters and the dramatic power of the tale
                        — it is hard to seize the salient points in it; it seems lacking in
                        perspective; the picture is  like one of the
                        very old masters, to be studied more in detail than as a whole. The
                        characterization of most of the personages is not very striking, and yet
                        there is one that is finely drawn — that of John Ridd himself; for
                        it is he, and not Lorna, who is the chief personage of the story. Here the
                        archaic diction, the homespun phrases, the Anglo-Saxon vocabulary, and the
                        quaint philosophy show very plainly the essential characteristics of the
                        narrator, a modest, sturdy, honest, bighearted farmer, Herculean, slow in
                        speech and in wrath, but terrible when aroused. The roots of his character
                        are planted deep in the soil. "I feel," he says, "with every blade of grass
                        as if it had a history, and make a child of every bud, as if it knew and
                        loved me." He is a lover both of nature and his kind, such a man in a
                        smaller sphere as our Lincoln must have been. What wonderful descriptions of
                        farm life, of the ducks, the pigs, the horses, the birds, as well as of
                        natural phenomena, the sunsets, the deep Doone valley, the great snowstorm
                        which buried all the earth!
                    Many of the scenes are admirably described, as where he watches the passing
                        of the bandits along the Doone track and sees the figure of the little girl
                        thrown across the saddle; the murder of his father by the outlaws and his
                        mother's solitary visit to the stronghold of the murderers in vain quest of
                        justice; his first expedition to the Doone Valley, and his meeting with the
                        beautiful girl who afterwards becomes his wife; his interview with the
                        terrible Chief Justice Jeffreys,  whose eyes
                        "were holes for the devil to glare from"; and, finest of all, the sad story
                        told by Benita, the Italian maid, of the fate of Lorna's parents and the
                        attack upon the coach when Lorna was carried away. Such excellences are more
                        than enough to redeem the tediousness of the less important parts of the
                        book, and to entitle it to a high as well as a unique place in
                        literature.
                
                
                
                    ANNA KARENINA
                    LYOF TOLSTOI
                    THERE are a few great works, both in art and literature, which impress us not
                        so much by their beauty as by their compelling power. No one can listen to
                        the "Ring of the Nibelungs" without feeling the hand of a master in the
                        creation of the harmonies it contains. No one can look on the figures
                        painted by Michael Angelo on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel without a
                        sense of awe in the presence of forms of such majesty and power. The
                        nameless bronze by St. Gaudens, known as the Adams Monument, in the Rock
                        Creek Cemetery at Washington will impose silence upon a chattering group of
                        visitors the moment they enter the enclosure of evergreens that surrounds
                        it. The rage of Othello and the horror of Macbeth make us shudder whether we
                        will or no. Dante has the same commanding power over his readers.
                    Among the writers of fiction there is none who impress us in this way more
                        profoundly than Tolstoi. His novels are often quite formless. There is no
                        carefully developed plot, as with Scott or Wilkie Collins. The characters
                        are by no means so strongly marked, they are neither so admirable nor so
                        detestable as those of  Dickens or of Victor
                        Hugo. There is little humor in the narrative. The conversation is seldom
                        brilliant, and is sometimes tedious. The style has no ornamentation, yet its
                        very simplicity commands, and while we read we feel that we are in the hands
                        of a master.
                    Probably no one since Shakespeare has had the power of penetrating the
                        springs of human thought and action more accurately than Tolstoi. He
                        startles us with revelations of traits in our own character which we have
                        never realized, or instants in our own linves which we have never re-called
                        before and which we recognize at once when we see them upon his pages, so
                        that at every turn we exclaim, "How true that is! I have known that myself!"
                        He is the greatest of all realists — not a mere photographer, for
                        the photographer reproduces the insignificant and the unessential. Tolstoi
                        gives us no long preliminary descriptions of persons or things, such as we
                        find in Balzac or Walter Scott, but the really suggestive fact or trait
                        appears at the right moment and gives a vividness and reality to the picture
                        which no detailed account could ever convey.
                    A mother is teaching her son. "The boy was reading aloud, but at the same
                        time twisting and trying to pull from his vest a button that was hanging
                        loose. His mother had many times reproved him, but the plump little hand
                        kept returning to the button. At last she had to take the button off and put
                        it in her pocket. 'Keep your hands still, Grisha,' said she, and again took
                        up the bedquilt  on which she had long been at
                        work and which always came handy at trying moments. She worked nervously,
                        jerking her fingers and counting the stitches."
                    In another place a father is instructing his child. "The lesson consisted of
                        a recitation of several verses of the Gospel and the review of the first
                        part of the Old Testament. The lesson went fairly well, but suddenly the boy
                        was struck by the appearance of his father's forehead, which made almost a
                        right angle near the temples, and he gave the end of the verses entirely
                        wrong. The father concluded he did not understand what he was reciting and
                        was vexed."
                    The leader in a ball room pays a compliment to his partner. "'It is restful
                        to dance with you,' said he, as he fell into the slow measures of the waltz.
                        'Charming! Such lightness! such precision!' This is what he said to almost
                        all his dancing acquaintances."
                    These slight touches give a better idea of what takes place than many words.
                        The descriptions, as we have observed, are few and brief, but how graphic
                        are they in their simple statements!
                    The visit of Levin, the country proprietor, to his stable to see a cow which
                        has just calved is thus narrated. "Crossing the courtyard, where the snow
                        was heaped under the lilac bushes, he stepped up to the stable. As he opened
                        the door, which creaked on its frosty hinges, he was met by the warm,
                        penetrating breath from the stalls, and the cattle, astonished at the
                        unwonted  light of the lantern, turned around
                        from their beds of fresh straw. The shiny black and white face of his
                        Holland cow gleamed in the obscurity. Berkut, the bull, with a ring in his
                        nose, tried to get to his feet but changed his mind and only snorted when
                        they approached his stanchion. The beautiful Pava, huge as a hippopotamus,
                        was lying near her calf, snuffing at it and protecting it with her back as
                        with a rampart from those who would come too close.
                    "Levin entered the stall, examined Pava, and lifted the calf, spotted with
                        red and white, on its long, awkward legs. Pava bellowed with anxiety, but
                        was reassured when the calf was restored to her and began to lick it with
                        her rough tongue. The calf hid its nose under its mother's side and frisked
                        its tail."
                    No one has ever described the coming of Spring more vividly yet more simply
                        than Tolstoi. "It snowed on Easter Sunday. Then suddenly on the following
                        day a south wind blew up, the clouds drifted over, and for three days and
                        three nights a warm and heavy rain fell ceaselessly. On Thursday the wind
                        went down, and then over the earth was spread a thick gray mist, as if to
                        conceal the mysteries that were accomplishing in nature: the ice in every
                        direction was melting and disappearing; the rivers overflowed their banks;
                        the brooks came tumbling down with foamy, muddy waters. Towards evening the
                        Red hill began to show through the fog, the clouds drifted away like white
                        sheep, and Spring in reality was there in all 
                        her brilliancy. Next morning a bright sun melted away the thin scales of ice
                        which still remained, and the warm atmosphere grew moist with the vapors
                        rising from the earth. The dry grass immediately took a greenish tint, and
                        the young blades began to peep from the sod like millions of tiny needles.
                        The buds on the birch trees, the gooseberry bushes, and the snow-ball trees
                        swelled with sap, and around their branches swarms of honey bees buzzed in
                        the sun. Invisible larks sent forth their songs of joy to see the prairies
                        free from snow. The lapwings seemed to mourn their marshes, submerged by the
                        stormy waters. The wild swans and geese flew high in the air, with their
                        calls of spring. The cows, with rough hair and places worn bare by the
                        stanchions, lowed as they left their stalls. Around the heavy, flossy sheep
                        gambolled awkwardly the young lambs. Children ran barefoot over wet paths,
                        where their footprints were left like fossils. The peasant women gossiped
                        gaily around the edge of the pond where they were bleaching their linen.
                        From all sides resounded the axes of the peasants, repairing their plows and
                        their wagons. Spring had really come."
                    The shattering of an ideal by a single word of disparagement is thus shown
                        when a young girl hears from her father that the pious Madame Stahl, whom
                        she had idolized, kept her bed because one leg was shorter than the other
                        and she did not wish it noticed. "Her ideal of holiness, as seen in Madame
                        Stahl, which she had for a  whole month
                        carried in her soul, had irrevocably disappeared, as a face seen in a
                        garment thrown down by chance disappears when one really sees how the
                        garment is lying. She retained only the image of a lame woman who stayed in
                        bed to conceal her deformity, and who tormented poor Varenka because her
                        plaid was not arranged to suit her, and it became impossible for her
                        imagination to bring back to her the remembrance of the former Madame
                        Stahl."
                    How could domestic discomfort be better pictured than when a mother, with her
                        six children, arrives at her country home and undergoes the following
                        tribulations:
                    "The roof was leaking, the water dripped in the corridor and the nursery, and
                        the little beds had to be brought down into the parlor. It was impossible to
                        find a cook. Among the nine cows in the barn, according to the dairy-woman's
                        report, some were going to calve and the rest were either too young or too
                        old, and consequently they could not have butter, or even milk for the
                        children. Not an egg was to be had; it was impossible to find a hen. They
                        had for roasting or broiling one tough old purple rooster. No women were to
                        be found to do the washing; all were at work in the fields. They could not
                        drive because one of the horses was balky and would not be harnessed. They
                        had to give up bathing because the bank of the river had been trodden into a
                        quagmire by the cattle, and, moreover, it was too conspicuous. . . . Walking
                        near the  house was not pleasant because the
                        tumble-down fences let the cattle into the garden and there was in the herd
                        a terrible bull that bellowed and was reported to be ugly. In the house
                        there was not a clothes-press. The closet doors either would not shut or
                        flew open when any one passed. In the kitchen there were no pots or kettles;
                        in the laundry there were no tubs, nor even any scrubbing-boards for the
                        girls."
                    Nowhere, perhaps, in all literature, is a hunting expedition so graphically
                        described as in the account of the party that set forth from Levin's. The
                        feelings of the hunters and of the dogs themselves are given with quiet but
                        convincing realism.
                    It may be doubted whether some of Tolstoi's shorter works are not more
                        artistic productions than either of his two long novels. To take the single
                        instance of a rather common-place official who falls ill and dies and to
                        make out of it the terrible tragedy of "Ivan Ilytch" requires, perhaps, even
                        higher powers than to give such variegated pictures of life as appear in
                        "War and Peace" or in "Anna Karenina." Yet the latter novel, being
                        many-sided and comprehensive, is perhaps his most representative, as it is
                        certainly his best known work, and it must justly be ranked as among the
                        very foremost of the masterpieces of fiction.
                    The book opens with an account of the confusion in the house of the Oblonskys
                        when the easy-going and good-tempered Prince Stepan is detected by his wife
                        Dolly in an intrigue with the  French
                        governess, and whose "stupid smile" when confronted with the letter that
                        betrays him, "causes the whole trouble." The Prince can not really repent
                        and persuade himself that he loves his wife, whose charms have faded; he
                        regrets only that he had not hid the thing more adroitly, and his sister
                        Anna is called from Petersburg to Moscow to secure a reconciliation.
                        Although he was entirely wrong, almost every one in the house was on his
                        side, except his little girl, who knew only that there was trouble and that
                        her mother was unhappy and who blushed for her father when he asked her so
                        lightly after her mother's welfare, until he too blushed when he perceived
                        it. About the same time Levin, the country proprietor, also comes to Moscow
                        to woo Kitty, the younger sister of the unfortunate wife. He had fallen in
                        love successively with each of the daughters of the house, but his affection
                        was now centered on the youngest, whom he deemed a creature so accomplished
                        that he scarcely dared aspire to her hand. They had been old friends for
                        many years, but Kitty had then another admirer, one Vronsky, a brilliant
                        young officer, to whom at the moment her preference was given and Levin's
                        blunt offer was rejected. But Vronsky, who had gone to the railway station
                        to meet his mother (whom he did not love and to whom for that very reason he
                        was all the more conventionally considerate) found her in company with Anna
                        Karenina, who had come to Moscow to compose Dolly's troubles with her
                        husband.  Anna is the beautiful and
                        accomplished wife of Karenin, an estimable but matter-of-fact Russian
                        official, greatly her senior in age, who was making for himself an enviable
                        career in the public service. At the station and afterwards at a ball Anna
                        meets the young officer, and the two instantly fall in love with each other
                        with a passion so deep and lasting that it can not afterwards be
                        extinguished. This passion is at first, however, expressed only by
                        inferences. Thus, an accident occurs at the station; a train-hand is
                        crushed, and a pitiful scene described when the widow perceives his dead
                        body; Vronsky leaves two hundred roubles for her relief, an act which Anna
                        sees and feels that it "concerns herself too closely." Anna composes
                        successfully the domestic trouble between Prince Stepan and his wife, and
                        here, too, the complete reconciliation appears in the chiding and ironical
                        banter renewed between the pair rather than from any express
                        acknowledgment.
                    But Anna, who has thus healed the wound in her brother's household, has torn
                        open one far more fatal in her own. Vronsky, who has neglected Kitty for the
                        brilliant creature in whom his whole soul is now absorbed, meets Anna again
                        at the station as she leaves. "I came simply for this, to be where you are,"
                        he said. "I could not do otherwise." Her eyes belied the remonstrance that
                        she forced to her lips, and when she returned to Petersburg, where her
                        husband was waiting for her, her first thought as she gazed on his really
                        distinguished face was, "Good Lord!  Why are
                        his ears so long?" When Vronsky afterwards meets her at a drawing-room in
                        that city and she has forbidden him to speak of love, she feels that by the
                        very use of the word "forbidden" she has recognized a certain jurisdiction
                        over him which has encouraged him to speak.
                    Her husband, who had noticed that others were observing the tête-à-tête between his wife and the handsome officer, resolved to
                        admonish her. "'Anna, I must put you on your guard.'
                    "'On my guard? Why?' She looked at him so gayly, so innocently, that for any
                        one who did not know her as her husband did the tone of her voice would have
                        sounded perfectly natural, but for him, who knew that he could not deviate
                        from the least of his habits without her asking the reason, who knew that
                        her first impulse was always to tell him of her pleasures and her sorrows,
                        the fact that Anna took special pains not to observe his agitation, or even
                        to speak, was very significant to him. He felt by the very tone that she
                        assumed that she had said openly and without dissimulation, 'Well, thus it
                        must be, and from henceforth.' He felt like a man who should come home and
                        find his house barricaded against him. . . .
                    "'Your rather too lively conversation this evening with Count Vronsky
                        attracted attention.' As he spoke he looked at Anna's laughing eyes, for him
                        so impenetrable, and saw with a feeling of terror all the idleness and
                        uselessness of his words.  . . . . He
                        trembled; again he twisted his fingers till the knuckles cracked.
                    "'I beg of you, keep your hands still; I detest that,' said she.
                    "'Anna, is this you?' he said, trying to control himself and stop the
                        movement of his hands."
                    When he declares that he loves her a frown passes over her face. The word
                        irritates her.
                    "'Love!' she thought; 'does he even know what it means!' And when they
                        retired she waited long without moving, expecting that he would speak to
                        her, but he said nothing. Then the image of another filled her with emotion
                        and with guilty joy. Suddenly she heard a slow and regular sound of snoring.
                        'Too late! Too late!' she thought, with a smile. She remained for a long
                        time thus, motionless, with open eyes, the shining of which it seemed to her
                        she herself could see. From this night a new life began for Karenin and his
                        wife. There was no outward sign of it. Anna continued to go into society,
                        and everywhere she met Vronsky. Karenin understood it, but was powerless to
                        prevent it. Whenever he tried to bring about an explanation she met him with
                        humorous surprise which was beyond his penetration."
                    Another incident revealed to him still more clearly the terrible truth. A
                        hurdle race at which Vronsky rode is described with a realism of which
                        Tolstoi only is the master. Anna's husband observes her while she watches
                        the contest in which her lover is involved. "Her face was pale and  stern. Nothing existed for her beyond the one
                        person whom she was watching. Her hands convulsively clutched her fan. She
                        held her breath. . . . . He did not wish to look at her, but his gaze was
                        irresistibly drawn to her face, whereon he read only too plainly and with
                        feelings of horror all that he had tried to ignore." When others fell in the
                        race he saw that those were not the ones on whom her gaze was riveted. "The
                        more he studied her face the greater became his shame. Absorbed as she was
                        in her interest in Vronsky's course, Anna was conscious that her husband's
                        cold eyes were upon her, and she turned around toward him for an instant
                        questioningly and with a slight frown. 'Ah! I don't care,' she seemed to say
                        as she turned her glass to the race. She did not look at him again. The race
                        was disastrous. Out of the seventeen riders more than half were thrown, and
                        at last Vronsky fell. The terror caused by this was so universal that Anna's
                        cry of horror caused no astonishment, but her face continued to show more
                        lively symptoms of her anxiety. She lost her presence of mind; she tried to
                        escape like a bird caught in a snare. Her husband hastened to her and
                        offered her his arm.
                    "'Come, if it is your wish to go,' he said in French; but she did not heed
                        him, and gazed at the place where Vronsky had fallen. Her husband offered
                        his arm again, and she drew back with aversion."
                    At last, however, she feels compelled to accompany  him to the carriage, and on the way home he reproves her.
                    "'You have behaved improperly, and I would ask you not to let this happen
                        again.'
                    "She heard only half of his words; she felt overwhelmed with fear; and she
                        thought only of Vronsky, and whether he was killed. . . . . She looked at
                        her husband with an ironical smile, and answered not a word, because she had
                        not noticed what he said. At first he had spoken boldly; but as he saw
                        clearly what he was speaking about, the terror which possessed her seized
                        him. At first her smile led him into a strange mistake. 'She is amused at my
                        suspicions! She is going to tell me now that they are groundless; that this
                        is absurd.' Such an answer he longed to hear: he was so afraid that his
                        suspicions would be confirmed, that he was ready to believe any thing she
                        might say. But the expression of her gloomy and frightened face allowed no
                        further chance of falsehood.
                    "'Possibly I am mistaken,' said he: 'in that case, I beg you to forgive
                        me.'
                    "'No, you are not mistaken,' she replied, with measured words, casting a look
                        of despair on her husband's icy face. 'You are not mistaken: I hear you, but
                        I am thinking only of him. I love him. I have been false to you. I cannot
                        endure you, I fear you, I hate you! Do with me as you please!' And, throwing
                        herself into the bottom of the carriage, she covered her face with her
                        hands, and burst into tears." . . .
                    
                    "No one except Karenin's most intimate friends suspected that this apparently
                        cold and rational man had one weakness absolutely contradictory to the
                        general consistency of his character. He could not look on with indifference
                        when a child or a woman was weeping. The sight of tears caused him to lose
                        his self-control, and destroyed for him his reasoning faculties.
                    "Karenin in spite of his anger against his wife could not forget the feeling
                        which her weeping caused, and in his effort to control himself his face
                        assumed an appearance of deathlike rigidity. When he reached home he
                        deliberated upon his course. He thought of a duel, but as he was a timid
                        man, he discarded it. He knew that 'his friends would never allow him to
                        fight and permit the life of a government official so indispensable to
                        Russia to be exposed to danger.' The service of the state, always important,
                        assumed unwonted magnitude. As to divorce, public scandal would cause him to
                        fall in public opinion. Separation was equally impossible. His only course
                        was to keep his wife under his protection, doing what he could to break off
                        her illicit relationship with Vronsky and preserving in every way possible
                        his ostensible relations with her. 'Only by acting in this manner,' he
                        thought to himself, 'did he conform with the laws of religion, refusing to
                        send away his guilty wife and consecrating his powers to her regeneration.'
                        He had not thought of finding a foothold in religion until he had settled
                        the matter upon other grounds, then this 
                        sanction gave him full comfort and satisfaction."
                    But the illicit relations continued and the scandal grew, until at last
                        divorce seemed to him the only remedy, and he began to make preparations for
                        the suit, but from this project he was recalled by a telegram from his wife
                        that she was dying and would die easier if she had his forgiveness. When he
                        reached his home, the Swiss opened the door even before Karenin rang the
                        bell; dressed in an old coat and slippers.
                    "'How is the baruina!'
                    "'She is as comfortable as could be expected.'
                    "Karenin turned very pale; he realized how deeply he had hoped for her
                        death." . . .
                    "A uniform overcoat hung in the hall. Karenin noticed it, and
                        asked,—
                    "'Who is here?'
                    "'The doctor, the nurse, and Count Vronsky.'
                    "Karenin went into the drawing-room. There was nobody there; but the sound of
                        his steps brought the nurse, in a cap with lilac ribbons, out of the boudoir. She came to Karenin, and, taking him by the hand
                        with the familiarity that the approach of death permits, led him into the
                        sleeping-room.
                    "'Thank the Lord that you have come! She talks of nothing but you; always of
                        you,' she said.
                    "'Bring some ice quick!' said the imperative voice of the doctor from the
                        chamber.
                    "In the boudoir, sitting on a little low chair, Karenin saw
                        Vronsky weeping, his face covered with his hands. He started at the sound of
                        the  doctor's voice, uncovered his face, and
                        found himself in the presence of Karenin. The sight of him disturbed him so
                        much that he sank down in his chair, as if he wanted to disappear out of
                        sight; then, making a great effort, he rose, and said,—
                    "'She is dying: the doctors say that there is no hope. I am in your power.
                        Only allow me to remain here. I will conform to your wishes in every other
                        respect. I '—
                    "When he saw Vronsky in tears, Karenin felt the involuntary tenderness that
                        the sufferings of others always caused him: he turned away his head without
                        replying, and went to the door."
                    "Karenin's wrinkled face expressed acute suffering: he wanted to speak, but
                        his lower lip trembled so that he could not utter a word, and his emotion
                        hardly allowed him to glance at his dying wife. He took her hand, and held
                        it between his own. Every time that he turned his head towards her, he saw
                        her eyes fixed on him with a sweetness and a humility that he had never seen
                        there before.
                    "'Wait! you do not know — Wait, wait!' She stopped to collect her
                        thoughts. 'Yes,' she began again, 'yes, yes, yes, this is what I want to
                        say. Do not be astonished. I am always the same, but there is another being
                        within me, whom I fear: it is she who loved him, him, and
                        hated you; and I could not forget what I had once been. Now I am myself,
                        entirely, really myself, and not another. I am dying, I know that I am
                        dying.  . . . One thing only is indispensable
                        to me: forgive me, forgive me wholly! I am a sinner; but Serozha's nurse
                        told me that there was a holy martyr — what was her name?
                        — who was worse than I. I will go to Rome: there is a desert there.
                        I shall not trouble anybody there. I will only take Serozha and my little
                        daughter. No, you cannot forgive me: I know very well that it is impossible.
                        Go away, go away! you are too perfect!'
                    "She held him with one of her burning hands, and pushed him away with the
                        other.
                    "Karenin's emotion became so great that he could no longer control himself.
                        He suddenly felt his emotions change to a moral reconciliation, which seemed
                        like a new and unknown happiness. He had not believed that the Christian
                        law, which he had taken for a guide in life, ordered him to forgive and love
                        his enemies; and yet his soul was filled with love and forgiveness. Kneeling
                        beside the bed, he laid his forehead on her arm, the fever of which burned
                        through the sleeve, and sobbed like a child." . . .
                    "Vronsky came to the side of the bed, and, when he saw Anna, he hid his face
                        in his hands.
                    "'Uncover your face, look at him, he is a saint,' said she. 'Uncover your
                        face, look at him!' she repeated in an irritated manner. 'Karenin, uncover
                        his face: I want to see him.'
                    "Karenin took Vronsky's hands and uncovered his face, disfigured by suffering
                        and humiliation.
                    "'Give him your hand; forgive him.'
                    
                    "Karenin held out his hand to him, without trying to keep back the tears." .
                        . .
                    "'The happiness I feel at being able to forgive, clearly shows me my duty. I
                        offer the other cheek to the smiter: I give my last cloak to him who has
                        robbed me. I only ask one thing of God,—that he will not take away
                        from me this joy of forgiving.'
                    "Tears filled his eyes. Vronsky was amazed at the calm, luminous face.
                    "'These are my feelings. You may drag me in the dust, and make me the
                        laughing-stock of creation; but I will not give up Anna for that, nor will I
                        utter a word of reproach to you,' continued Karenin. 'My duty seems clear
                        and plain to me: I must remain with her; I shall remain with her. If she
                        wishes to see you, I shall inform you of it; but now I think it will be
                        better for you to go away.'
                    "Karenin rose: sobs choked his voice. Vronsky rose too, and, standing with
                        bowed head and humble attitude, looked up at Karenin, without a word to say.
                        He was incapable of understanding Karenin's feelings, but he felt that such
                        magnanimity was above him, and irreconcilable with his conception of
                        life."
                    But Anna recovers, and her old guilty love for Vronsky returns. She flees
                        with him to other countries in Europe, but the tumult in her soul will not
                        subside and social ostracism confronts her everywhere. She returns with
                        Vronsky and lives for a time on his estates in Russia, and there are  brief intervals of happiness. Dolly visits
                        her and finds that "Anna was all aglow with that elusive beauty which comes
                        to a woman through the assurance of love returned. Her smiles which, as it
                        were, flew over her face, her brilliant eyes, her graceful and quick
                        motions, her voice, her whole person, from the dimples of her cheeks and the
                        curve of her lip, with its full, rich sounds, and even the quiet, friendly
                        manner in which she replied to a visitor who asked permission to mount her
                        horse, was instinct with a seductive charm. It seemed as if she herself knew
                        it, and was pleased."
                    But this is for a moment. In spite of her passion and the constant devotion
                        of her lover quarrels continually arise, jealousies, the fear of
                        abandonment, and at last the desire for revenge upon one who she unjustly
                        imagines is false or indifferent. Her final resolution is suicide, "to make
                        him repent." She accomplishes her purpose at a railway station under the
                        same conditions as those when she first met her lover.
                    "Suddenly she remembered the man who was run over on the day when she saw
                        Vronsky for the first time, and she knew then what was in store for her.
                        With light and swift steps she descended the stairway which led from the
                        pump at the end of the platform down to the rails, and stood very near the
                        train, which was slowly passing by. She looked under the cars, at the chains
                        and the brake, and the high iron wheels, and she tried to estimate with her
                        eye the distance between the fore and  back
                        wheels, and the moment when the middle would be in front of her.
                    "'There,' she said, looking at the shadow of the car thrown upon the black
                        coal-dust which covered the sleepers, 'there, in the center, he will be
                        punished, and I shall be delivered from it all,— and from
                        myself.'
                    "Her little red travelling-bag caused her to lose the moment when she could
                        throw herself under the wheels of the first car: she could not detach it
                        from her arm. She awaited the second. A feeling like that she had
                        experienced once, just before taking a dive in the river, came over her, and
                        she made the sign of the cross. This familiar gesture called back to her
                        soul memories of youth and childhood. Life, with its elusive joys, glowed
                        for an instant before her, but she did not take her eyes from the car; and
                        when the middle, between the two wheels, appeared, she threw away her red
                        bag, drawing her head between her shoulders, and, with outstretched hands,
                        threw herself on her knees under the car. She had time to feel afraid.
                        'Where am I? What am I doing? Why?' thought she, trying to draw back; but a
                        great, inflexible mass struck her head, and threw her upon her back. 'Lord,
                        forgive me all!' she murmured, feeling the struggle to be in vain. . . .And
                        the candle by which she read, as in a book, the fulfilment of her life's
                        work, of its deceptions, its grief, and its torment, flared up with greater
                        brightness than she had ever known, revealing to her all that before was in
                        darkness,  then flickered, grew faint, and
                        went out forever."
                    Side by side with this tragedy of unlawful passion, the scenes alternating
                        every few chapters, is the development of the normal love of Levin for
                        Kitty, in scenes which are believed to have been taken from the life of
                        Tolstoi himself. Strange to say that, if this be so, the passages of his own
                        experience are less impressive (if not less realistic) than his imaginative
                        story of the guilty pair. There are long and inconsequent discussions of
                        agrarian problems, and a revelation of Levin's varying moods, which are,
                        indeed, extremely true to life, but awaken less sympathy or interest than
                        the drama between Anna and Vronsky. Levin proposes to Kitty again, rather
                        awkwardly, one would say, with chalk initials written on a card table, the
                        meaning of which she guesses and answers in kind, an answer which he readily
                        devines. Before their marriage he makes to her a full written confession of
                        all the shortcomings of his past life. She is not at all alarmed or startled
                        at his declaration of religious unbelief, but certain passages revealing
                        past immoralities impress her as "terrible." He finds her in tears, and she
                        reproaches him for showing it to her, yet grants him forgiveness. The
                        wedding is graphically described, especially the incident which shows the
                        bridegroom "ramping with despair like a wild beast in its cage" while the
                        people were waiting in church, because he could not find his shirt. Then
                        comes the honeymoon, in which he finds that 
                        married life was utterly different from his dreams.
                    "His surprise was great to find this charming and poetic Kitty, thinking,
                        planning, taking charge of the linen, the furniture, the mattresses, the
                        table service, the kitchen. The decided way in which she refused to travel,
                        so that they might come immediately to their country home, and her
                        willingness to let it be known that she knew something about domestic
                        economy, and could think of such things in spite of her love, had struck him
                        even during their engagement. It vexed him then, and now he felt still more
                        vexed to find that she cared for these wearisome minutiae and the material
                        side of life. But he saw that it was unavoidable."
                    Their early quarrels are delineated with convincing realism, and perhaps the
                        strongest chapters in this part of the work are those in which he describes
                        Kitty's insistence on going with him to visit his profligate brother,
                        Nikolai, who is dying with consumption and in great poverty, being tended
                        only by a poor creature who had long lived with him as his wife. Levin at
                        first refused to allow her to go, declaring it impossible.
                    "'I tell you, if you go, I am going too. I shall certainly go with you,' said
                        she with angry determination. 'I should like to know why it would be
                        impossible. Why did you say that?'
                    "'Because God knows when or in what place I shall find him, or by what means
                        I shall reach him. You would only hinder me,' said he, doing his best to
                        retain his self-control.
                    
                    "'Not at all, I don't need anything. Where you can go, I can go, too, and
                        '—
                    "'Well! If it were only because of this woman, with whom you cannot come in
                        contact'—
                    "'Why not? I know nothing about all that, and don't want to know. I know that
                        my husband's brother is dying; that my husband is going to see him; and I am
                        going too'—
                    "'Kitty! don't be angry! and remember that in such a serious time it is
                        painful for me to have you add to my grief by showing your weakness,
                        — the fear of being alone. If you are lonely, go to Moscow
                        '—
                    "'You always ascribe to me that I have such miserable
                        sentiments,' she cried, choking with tears of vexation. 'I am not so weak. .
                        . . I know it is my duty to be with my husband when he is in sorrow, and you
                        want to wound me on purpose. You don't want to take me '—
                    "'Ah! this is frightful! to be such a slave!' cried Levin, rising from the
                        table, no longer able to hide his anger.
                    "'Why, then, did you get married? You might have been free. Why — if
                        you repent already? '— and Kitty fled from the room.
                    "When he went to find her, she was sobbing.
                    "He began to speak, striving to find words, not to persuade her, but to calm
                        her. She would not listen, and did not allow one of his arguments. He bent
                        over her, took one of her recalcitrant hands, kissed it, kissed her hair,
                        and then her hands again; but still she refused to speak. But  when, at length, he took her head between his
                        two hands and called her, 'Kitty,' she softly wept, and the reconciliation
                        was complete."
                    He found his brother suffering, amid squalid and sordid surroundings. Levin
                        was struck with the uncleanliness and disorder of the room, and the bad air
                        and the sick man's groans, and it seemed to him that there was no hope. It
                        did not occur to him to investigate how his poor limbs were lying, under the
                        coverlid, to try to comfort him materially, and if he could not improve his
                        condition, at least to make the best of a bad situation. The mere thought of
                        these details made a cold chill run down his back; and the sick man, feeling
                        instinctively that his brother was powerless to help him, was irritated. So
                        Levin kept leaving the room under various pretexts, and coming back
                        again,— unhappy to be with his brother, still more unhappy to be
                        away from him, and unable to stay alone by himself.
                    "Kitty saw these things under a very different light: as soon as she came
                        near the dying man, she was filled with pity for him, and instead of feeling
                        fear or repulsion, her womanly heart moved her to seek every means of
                        ameliorating his sad condition. Convinced that it was her duty to help him,
                        she did not doubt the possibility of making him more comfortable, and she
                        set herself to work without delay. The details which repelled her husband
                        were the very ones which attracted her attention. She sent for a doctor, she
                        went to the drug store; she set her maid and Marya Nikolayevna  to sweeping, washing, and dusting, and she
                        helped them herself. She had all needless articles carried away, and she had
                        them replaced by things that were needed. Without minding those whom she met
                        on the way, she came and went from her room to her brother-in-law's,
                        unpacking the articles that were necessary,— cloths, pillow-cases,
                        towels, nightshirts. . . .
                    "'Go and get a little flask out of my bag, and bring it to me,' she said to
                        her husband. 'In the meantime we will finish fixing him.'
                    "When Levin came back with the flask, the invalid was lying down in bed, and
                        everything about him had assumed a different appearance. Instead of the
                        stuffy air which they were breathing before, Kitty was perfuming the room
                        with aromatic vinegar from an atomizer. The dust was all gone; a carpet was
                        spread under the bed; on a little table were arranged the medicine vials, a
                            carafe, the necessary linen, and Kitty's English
                        embroidery. On another table, near the bed, stood a candle, his medicine,
                        and powders. The sick man, bathed, with smoothly brushed hair, lying between
                        clean sheets, and propped up by several pillows, was dressed in a clean
                        nightshirt, the white collar of which came around his extraordinarily long,
                        thin neck. A new expression of hope shone in his eyes as he looked at Kitty.
                        . . .
                    "'He has hidden it from the wise, and revealed it unto children and fools,'
                        thought Levin as he was talking with his wife a little while later."
                    The description of the sufferings and death of 
                        Nikolai are given with a fidelity to truth which must commend itself to all
                        those who have witnessed the last days of agony in those who are near to
                        them.
                    We are now led on to another scene of Tolstoi's realism, the birth of his
                        first child, and here, too, every detail — the cheerfulness of the
                        young wife amid her suffering, the terror, anxiety, and utter uselessness of
                        the husband upon this critical occasion — were never set forth with
                        greater power. Tolstoi writes very freely upon subjects in regard to which
                        we English-speaking people deal with restraint and much false modesty, so
                        that his plain-speaking is quite startling to us as we read.
                    In the later pages of the book are described the conversion of Levin
                        (probably Tolstoi himself) to that religious faith which became the
                        controlling force of his life. Evidently he had not advanced very far when
                        the book closed, for this religious regeneration did not materially change
                        his nature for the better nor make him so happy as he hoped, and he thus
                        concludes: "I shall probably continue to be vexed with Ivan the coachman,
                        and get into useless discussions, and express my thoughts blunderingly. I
                        shall always be blaming my wife for what annoys me, and repenting at once. I
                        shall always feel a certain barrier between the sanctuary of my inmost soul,
                        and the souls of others, even my wife's. I shall continue to pray without
                        being able to explain to myself why, but my inward life has conquered its
                        liberty. It will  be no longer at the mercy of
                        circumstances; and my whole life, every moment of my life, will be, not
                        meaningless as before, but full of deep meaning, which I shall have power to
                        impress on every action."
                    In "Anna Karenina" the contrast is very strong between the two pairs, Anna
                        and Vronsky on the one hand, and Levin and Kitty on the other, between the
                        course of illicit and of lawful love. Yet one can not lay down the book
                        without feeling that the concluding chapters have fallen off a little in
                        power from those that had preceded them. But despite its prolixity and thus
                        weakening at its close Anna Karenina is entitled to a place beside the very
                        best that human genius has accomplished in the literature of fiction.
                
                
                
                    TREASURE ISLAND
                    ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
                    AS a story of pure adventure, "Treasure Island" stands in the very first
                        rank. The plot is admirably conceived.
                    The novel opens with a description of "Bones," an old buccaneer who comes
                        with his strong seachest to the "Admiral Benbow" inn, singing the refrain
                        which reappears in many places through the story: 
                            
                                "Fifteen men on the dead man's chest,
                                Yo! ho! ho! and a bottle of rum!"
                            
                        
                    
                    His main purpose is to avoid observation, but he is at last discovered by
                        some of his former comrades whose object is to get possession of his chest
                        and the chart that is in it. This chart describes a place of buried
                        treasure. Bones, who has been drinking himself to death, expires just before
                        an attack upon the house by his fellow bandits. The chart falls into the
                        possession of the innkeeper's son (the man who tells the story), and he
                        brings it to Squire Trelawney, who charters a schooner to go in search of
                        the treasure, but when the vessel draws near the island in which the
                        treasure is buried, it is found that most of the crew hired  by the garrulous squire belong to a band of
                        pirates under the orders of Long John Silver, the one-legged cook. The
                        conspiracies, the counterplots, the combats and murders on ship and shore,
                        before the treasure is secured and carried home, are related in Stevenson's
                        wonderful style. Even in the wildest extravagancies there is an air of
                        probability which leads the imagination captive. The description of Long
                        John himself, with his plausible and garrulous good-nature concealing the
                        most diabolical character, is very lifelike. And those of us who know
                        nothing of buccaneers and their ways are quite convinced that the men
                        described in "Treasure Island" are just the sort of people that pirates must
                        really be.
                    From "Robinson Crusoe" to "Treasure Island" there is a long step in
                        advance.
                
            
        
        
            
            
                CONCLUSION
                If our views of contemporary fiction were ripe enough for final judgment, I would
                    much like to continue this excursion down to the presdent date, and compare the
                    foregoing works with some of the novels written by authors who are now living.
                    My conviction is that fiction has not deteriorated, and that there has been no
                    time in the past when the standard was higher than it is to-day.
            
        
    
