
     ----CITATION---- 
        Foulke, William Dudley, 1848-1935. Lyrics of War and Peace. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3915
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
                
                    LYRICS OF WAR AND PEACE
                
                 BY WILLIAM DUDLEY FOULKE, LL.D. AUTHOR OF 'SLAV AND
                    SAXON', 'MAYA' 'LIFE OF O. P. MORTON', 'PROTEN PAPERS'  'HISTORY OF
                    THE LANGOBARDS', 'DOROTHY DAY' 'MASTERPIECES OF THE MASTERS OF
                    FICTION' 'SOME LOVE SONGS OF PETRARCH,' ETC.
                
                    HUMPHREY MILFORD
                    OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS
                    LONDON
                    EDINBURGH
                    NEW YORK
                    TORONTO
                    MELBOURNE
                    BOMBAY
                    1916
                
            
            
            
                PRINTED IN ENGLAND AT THE OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    IN WAR TIME 
                            FALL, SILENT SNOW 9
                                
                            NIGHT THOUGHTS 10
                                
                            TO THE NEW YEAR 11
                                
                            LO! SUMMER COMETH 12
                                
                            THE RAIN 13
                                
                            VAE VICTIS 14
                                
                            REMORSE 15
                                
                        
                    
                    BEYOND THE SEAS
                            TO POMPEII 19
                                
                            TO ITALY 20
                                
                            VALSOLDA'S VOICES 21
                                
                            BY VASOLDA 22
                                
                            MOODS 25
                                
                            AMONG THE ALPS 26
                                
                        
                    
                    LOVE AND LIFE
                            IN ABSENTIA 31
                                
                            THE RETURN 33
                                
                            IN YOSEMITE 34
                                
                            
                            THE VISION OF DAPHNIS 35
                                
                            SAPPHICS 36
                                
                            CLOUDS 39
                                
                            MAY AND OCTOBER 41
                                
                            DARBY AND JOAN 42
                                
                            A TRIBUTE 43
                                
                            A DAUGHER'S LOVE 44
                                
                            LAUS DEO 45
                                
                            THE HUMANIST 46
                                
                            HAPPINESS 47
                                
                            MOTHERS 48
                                
                            DIES NEFASTUS 49
                                
                            EARLY SPRING 50
                                
                            THE DREAM OF YOUTH 51
                                
                            A RETROSPECT 52
                                
                            INDIAN SUMMER 53
                                
                            DE SENECTUTE 54
                                
                            FALLING LEAVES 55
                                
                            PALLIDA MORS 56
                                
                            THE BEE 60
                                
                            HOW SHALL THEY THINK OF ME? 62
                                
                            BEYOND THE VEIL 63
                                
                            NON PIANGERE 64
                                
                        
                    
                    
                    PERSONALIA 
                            PETRARCH 67
                                
                            OLIVER PERRY MORTON 68
                                
                            THEODORE ROOSEVELT 69
                                
                            TO JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY 70
                                
                            TO THE SONNET 71
                                
                        
                    
                    AD PATRIAM 
                            AD PATRIAM 75
                                
                            THE HIGHER PATRIOISM 81
                                
                            THE CITY'S CROWN 82
                                
                            TO WOMANKIND 83
                                
                            THE PAWPAW 85
                                
                        
                    
                    TRANSLATION AND PARAPHRASE
                            TO AMARYLLIS 89
                                
                            TO POLYPHEMUS 94
                                
                            THE CYCLOPS' ANSWER 95
                                
                            THE SONG OF BOUKAIOS 96
                                
                            HYMN TO APHRODITE 97
                                
                            THE TUTOR OF LOVE 101
                                
                            THE PORTRAIT102
                                
                            DANTE ON BEARICE 104
                                
                            PETRARCH 105
                                
                            
                            BEFORE SAN GUIDO 106
                                
                            KING CHAND TO THE DAUGHTER OF MITRA 116
                                
                            BELOVÈD OF MY HEART 117
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    INDEX OF FIRST LINES 118
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Lyrics of War and Peace
                
                    IN WAR TIME
                    
                    IN WAR TIME
                    
                        Fall, silent Snow
                        
                            FALL, silent snow, from out the pitying sky
                            And hide our guilty world ! Cover them all—
                            The corpses that in reeking trenches lie—
                            The Belgian, the Briton and the Gaul,
                            Teuton and Slav ; fall softly then and deep
                            On ruined home and blasted field and wood ;
                            To thy cold pillow let the wounded creep,
                            Till Death at last brings peace—and brotherhood !
                            O couldst thou hide despair! Couldst thou but stay
                            The pangs of famine! Couldst thou still the cry
                            Of desolate mothers, couldst thou but allay
                            The widow's grief and hush the maiden's sigh
                            O'er broken hopes ! How many a winter's snow
                            Must fall ere time shall heal this universal woe !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Night Thoughts
                        
                            THROUGH the long night I tossed; the drums of war
                            Hammered upon my heart; the winter wind
                            Cried out for vengeance upon those who bore
                            The guilt of this great crime against mankind ;
                            What was it for ? What destiny malign,
                            What thirst for empire, boundless power and fame
                            Could unto hopeless ruin thus consign
                            The innocent and set the world aflame ?
                            How will it end What prophet shall foretell
                            The dire reprisals and the fnal doom ;
                            And they who opened wide this fiery hell,
                            When shall they leap into the flaming tomb?
                            In what far heaven doth the Almighty keep
                            His thunderbolts ? Where doth hs justice sleep ?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To the New Year
                        
                            O YEAR unborn ! what hell thine eye must see
                            When they unclose ! Thy snowy mantle red
                            With precious life blood bowing aimlessly
                            Thro' the deep trenches and around the dead!
                            What blasts of bursting shells shall smite thine ear!
                            What groans attend the anguish of thy birth !
                            What drum-beats, smothering cries of pain and fear,
                            Roll their loud curses o'er the shivering earth
                                !
                            Forth from thy snows what blackened ruins rise
                            Of wasted cities with their battered walls,
                            Of tall cathedral spires that pierced the skies,
                            Of thatch-roofed cottages and stately halls,
                            By war's wild fury shattered, wrecked and torn--
                            And one short week ago the Prince of Peace was born !
                        
                        1915.
                    
                    
                    
                        Lo ! Summer cometh
                        
                            Lo ! summer cometh through her emerald gate
                            With life renewed in flower and bird and tree,
                            And love hath made all things articulate,
                            And filled the world with joy and melody.
                            Yet over all these smiling fields of green
                            Hate, the destroyer, reigns, and mine and shell
                            Burst from the earth and sea and sky serene,
                            And myriads perish in a flaming hell !
                            Nature would stretch her loving hand to save,
                            And lift her voice to comfort every cry;
                            The turf is green that grows on many a grave,
                            And blossoms clothe the fields where heroes lie ;
                            But in despairing hearts what summer's bloom
                            Shall hide with flowers of hope this universal tomb ?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Rain
                        
                            Is it the battle's vapours that have spread
                            Their curtain o'er the crystal of the sky,
                            Till the thick clouds that hung above the dead
                            Have shouded all the world's immensity ?
                            Week upon week the tireless rains descend,
                            And field and wood are covered with the gloom;
                            The sullen hours drag on that have no end
                            Like evil omens of a general doom.
                            'Tis vain, O sun, to turn thine eye away
                            From fields of slaughter. Though the clouds may hide
                            The shame and horror, yet they cannot stay
                            The onward sweep of war's remorseless tide
                            Shine forth and cheer a world by conflict torn,
                            Till peace shall dawn at last upon some happier morn.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Vae Victis
                        
                            WOE to the vanquished ! Let them perish all!
                            Both men and nations ! Life is for the strong
                            And not for weaklings ! Smite them till they fall!
                            Justice is dead ; there is no right nor wrong !
                            Woe be to those whose innocence alone
                            Is all their armour, for the conqueror's
                                sword
                            Shall desolate their land and they shall groan
                            Under the stern rule of an alien lord.
                            My country ! Thou art strong and great of soul,
                            But sleeping, and thy sword is put away ;
                            Awake ! what hostile drum-beats round thee roll,
                            What foes may crush thee or what friends betray!
                            Arise ! while war's red gospel fires the sky,
                            Shalt thou alone all undefended lie ?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Remorse
                        
                            THEY sent us forth to search the town. 'Spare neither child
                                nor man,
                            Woman nor any living thing'--'twas thus the order
                                ran.
                            I entered a low dwelling, I climbed the humble stair,
                            I searched in vain ; there was no voice, no footfall anywhere.
                            I turned to go; a curtain moved ! behind it was a child;
                            A blue-eyed boy by the window stood and looked at me and smiled.
                            I thought to leave him there unharmed. How could a father kill
                            The helpless thing that trusted him and had no thought of ill ?
                            But then the soldier's duty spoke, 'A soldier must
                                obey,
                            'Tis not for him to pity when the order is to slay.'
                            
                            I shot the boy ! I hear to-day his wild despairing cries,
                            I see the look he gave me from those clear reproachful eyes.
                            Where'er I go that memory is ever at my side,
                            And even in the silent grave the vision will abide.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    BEYOND THE SEAS
                    
                    BEYOND THE SEAS
                    
                        To Pompeii
                        
                            As is the face of one but newly slain--
                            All motionless, yet filled with seeming life,
                            With lips half parted and with eyes astrain,
                            And cheeks yet red with anger of the strife ;
                            Thus, stricken city through these buried years,
                            Thy death-cloth drawn away, thou art revealed
                            As one just fall'n ; thy passions and thy fears
                            As keenly marked as when thy fate was sealed.
                            On the soft breast that hid those fires below,
                            Thy luxury reclined, but all the art
                            That Greece did with her delicate hand bestow
                            To deck thy beauty, could not change thy heart,
                            Which still confesses, in this tainted dust,
                            Thy greed, oppression, cruelty and lust.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To Italy
                        
                            FAIR land, all hearts are captive unto thee!
                            Thy casket holdeth every jewel rare
                            Wherewith God decks the world; thy golden air
                            Laden with languid joy; the sapphire sea
                            That doth enfold thy shores; the mystery
                            Of opalescent clouds above the green
                            Of emerald hills with crystal lakes between;
                            Thy peaks, ice crowned in glittering majesty!
                            Nor nature fair alone, but history
                            With every scene her subtle charm doth twine,
                            Doth fill each grove with some bright memory,
                            And in each wall some precious deed enshrine
                            While we are bound in the soft witchery
                            Of beauty, music, song and art divine
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Valsolda's Voices
                        
                            THE plash of ripples on the garden wall;
                            The chime of distant bells ; the whirr of wings;
                            The warbling of the wren ; the cuckoo's call;
                            The lark's clear notes when to his mate he sings
                                ;
                            The sparrows' chatter; and when all is still,
                            From the dark thicket the melodious song
                            Of nightingales which the soft air doth fill,
                            And deep into the day its strains prolong;
                            The chorus on the water far away;
                            The rustle of the palm that would beguile
                            The sighing airs which through the cypress stray--
                            On sounds like these the listening heavens smile!
                            Into that silent blue the white peaks rise,
                            And here I sit, and this is Paradise !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        By Valsolda
                        
                            LOVE, we have travelled far together and we have seen many
                                things,
                            We have bestirred us from morning until night in search of
                                novelties--
                            Paintings by the masters, sculptures of acient days,
                            Churches and palaces and gardens that filled our eyes with
                                wonder,
                            Castles upon lofty heights and cities with many towers and
                                battlements.
                            Now let us rest awhile and fill our souls with one scene only;
                            It is a scene incomparable, let us fix it in our memories for
                                ever;
                            The same, yet changing, with light and shade alternate ;
                        
                        
                        
                            Montains heavy with clouds ad then rejoicing in a sunlight that seems
                                eternal;
                            A lake now slumbering, now foaming, now rippling with laughter;
                            Green climbing hills with villages clinging to their sides
                            And rugged peaks above them; vineyards and terrace walls
                            Moss-covered and with cactus crowding through the crannies;
                            Flowers everywhere and a quiet air yet over- flowing with the
                                hamonies of birds;
                            Tall cypress sentinels to guard the churchyards and the
                                dwellings,
                            And to watch over the magnolias and pahettoes.
                        
                        
                            Such, too, has been the landscape of the days that we have lived
                                together;
                            Peaks of aspiration that glistened in the sunshine, and anon were
                                covered by clouds;
                            The waters of life, now calm, now stirred to fury; now laughing in
                                the breeze;
                            
                            Clinging companionships like those vines and villages; some weeds too
                                that have grown in the crannies,
                            But over all the beautiful heaven filled with songs of birds,
                            And the green around us and the flowers and the cypress that shall
                                guard our bodies at the end.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Moods
                        
                            'Tis dawn. The clouds hang low upon the hills.
                            The lake is leaden—not a breath to stir
                            The tiniest wave. A heavy silence fills
                            All space. The grey world is a sepulchre !
                        
                        
                            Now the breeze flutters, and blue isles of light
                            Steal through the grey. Alternate sun and shade
                            Fleck the crisp waters, scale the mountain height,
                            Sport on the crag and gambol through the glade!
                        
                        
                            The clouds are gone ; and in the glittering sheen
                            Of morning sunlight, Spring, a jewelled bride;
                            With flowers and songs of birds and tender green
                            Of wood and meadow, draws her veil aside!
                        
                        
                            And look! far off where white peaks pierce the sky!
                            Tis there earth touches immortality!
                        
                        LUGANO, May 1, 1913.
                    
                    
                    
                        Among the Alps
                        
                            ONCE more among the mountains ! Hither still
                            My old love calls and memories replete
                            With rapture of the crags I scaled. What thrill
                            Of conquest, with the whole world at my feet !--
                            The start before the dawn; the rapid climb
                            Through the green meadows, up the rocks and snow
                            Under the starlight, where in ranks sublime
                            Those great white giants stand. Now far below
                            The tinkling bells grow faint, I hear no more
                            The rush of water ; silence like the tomb,
                            An Alpine silence, falls ; the mountains hoar
                            Stand still and wait till dawn shall break the gloom;
                            Till passionate sunbeams pierce the rosy flush,
                            And the pale peaks greet their lovers with a blush!
                            
                            Now the pink light is creeping softly down
                            Those giant folds till the thick morning haze
                            That lies like fleece on valley, field and town
                            Doth slowly melt beneath the warming rays !
                            The clouds below me break; islands of green
                            Come peering forth and wide and wider grow
                            Till woodland, lake and river in the sheen
                            Of the clear morning sunlight smile and glow.
                            Day has awakened; on the lonely peak
                            Where I did greet its coming, blistering rays
                            Flash keen across the snow. Now down! and seek
                            Where tumbling masses crash and the dull roar
                            Of the avalanche chills the spirit to its core.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    LOVE AND LIFE
                    
                    LOVE AND LIFE
                    
                        In Absentia
                        
                            IN what strange ether move those waves of light
                            Between thy heart and mine? What spirit air
                            Quivers with thy dear voice, both day and night,
                            In dreams and waving hours ? Thy silken hair
                            Lies loose in shining waves for my caresses ;
                            The eyes that rest on mine are passing fair
                            The while I toy with those soft rippling tresses.
                        
                        
                            I hear thee, see thee, touch thee. Can it be
                            Thou art so far and that the words I hear
                            Have spread their wings over the land and sea
                            Ere they alighted on my eager ear ?
                            That what I see is but the picture fair
                            That fancy fashions when it turns to thee ?
                            That what I touch is but the image rare
                            That blissful memories have wrought for me ?
                        
                        
                        
                            What love unspeakable thy smiles do tell !
                            What floods of passion through thy bright eyes stream
                                !
                            Surely in some diviner sphere we dwell,
                            We two alone, with all the world a dream !
                        
                        August 1, 1914.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Return
                        
                            SOFTLY she entered through the open door.
                            I looked upon her, and it was the sun
                            Shining on all the world! I looked once more,
                            And lo ! a rose ! and like it there was none !
                            A fair white rose that glistened with the dew !
                            Then a low voice with music filled my heart
                            And veiled mie eyes intears. Could it be true,
                            And was she there indeed ? Why did we part ?
                            At last the days of absence all were o'er !
                            Then the warm kiss, the hand upon my brow,
                            The quiet talk of what had gone before;
                            And all the things that we alone did know !
                            In that low murmur and that fond caress
                            What an eternity of happiness !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        In Yosemite
                        
                            AH-WAH-NE'S gentle vale is lying low
                            Deep at the foot of many a hoary hill,
                            Across her face the breezes come and go
                            And visions not of earth the senses fill--
                            The mountain, mirrored in the lake serene--
                            The giant cliff that rears its crest on high--
                            The stream that winds through wood and meadow green--
                            The crystal torrent, leaping from the sky !
                            Yet lovelier than the mountain or the stream,
                            Or the soft airs that through the woodand stray,
                            Were those dear eyes that made the world a dream
                            And the low voice that stole my heart away.
                            Methought each waterfall and rock and tree
                            Did homage to that bright divinity.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Vision of Daphnis
                        
                            THERE is a voice that charms me while I dream,
                            A face that bends above me in my sleep,
                            And rippling tresses touch me that do seem
                            Woven of sunbeams. Then from slumber deep
                            I waken, but the radiant vision still
                            Bides at my side, a woman's perfect form
                            Instinct with gracious life. A joyous thrill
                            Mantles her cheek with red, her breath is warm,
                            Her eyes are tender ; now her lips press mine
                            And murmur low sweet words, while a white arm
                            Doth round my neck in close embracement twine
                            As though to shelter me from care and harm.
                            Nor is our love the passion of a day,
                            But long hath been and shall be ours alway
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Sapphics
                        
                            
                                Then had Aeneas perished, King of men,
                                Had not Jove's daughter, Venus, quick perceived
                                His peril imminent.
                            
                            Cowper's Iliad, v.
                                360.
                        
                        
                            WET with white foam-flakes and with dew of morning,
                            Breathing forth desire from their eager nostrils,
                            Stand the steeds, fire-eyed, and with feet impatient ;
                            Aching for combat.
                        
                        
                            All around were hosts of the stem Achaians,
                            All around were hosts of the valiant Trojans,
                            While above were gathered the gods of heaven;
                            Silence was on them.
                        
                        
                        
                            Silence deep and dread as when clouds of heaven
                            Roll together, pause for the fiery combat,
                            Pause, ere red flames flash and the crash of thunders
                            Shivers the darkness.
                        
                        
                            Rings the loud lash ! Wild as the waves of ocean
                            Leap those flaming steeds, as a hungry tiger,
                            Crouched long time in rushes and grass, in silence
                            Leaps on his victim.
                        
                        
                            Now Aeneas, flushed with the dawn of battle,
                            Joyful speeds to cope with the brave Tydides;
                            Him he spied afar, in his might rejoicing,
                            Smiting the Trojans.
                        
                        
                            Then the heroes, shouting a noise of battle,
                            Joined in conflict; high from the earth Tydides
                            Raised a greatrock, hurled it against the Trojan,
                            Smote him with darkness.
                        
                        
                        
                            Now Aeneas, fallen to earth, had perished,
                            Save that Venus, darling of Jove, espied him ;
                            She, in white arms, gently her dear son lifting,
                            Bore him from battle.
                        
                        
                            Foam-born mother ! so unto us descending,
                            Worn with toil and labour and dust of battle,
                            Bear us up on white arms of love, and grant us
                            Rest in thy bosom.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Clouds
                        
                            YES, the smiling clouds are angels,
                            Angels of the air ;
                            On the path from earth to heaven
                            Peri bright and fair.
                            They are messengers of plenty,
                            Raining happy harvests down ;
                            Now they gild the skies of sunset,
                            Now the hoary hills they crown.
                            Forms fantastic, visions rare,
                            Flit and hover ever in the air.
                        
                        
                            Now they vaunt the pride of armies
                            Marching with the gale;
                            Now they breathe in rainy darkness
                            Sorrow's plaintive tale;
                            Now they come, the moon's attendants,
                            Following the steps of love;
                            Now they speak in gloomy thunders,
                            Direful wrath of gods above.
                            Human passions, dark and fair,
                            Pictured by the angels of the air.
                        
                        
                        
                            Yonder is a cloudy palace,
                            Just a minute old--
                            Roof of pearl and walls of silver,
                            Pillars bright with gold
                            Now it is a mighty mountain,
                            Towering tall and grim and high;
                            Now, like forms of shadowy dreamland,
                            All go flitting, fitting by.
                            Lights of joy and shades of care,
                            Chasing one another through the air.
                        
                        
                            Colours rich in cloudy beauty
                            To the earth are given,
                            But the brightest hues are cherished
                            For the eye of Heaven.
                            Like those angels of the sunlight,
                            Is the heart of one I love;
                            Dear she is to all around her,
                            Dearer yet to One above.
                            Sweet to us, yet passing fair
                            To that keen Eye that searcheth everywhere.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        May and October
                        
                            THRICE blest am I that through the changing years
                            No change in love I find; that the young face
                            That nestled close upon my breast appears
                            Fair as when first I saw it. Still the grace
                            Of every motion charms. Her hair is white--
                            I love it so. The lines upon her brow--
                            I see them not. Her eye is just as bright,
                            Her glance as tender and her voice as low
                            As when it spoke the words that made us one,
                            Or when its music sang my heart away
                            In passionate youth. Nay, our October sun
                            Is mellower than the richest tints of May.
                            Her dauntless spirit never can grow cold,
                            Nor rust of age tarnish a heart of gold.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Darby and Joan
                        
                            A QUIET face is near me while I write,
                            And radiates content. We sit alone.
                            Her fingers ply the needle, skilful, light;
                            Anon her eyes seek mine. Our brood has flown,
                            Yet the days are full of sunshine, aye, too fast
                            They hasten by, and we full well do know
                            By our white locks, such bright days cannot last;
                            That soon the hour draws near when one must go,
                            And leave an empty world. The future hides
                            The riddle that we ask, 'Which shall it be
                                ?'
                            For bitterer far the lot of him who bides,
                            A happier fate to sail the unknown sea !
                            Old comrades we in fair and stormy weather;
                            As comrades still, why not leave port together ?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Tribute
                        
                            How bright the promise when the trees in spring
                            Break into bloom, how soon alas to fade !
                            Some will bear fruit to crown their blossoming,
                            Some give their foliage and grateful shade ;
                            Those that with beauty only deck the field;
                            They are the ones we treasure most of all,
                            Forgetful of the toilers that will yield
                            Their generous increase in the coming fall;
                            But I know one whose blossoms do not fade,
                            Whose beauty grows, and all her leaves are fair.
                            How have I rested in their cooling shade,
                            And watched them stirring in the summer air
                            And in this golden autumn sunshine, how
                            The mellow fruit hangs upon every bough !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Daughter's Love
                        
                            A HAPPY father thou, when sturdy sons
                            In mellowing age a golden youth renew,
                            In them thy name through generations runs,
                            By them achieved, thy early dreams come true.
                            But happier he whose daughters round him twine
                            Their loving arms in his declining years,
                            And if he smile, their eyes with gladness shine,
                            Or if he grieve, their cheeks are wet with tears.
                            For deeper tenderness hath woman's heart
                            For him she loves than son for sire can feel;
                            His waning hours she cheers with simple art;
                            And o'er his couch a fragrant breath doth
                                steal
                            From gentle lips whence no reproaches come,
                            And a fond breast where thought of self is dumb.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Laus Deo
                        
                            How I do bless the hour that gave me birth;
                            And her who bore me for these happy years,
                            Filled to the brim with every joy of earth,
                            Wreathed with its roses, scant alone in tears !
                            Full life and vigour, lit by golden rays
                            Of constant friendship ; faithful wife and fair,
                            Nay, fairer grown in these declining days,
                            While evening's light streams on her silver hair
                                ;
                            Children and children's children at her knees
                            In filial homage ; low soft words of love
                            Around a warm bright hearth, what more than these
                            Can fruitful earth bestow or heaven approve?
                            One gift alone God's bounty stil can send,
                            And close a fair life with a peaceful end.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Humanist
                        
                            Go, surly anchorite, and crush the flowers ;
                            Stifle the songs of birds on every bough;
                            Strip all the leaves of pleasure from the hours;
                            Walk with a crown of thorns upon thy brow ;
                            Mumble thy prayers ; look not in woman's eyes ;
                            With scourge and sackcloth make thy life a hell,
                            Then claim for this thy place in paradise !
                            For all thy torments God reward thee well !
                            Nay, go thy ways--a better part for me !
                            Filled with the love of beauty like the Greek,
                            From gloomy fears and superstitions free,
                            The near delights of earth I fain would seek--
                            Fair nature's smile, man's fellowship sincere;
                            For joy is in my heart, and heaven is here !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Happiness
                        
                            Two kinds of sorrows vex your lives with care:
                            Things that you can, and things you cannot mend.
                            If you can change them, do it. Why despair?
                            If not, then why your days in torment spend ?
                            For beauty is around you everywhere
                            In the blue sky or cloud, at noon or night,
                            And glory fills the heavens, and earth is fair,
                            Whether its mantle be of green or white.
                            Whence cometh joy? On many a pampered son
                            Nature bestows her richest gifts in vain,
                            While from some crippled, poor, neglected one
                            Her songs arise with smiles that banish pain.
                            The well-spring is within to curse or bless;
                            In your own hearts is grief or happiness.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Motehrs
                        
                            THOUGH I had lost my little ones, I tried
                            To spin life's thread anew and bring relief
                            To other suffering creatures at my side,
                            And one poor mother filled my heart with grief.
                            Her babes were pinched with hunger and half-clad,
                            Her home was cold and empty. So I gave
                            Enough for food and warmth. 'Twas all she had--
                            But once she came and would my pardon crave;
                            'I pray you think me not too bold,' she said,
                            'I spent the half of all that you have given
                            In holy mass for those sweet children dead
                            I could not rest till they had hope of
                                heaven.'
                            Dear Lord, who from our hearts the veil dost lift,
                            What sayest Thou ? Who brought the richer gift ?
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Dies Nefastus
                        
                            I RAGE at all the world ! All things conspire
                            To vex and fret me ! Hear that rasping noise !
                            That blackbird chatter ! Look ! from my open fire
                            A cinder leaps and my new coat destroys !
                            My morning mail is full of vain demands !
                            I hear a friend has left me in the lurch :
                            I learn of neighbouring missionary bands
                            Coming to make me say I'll go to church !
                            'Tis not enough to wish that I were dead,
                            I feel like Nero as I snarl and groan,
                            And wish that humankind had but one head
                            That I might chop it off and live alone !
                            The imps of sheol on my spirit prey !
                            Tis the thirteenth I my most unlucky day !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Early Spring
                        
                            CLOUDLESS the sky; the first warm sun of spring
                            Has broken through the chill of winter days;
                            The tender twigs give sign of blossoming ;
                            The distant wood sleeps softly in the haze,
                            The ants are venturing forth, the bluebirds call
                            Responsive out of somewhere in the sky ;
                            The shadows of the trunks and branches fall
                            O'er the brown leaves that on the hillside lie.
                            Lo ! something is astir, tho' all unseen,
                            In every blade and spray; the boughs are bare,
                            Yet teem with promise of their coming green
                            Won by the warm breath of the quiet air.
                            So let thy life, like this prolific hour,
                            Teem with the promise of new leaf and flower
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Dream of Youth
                        
                            THE world is mine ! What prizes doth it hold!
                            What golden apples hang upon the tree !
                            Knowledge and honour, power and wealth untold,
                            Beauty and love—and all shall come, to me !
                            A name that shall endure throughout all time—
                            Since others have achieved it, why not I ?
                            And history shall write my deeds sublime,
                            And all salute me as I pass them by.
                            With high and noble purpose and a mind
                            Filled to the brim with love of righteousness,
                            With speech to sway the councils of mankind,
                            With deeds to thrill them and a heart to bless,
                            What glittering hopes upon my pathway shine !
                            I'll scale the topmost peak ! The world is mine !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        A Retrospect
                        
                            THE dreams of youth were vain, but in their stead
                            Came better things; no fame, but household joy
                            And wholesome duties; peace without annoy,
                            Deep love and constant she whom I did wed
                            Hath never changed. Yeto one dark sorrow spread
                            Its shadow over us and did destroy
                            A golden hope ; our gentle brown-eyed boy,
                            His fair-haired sister's guardian, with her led
                            To other lands ; and we above the dead,
                            Who lie together on a hillside green,
                            Do sometimes stand, our quiet tears to shed,
                            Remembering the beauty that hath been
                            And how it passed. Soon in such narrow bed
                            We too shall lie, beneath the stars serene.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Indian Summer
                        
                            WHEN I review the landscape of my life
                            From the calm heights where now I pause and rest,
                            All vanished are the storm and wind and strife,
                            And gone the clouds that floated o'er its breast.
                            The fields lie warm in sunshine ; a faint haze
                            Broods o'er the hills beneath the mellow sky;
                            The leaves that fluttered down through autumn days
                            All crisp and shrivelled on the earth do lie.
                            Fond hopes were they—these withered dreams of fame;
                            Yet love remains and I am well content—
                            If but some fragrant memory bless my name
                            Not all in vain these teeming days were spent.
                            But soon shall winter come and snow must fall
                            To hide fair nature's face, and cover all.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        De Senecute
                        
                            THE leaves fall fast, the locks upon my head
                            Grow thin and gray. 'Tis winter comes apace.
                            Soon will the foliage of the woods be dead
                            And icy tempests hide fair nature's face.
                            Yet shall my hearth be bright and shed a glow
                            Cheery and warm as if the summer smiled,
                            While the clear sunshine that my heart doth know
                            Shall gleam afresh in youth from age beguiled !
                            Love, tears and laughter and the hate of wrong--
                            Let me still keep them ! And my young desires
                            I will pursue with dancing feet and song
                            Till the last ember on the hearth expires !
                            Nay, let mine ear grow dull, eye dim, and body fail,
                            Yet o'er the wreck a dauntless heart prevail !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Falling Leaves
                        
                            THE autumn days are here; the brown leaves fall
                            Reluctat, one by one, from bush and tree;
                            Friend after friend departs; I hear a call,
                            And wonder if the summons is for me.
                            Not as when once in youth with choking fear
                            I heard that voice, my hopes all unfulfilled;
                            To-day with quiet heart the call I hear
                            Each vain regret and dark foreboding stilled;
                            For I have lived my life, my days are done:
                            Their clouds and sunshine, joys and sorrows spent--
                            Shame of defeat and pride of victory won--
                            And soon to my long rest I go content,
                            Whether to wake upon some happier shore
                            Or sleep without a dream for evermore.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Pallida Mors
                        
                            YOUNG was I and strong, joyous and full of hope,
                            How beautiful was the world What treasures of knowledge to be
                                explored !
                            What dreams of glory and achievement ! What good to be done to a dull
                                foolish generation !
                            What visions of a better era when poverty and vice and wrong should
                                cease !
                            O to be a leader in the struggle for the emancipation of mankind
                                !
                            And the raptures of woman's love ! For kind eyes smiled on
                                me,
                            And the voices of the maidens around me were merry with laughter.
                            What sunshine on the wings of my fancy ! what gold on the morning
                                clouds as they opened before me !
                            When lo ! a voice at my side ! 'Nay, come with me,'
                                it whispered.
                            I turned and behold! a haggard face and very pale,
                            
                            With cavernous eyes that were blazing with desire for me,
                            And a long skinny had that struck me on the breast.
                            'Who art thou?' I asked, and it repled, 'I
                                am the White Terror,
                            Who gathers the young and fair by thousands in the pride of their
                                youth.'
                            Then it spoke no more, but walked a little behind me and silent, at
                                my side,
                            While the fever and the dull pain in my breast were there to remind
                                me.
                            How could a good God send this thing when flowers and sunshine were
                                around me everywhere ?
                            But the face still peered over my shoulder, and there was no
                                answer.
                            The physicians admonished me to flee--to the mountains--to the dry
                                plains of the west,
                            And I became a fugitive--wandering to escape my doom,
                            But still I heard the patter of bony feet beside me, and the face was
                                there and the dull pain;
                            Then I cried and prayed in my agony, but for a long time always in
                                vain.
                            
                            The footsteps followed, followed without ceasing, then there was a
                                little respite,
                            And as the years went by they fell behind and at last I heard them no
                                more.
                            
                            Now the evening lights are around me and I see again the face of the
                                destroyer;
                            At first it was a little way off, now it draws nearer and nearer;
                            It cannot be very long until I must heed the summons.
                            But how its countenance is changed; pale still, but calm and with a
                                smile,
                            It seeks not to clutch me as of old with passionate eagerness,
                            But it would win me as afriend and counsel me to quiet slumber,
                            And were it not for gentle ones around me who would fain keep me a
                                little longer,
                            Its soft voice would almost persuade me to follow it with joy unto
                                the tomb.
                            For that thing which is inevitable, what better time than to-day if
                                all is ripe ?
                            
                            I am not yet weary of the world--why wait till the heaviness of age
                                shall overcome me ?
                            My work is wellnigh done--A little more or less, what matters it
                                ?
                            And afterwards--whether it be resurrection or eternal rest, I shall
                                still be content.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Bee
                        
                            A BEE through my half-opened window flies,
                            And flutters in the sunshine on the pane,
                            Beating against the glass in efforts vain
                            His tireless wings, while to escape he tries.
                            Dull creature ! In their own way bees are wise,
                            For dwellings trim in swarming towns they build,
                            Store honey till their granaries are filled,
                            And armies, crafts and guilds they organize;
                            But on that unfamiliar pane, this bee
                            Cannot discern the way that he must go,
                            And marks not close at hand an egress free
                            To the blue sky and that clear morning glow.
                            Only th' accustomed pathway can he see,
                            Only his round of daily duties know.
                        
                        
                        
                            We deem ourselves far wiser than the bee.
                            We rear our stately cities ; we explore
                            The hidden depths of nature; from her store
                            We heap, with gems and gold, our treasury;
                            We scour the heavens and we roam the sea;
                            We fain would reach the stars. How much we know!
                            Yet when our feet to other worlds would go,
                            Threading the mazes of eternity,
                            In wild andaimless wanderings they try
                            This way and that; we beat our wings in vain
                            Against the glass; false pathways we descry,
                            Delusions dull! We strive again, again
                            With useless toil to reach the shining sky,
                            Blind as the bee upon the window pane !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        How shall they think of me ?
                        
                            How shall they think of me when I am gone--
                            Those that I love ? With sob and sigh and tear,
                            Toiling with bowed heads through the heavy year ?
                            In sackcloth and in ashes shall they groan,
                            Stifle the songs of birds with cry and moan,
                            Banish all joy of life with frown austere,
                            And hush the children's laughter in dull
                                fear,
                            Darkening fair nature to one sombre tone ?
                            No ! let the laugh ring clear, the jest be gay,
                            The song as blithe as ever; I'll be there
                            To dance again that merry roundelay,
                            And chase afar the surly brood of care.
                            Forget me not, but in your work or play
                            Give me my part, nor deem I am away.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Beyond the Veil
                        
                            BROTHERS, if in that country where you dwell
                            Come thoughts of earth and those who linger here,
                            Be sure that they whom you have held so dear
                            Are with you still to-day. No funeral knell
                            Hath chased away your presence, nor can quell
                            In faithful hearts the sense that you are near
                            Which we have kept through many a changing year--
                            The love which time nor death can quite dispel.
                            We almost hear your voices--touch your hands ;
                            You seem to come once more, and smile and speak!
                            Soon to your world we pass, where we must seek
                            You surer guidance through those unknown lands--
                            Your welcome, when beyond the silent sea,
                            We climb the hills that touch eternity.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Non Piangere
                        
                            WEEP when thy lover's arms are turned to clay,
                            Or when the breast that nourished thee is chill,
                            Or curling baby locks are put away,
                            And bright eyes close and prattling lips are still;
                            Mourn for the youth whose hope is crushed in bloom,
                            For the sweet maid, by loathsome death defiled,
                            Or for the bride who trembles at the tomb,
                            Or the young mother who must leave her child :
                            But not for me, whose count of days is done,
                            Whose work is ended and whose pulse is low ;
                            For I can look upon the setting sun,
                            And fear no harm, and watch the evening glow
                            Fade upon field and forest and far hills,
                            Fair landscape of the past! and slowly mark
                            The flickering lights appear, while quiet fills
                            My soul, that fain would drowse i' the gathering
                                dark,
                            And welcome a long slumber, still and deep,
                            E'en though it were an everlasting sleep.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    PERSONALIA
                    
                    PERSONALIA
                    
                        Petrarch
                        
                            ACROSS the centuries and in every land
                            His name is honoured stil. In that long night
                            When learning's flame was quenched, it was his hand
                            That lit the torch and brought the welcome light.
                            So says the world, and yet it treasures more
                            Those songs that tell of frailties like our own--
                            The fruitless love which many a year he bore,
                            That grew the brighter when its hope was gone.
                            The lays wherein his passion was enshrined
                            Outlast the ages. While from day to day
                            I read his lines, old age is left behind
                            And youth returns; these scattered locks of grey
                            Turn brown once more, and solemn wisdom dies
                            Under the witchery of my lady's eyes.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Oliver Perry Morton
                        
                            FEW are the spirits so supremely great
                            That they can turn the tides of destiny
                            With ruin fraught and drive the waves of fate
                            To dash on other shores ; yet such was he.
                            Our state was drifting to the dark abyss
                            That yawned behind secession; treason lay
                            Lurking on every side; all hearts but his
                            Faltered in doubt upon that perilous way.
                            His arm alone our heavy burdens bore
                            That else had crushed us. Grim adversity
                            Inspired him. Through that long and bitter war
                            He held us steadfast unto victory,
                            While Lincoln gave to freedom its new birth,
                            And kept the people's rule upon the earth.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Theodore Roosevelt
                        
                            Lo ! he would lift the burden from the weak,
                            Kindle with hope the dull eye of despair,
                            And for the common weal all things would dare,
                            Scourging the money-changers, smiling, sleek,
                            Forth from the temple till on him they seek
                            Impotent vengeance. Slanders must he bear--
                            Foul imprecations that infect the air--
                            Lies till the heavy breath of heaven doth reek
                            With stench of calumny--the assassin's blow,
                            The mockery of the proud ; the stinging thorn
                            Of fickle friendship, flattery turned to scorn ;
                            Yet while the coming years their gifts bestow,
                            Crowning great names with glory, his shall shine
                            In the front rank of our illustrious line.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To James Whitcomb Riley
                        
                            WHEN from tormenting cares I steal away
                            To haunt the quiet river-side, to hear
                            The murmur of the stream, to note the play
                            Of quivering foliage mirrored sharp and clear
                            Upon its tranquil breast, to see the boys
                            Plunge in the swimming-hole, to thread the lanes
                            Close-thicketed and share the wanton joys
                            Of forest birds, to watch the heavy wains
                            Creaking and toiling through the shallow ford,
                            To mark the cricket's chirp and drone of
                                bee,
                            Or sit a welcome guest at the farmer's board,
                            Hearing quaint talk and rude philosophy,
                            Riley, thy music comes, a soft refrain,
                            And blends with all in one harmonious strain.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To the Sonnet
                        
                            THEE Dante fashoned with celestial art,1
                            And bathed thee in the azure air and gold;
                            Through thee did Petrarch pour his loving heart
                            In silver streams that down thy numbers rolled ;
                            Amid thy measures Shakespeare's soul did shine
                            When first he bent thy form to our dull tongue;
                            And Milton's lyre awoke in strains divine
                            When to thy chords his tuneful notes he sung;
                            And Wordsworth loved thee, and through thee did pour
                            His music of the woods and lakes and hills;
                            And Riley brought thee to the cottage door
                            With sound of rustling leaves and trickling rills.
                            O Sonnet, proud indeed should thy heart be
                            That thou hast dwelt in such high company.
                        
                        1The first four
                            lines of the above are after Carducci, Il
                            Sonetto.
                    
                
                
                
                    AD PATRIAM
                    
                    AD PATRIAM
                    
                        Ad Patriam
                        
                            HOPE of the world, to whom the hopeless come
                            In thronging multitudes, and shelter find
                            In thy protecting arms--whom all men seek
                            And none avoid ! Even before thy birth
                            God knew that He would love thee, for He gave
                            To thee as to none other all His gifts--
                            Stretched the vast deep around thee as a wall
                            Fringed with a thousand harbors for thy fleets ;
                            The two great oceans glittering at thy feet
                            With cliff and bay and headland and long range
                            Of shining beach--on thee He hath bestowed
                            All fruits, all climes, all seasons; the rude North,
                            The sinews of thy sons, and the soft South
                            Where the cane rustles and the summer winds--
                            Breezes of endless summer--stir the palms
                            
                            And fan the orange groves. Thou art alone
                            A world unto thyself ; with mountain, plain--
                            Innumerable peaks and prairies broad--
                            And strong swift streams to carry to the sea
                            From farm and mil, from woodland and from mine,
                            The long neglected treasures of the soil.
                        
                        
                            How many ages did the forest wait
                            The woodman's axe and the luxuriant grass
                            Nod on the plains beckoning the husbandman !
                            Roll back the years, my soul! bring to mine eyes
                            The scenes from whence my country's glories sprang ;
                            First that small bark, freighted with hearts content
                            To brave the sea, famine and wilderness,
                            But not to palter with their faith and God.
                            I see the fabric of their infant state
                            Established ere they reach the barren shores
                            Whereon to build it; I follow their stern lives ;
                            And watch the race through toil and pain grow strong
                            Whose seed shall be the leaders of mankind.
                            
                            And now the clouds descend and hide my dream;
                            And when again they break, lo! thirteen states
                            Uniting, form a nation; teach the world
                            The new strange truth that men are equal all;
                            And look ! this fresh child Hercules goes forth
                            Strangling the Lernean coil of 'right divine',
                            And hews his way through eight long years of war
                            Against an empire ! Bitter was the strife,
                            Slow the deliverance, from Valley Forge
                            To that last day at Yorktown, when the sword
                            Passed from Cornwallis' hand, to the great chief
                            Who is and shall be first in all our hearts !
                            Calm, true, majestic, constant as the stars,
                            His is the central figure for all time
                            In the world's chronicles of liberty!
                            Around him stand the fathers; men with minds
                            In girth and height gigantic, not alone
                            To fancy's ken, but measured by the line;
                            Not merely freedom's tongues, but architects
                            And builders of a state, elastic, strong,
                            Fit for the changing needs of coming times,
                            The fairest work that statecraft ever planned,
                            Had they but given the dark sons of toil
                            The rights proclaimed for all. But this one flaw
                            
                            Weakened the noble structure till it leaned
                            And tottered to its fall.
                        
                        
                            For now the mist
                            Thickens, and when again it breaks, I mark
                            A great Republic spread from sea to sea
                            But rent with grievous discord, and mine eyes
                            Peer shuddering o'er the edge of the abyss
                            That yawned behind secession, where I see
                            My country's mangled body, bleeding, torn.
                            Who shall deliver her ? Behold! a face
                            Shines through the gloom, strong, homely, gentle, sad,
                            Like the Redeemer's visage, filled with the light
                            Of one high purpose, that the people's rule
                            Shall fail not on the earth. The fetters fall!
                            The re-united nation lifts her head
                            Above the slaughter of a thousand fields,
                            Strong, free, erect, her great sin washed away,
                            While on the brow of her deliverer
                            God sets the thorny crown of martyrdom !
                        
                        
                            Once more the vapours drift before mine eyes,
                            And when they float away, I see a form
                            
                            Fairest among the nations, with glad face
                            Lit by the smiles of heaven, on fruitful paths
                            Of industry outstripping all mankind,
                            And holding high torch to light the world.
                            Lo ! on an island close beside her doors
                            The stricken ones behold it, and they cry
                            Craving deliverance. Hark ! the bugles call,
                            The bright sword glistens, and the vow is made
                            To put it not away till they are free ?
                            I watch the fleets go forth, and see the gates
                            Flung open, where in Eastern climes the sun
                            Brings in the new-born day. Before me lie
                            The islands where the task is ours to bring
                            To the brown peoples, out of darkness, light,
                            And out of chaos, law.
                        
                        
                            Land of my heart,
                            What future is before thee ? Shall it be
                            To lie at ease, content with thy bright past.
                            Heedless of all the world, till idleness
                            Relax thy limbs, and swoln with wealth and pride
                            Shalt thou abandon justice and the poor ?
                            Or shalt thou, re-awakened, scatter wide
                            The glorious tidings of a liberty
                            
                            That lifts the latch of opportunity
                            First to thy children--then to all mankd ?
                            Love of my soul--God keep thee strong and pure,
                            That thou shalt be a fitting messenger
                            To carry hope to all the sons of men.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Higher Patriotism
                        
                            MUST we be welded by the might of kings
                            In one hard mould to make us strong and great?
                            Or can we do ourselves the heroic things
                            That crown with power the city and the state ?
                            In peace as well as war canst thou give all--
                            Comfort and home, the love in woman's eyes,
                            High hopes and riches, if thy country call--
                            Ready and eager for the sacrifice ?
                            Not only when the bugle sounds, but now,
                            Forget thy self ? Silence thy mutinous soul !
                            Th' thorns of martyrdom may press thy brow,
                            Fail not ! for human welfare is the goal !
                            The state shall stand, tho' thou thyself must fall,
                            Or live for freedom's sake, bereft of all !
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The City's Crown
                        
                            WHAT makes a city great ? Huge piles of stone
                            Heaped heavenward ? Vast multitudes who dwell
                            Within wide circling walls ? Palace and throne
                            And riches past the count of man to tell,
                            And wide domain ? Nay, these the empty husk!
                            True glory dwells where glorious deeds are done,
                            Where great men rise whose names athwart the dusk
                            Of misty centuries gleam like the sun !
                            In Athens, Sparta, Florence, 'twas the soul
                            That was the city's bright immortal part,
                            The splendour of the spirit was their goal,
                            Their jewel, the unconquerable heart!
                            So may the city that I love be great
                            Till every stone shall be articulate.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        To Womankind
                        
                            'The morality of submission and the morality of chivalry are past.
                                The time has now come for the morality of justice.'
                            JOHN STUART MILL.
                        
                        
                            I. SUBMISSION
                            
                                UPON thy delicate flesh and dainty form
                                What fetters man hath bound ! He offered thee
                                Homage — 'twas mastery! shelter from the storm—
                                It was a prison ; Opportunity—
                                To be his slave and toy ! He made a vow
                                And called it wedlock, and then wrote the law
                                That ruled thee with the rod ! He would ' endow
                                With worldly goods', yet stripped thee—and he saw
                                Thy children torn from thee ; thy duty still
                                Was meek submission to his sovereign will !
                            
                        
                        
                            II. CHIVALRY
                            
                                THY knight hath fought the tourney—won the prize,
                                Hath laid it at thy feet on bended knee,
                                
                                Hath sought the smile of thine approving eyes
                                And vowed undying love and loyalty.
                                Beauty still findeth favour in his sight,
                                Grace doth he show thee as in days of eld,
                                But never justice, and that sovereign right
                                Whereon all rights depend is still withheld.
                                Thine but to charm him and his cares beguile--
                                To win him with a tear or with a smile.
                            
                        
                        
                            III. JUSTICE
                            
                                SLOWLY the gates of opportunity
                                Open at last, and ever more and more
                                Woman is ruler of her destiny
                                And shattered many a bond that once she bore.
                                All shall be broken! Man shall seek her aid,
                                Not in the narrow bounds of home alone,
                                But for the common weal, and wife and maid
                                Shall speak with voice as potent as his own.
                                God speed the moment when in every land
                                All doors shall open to a woman's hand !
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        The Pawpaw
                        
                            DEEP in our Hoosier woods a fruit grows wild
                            That sheds an Orient fragrance faint and rare;
                            Perfume of spice from Araby exiled--
                            Breath of the tropics in an alien air !
                            Smooth is its seed, dark green and sleek its skin;
                            Slender and frail the tree whereon it grows;
                            Luscious the melting yellow pulp within,
                            That ripens till the winter tempest blows.
                            How comes it here to the rude north,--this soft
                            Child of the southland--of ambrosial flavour
                            When fast we taste it, but at last, too oft,
                            It palls the palate with its sickening savour;
                            And, like the wine cup or the wanton's smile,
                            It cloys the sense that it had charmed the while?
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    TRANSLATION AND PARAPHRASE
                    
                    TRANSLATION AND PARAPHRASE
                    
                        To Amaryllis
                        
                            To Amaryllis with my song I go,
                            To woo her, while upon the grassy hill
                            With Tityrus my she-goats crop their fill.
                            Good Tityrus, thou'lt feed them well know.
                            Lead them to springs where the cool waters flow,
                            And of the yellow he-goat have a care,
                            The Lybian, lest he butt thee unaware.
                        
                        
                        
                            Ah lovely Amaryllis, why no more
                            Turn thy soft eyes as in the days of yore,
                            Down thy dark cave to me ?
                            Nay, can it be
                            Thou hatest me and that I do appear
                            Snub-nosed, with bristly beard, when I am near ?
                            O I shall hang myself for love of thee!
                        
                        
                            I bring thee apples plucked where thou didst say,
                            And I will bring thee more another day.
                            
                            Pity my sorrow ! were I but a bee !
                            That humming-bee that dips beneath the fern
                            And the dark ivy leaves that shelter thee !
                            Alas ! with the fierce fire of Love I burn
                            That bites me to the bone. A stern god he
                            Whom sure the lioness in his infancy
                            Did suckle and his mother reared alone
                            In the deep wildwood Ah ! thou heart of stone,
                            So fair to look upon ! Ah ! dark-browed maid,
                            Embrace thy shepherd true, in this thick shade !
                            Give me thy lips to kiss,
                            For e'en in vain caresses there is bliss.
                        
                        
                            In fragments small thou soon wilt make me rend
                            The wreath of ivy that I keep for thee,
                            Dear Amaryllis, and with rosebuds blend
                            And sprays of fragrant parsley. Woe is me !
                            What anguish do I bear!
                            Where shall I go? Thou hearest not my prayer!
                        
                        
                            I will cast off my coat of skins and leap
                            Into those briny waves out yonder where
                            Olpis the fisheman his watch doth keep
                            For tunny shoals, and there, if I shall die,
                            Surely thy cruel heart 'twill satisfy !
                        
                        
                        
                            I know my fate. I asked the poppy leaf,
                            'Loves she or not ?' and
                                'twould not cling nor stay
                            Nor give a crackling sound, but to my grief
                            On my smooth arm it withered fast away.
                        
                        
                            And Greco, who divineth by the sieve
                            And with the reapers to the field doth fare,
                            To bind the sheaves, she said my heart doth live
                            On love of thee, but that thou hast no care.
                        
                        
                            Truly the white goat do I keep for thee,
                            And the twin kids that Mermnon's daughter
                                too,
                            The brown-skinned Erithakis, asks of me--
                            I'll give them to her since thou art not
                                true.
                        
                        
                            Lo ! my right eyelid throbs. Is it sign
                            I'll see her ? I will lean against this pine
                            And sing to her. Perchance she'll look on me;
                            She is not made of adamant like thee.
                        
                        
                            Lo ! Hippomenes when he did aspire
                            To win and wed
                            A fair and noble maid,
                            
                            Took apples in his hand and won the race,
                            For, plunged in the deep waters of desire,
                            Fair Atalanta saw, and stayed her pace.1
                        
                        
                            The seer Melampus too his herd did lead
                            From Othrys down to Pylos. For his meed
                            In Bias' arms the lovely mother lay
                            Of wise Alphesiboea.2 Such a way
                        
                        1The Boeotian
                            Atalanta was the daughter of Schoenus. The Delphic oracle had warned her
                            against marriage and she required every suito to contend thhr nthe foot
                            race. If he won, he was to berewarded with her hand ; if helost, he was
                            to beput to death. She was the most swift-footed of mortals and had
                            overcome many suitors, but when Hippomenes aspired to her hand,
                            Aphrodite gave him golden apples from the garden of the Hesperides,
                            which he dropped one after another dining the contest, and Atalanta
                            stopping to pick them up lost the race. The pair afterwards profaned by
                            their love the temple of Cybelet and were metamorphosed into lions and
                            yoked to her chariot.
                        2 Neleus, the
                            son of Tyro and King of Pyles, declared that he would give his beautiful
                            daughter Pero in marriage to the suitor who should bring to him from
                            Othrys in Thessaly the herd of oxen of Phylacus, which had formerly
                            belonged to Tyro. Bias was in love with Pero, and his brother the seer
                            Melampus derookt task. Phylacus gave him the herd as reard forwise
                            counsel; he brought it to Pyles, whereupon Pero became the wife of Bias
                            and mother of Alphesiboea.
                        
                        
                            Did young Adonis on the mountains feed
                            His flocks, that Cyterea he did lead
                            To heights of frenzy, so that, sore distressed,
                            Even in death she held him to her breast.
                        
                        
                            Blest is Endymion in his quiet slumber !1
                            And Iasion too, dear maid, for he can number
                            Such joys as the profane shall never know.2
                            My head doth pain me but thou dost not care;
                            I'll sing no more, but unto death I'll fare.
                            Here may the wolves devour me, lying low;
                            Yet sweet to thee
                            As honey in the mouth my death shall be.
                        
                        THEOCRITUS, Idyl iii.
                        1 As Endymfon
                            slept on Mount Iatmus, his beauty warmed the cold heart of Selene (the
                            moon), who came down to him and kissed him and lay by his side.
                        2 Iasion,
                            beloved of Demeter, who lay with him 'in a thrice ploughed
                            field', for which Zeus slew him with the thunderbolt.--Odyssey, v. 125.
                    
                    
                    
                        To Polyhemus
                        
                            WITH apples Galatea pelts thy flock,
                            And says the goatherd is a laggard swain.
                            Thou heedest not, hard man while she doth mock,
                            But to thy pipe betakest thee again.
                            And now behold! the dog that follows thee
                            To guard thy flock--him she is pelting sore.
                            Anon he barks and gazes toward the sea,
                            And the waves show him capering on the shore.
                            Take heed he leap not on the maiden fair
                            And rend her flesh when from the brine she springs.
                            But look again ! and see her wantoning there
                            Like thistle-down that the hot summer brings !
                            When thou dost woo, affrighted will she flee,
                            But when thou woo'st her not, she follows thee !
                        
                        THEOCRITUS, Idyl vi.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Cyclops' Answer
                        
                            I SAW her. She escaped not that dear eye
                            Where with I hope to see to my life's end.
                            'Twas to torment her that I passed her by,
                            And that I loved another did pretend ;
                            That she in pain and jealousy might pine,
                            Or in her madness leap from out the sea,
                            Gazing on all those caves and herds of mine
                            Which she hath lost because she flouted me.
                            In faith I'm not so hideous as men deem,
                            For lately when I looked into the blue
                            (The waves were still) all fair my beard did seem,
                            And that one eye of mine was comely too--
                            As I count comeliness--and my teeth were white
                            As Parian marble glittering in the light !
                        
                        THEOCRITUS, Idyl vi.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Song of Boukaios
                        
                            MUSES, who dwell by the Pierian spring,
                            Whate'er ye touch, you make it wholly fair!
                            Come then with me ; her praises let us sing—
                            A slender maiden, sweet beyond compare.
                        
                        
                            A gipsy do they call thee, brown and lean,
                            Dear Bombyca, and withered by the sun !
                            I only know thee truly, and I ween
                            'Tis honey-pale thou art, thou gracious one !
                            Though dark the hyacinth and violet,
                            We choose them first when we our garlands twine !
                            On Aphrodite's altar would I set
                            (If but the wealth of Croesus once were mine),
                            All made of gold, the image of us twain—
                            Thou with thy flute, an apple or a rose,
                            And at thy side thy madly loving swain
                            In fair attire, and with Amyclean shoes !
                            Like carven ivory are thy shining feet,
                            Thy ways past telling, thy voice drowsy sweet!
                        
                        THEOCRITUS, Idyl x.
                    
                    
                    
                        Hymn to Aphrodite1
                        
                            O QUEEN, who loest Golgi and the steep
                            Of Eryx, jutting o'er the glittering deep!
                            O Aphrodite, thou who play'st with gold,
                            The dainty footed Hours have come, behold !
                            They bring thee back Adonis who had gone
                            To the eternal stream of Acheron.
                            Of all the immortals tardiest are they,
                            But come at last to those who wait and pray,
                            And bear with them a gift. And now to thee
                            They bring thy love from Death's captivity.
                            O Cypris, daughter of Dione fair,
                            From mortal to immortal, men declare
                            That thou our Berenice2 didst transfom,
                            Dropping ambrosia on her bosom warm.
                            Therefore for thy delight it is but meet
                            Her daughter Arsinoë, comely, sweet
                        
                        1 Sung at a
                            festival given by Ptolemy Philadelphus and Arsinoë, his wife and sister,
                            at Alexandria.
                        2Wife of
                            Ptolemy Soter, mother of Ptolemy Philadelphus and of Arsinoë.
                        
                        
                            As Helen's self, should serve Adonis fair
                            With sacrifices beautiful and rare.
                            Before him lie ripe fruits of many a tree
                            From many a garden's rich fertility.
                            See the array these silver baskets hold!
                            That Syrian incense in those cups of gold !
                            And from the kneading tray the dainty cake
                            Of whitest wheaten flour that women make
                            With oil and trickling honey, deftly done
                            Into the shapes of things that fly and run !
                            And here are built for him green shady bowers
                            Thick-laden with the tender anise flowers,
                            While happy wanton children, breathing love,
                            Are fluttering through the foliage above,
                            And the young nightingales with trembling fly
                            From bough to bough their tender wings to try.
                            O gold and ebony and eagles twain1
                            Of whitest ivory that bear amain
                            Unto the son of Kronos, like a steed,
                            The darling of great Zeus, fair Ganymede !
                        
                        1A variation of
                            the myth which represents Zeus as carrying Ganymede to heaven upon a
                            single eagle, to be his cupbearer.
                        
                        
                            O purple coverlet, more soft than sleep !
                            Two couches a there--one doth Cypris keep;
                            One, rosy-armed Adonis, fair to see--
                            A bridegroom still in early youth is he,
                            With kisses soft and lips with down of gold.
                            See Cypris now her lover's arms enfold !
                            Good-night to them! But when the night is through,
                            We all will gather with the morning dew,
                            And to the waves upon the beach repair,
                            And thither sweet Adonis will we bear ;
                            Ungirt, with breasts unhad, and tresses flee,
                            We will begin our shrill sweet melody.
                        
                        
                            HYMN TO ADONIS
                            
                                Thou only, dear Adonis, so men tell,
                                Dost visit both the world and Acheron's
                                    stream ;
                                Never such lot to Agamemnon fell
                                Nor mighty Ajax in his wrath supreme,
                                Nor Hector, eldest born of twenty sons
                                Of Hecuba, nor dear Patroclus slain,
                                Nor Pyrrhus who returned (the legend runs)
                                From out of Trovland with the Grecian train--
                                
                                No yet the heroes of more ancient days,
                                The Lapithae, or chiefs of Argos old,
                                Deucalion's sons, or Pelops' fatal race.
                                Of none of these is such a story told.
                                Adonis, when thou comes, thou art dear,
                                And ever shalt be--Bless the coming year !
                            
                        
                        THEOCRITUS, Idyl xv.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Tutor of Love
                        
                            GREAT Cypris came to mean while still I slept,
                            And the boy Love in her fair arms did bring;
                            His head was bowed to earth as if he wept ;
                            She said, 'Dear herdsman, teach him how to
                                sing.'
                        
                        
                            Then she departed, and to Love I taught,
                            In innocence, my store of pastoral songs,
                            Told how Athene wise the flute had brought,
                            How to Apollo sweet the harp belongs.
                        
                        
                            These things I told him, yet he heeded not,
                            But sang himself full many an amorous lay,
                            Till all the lore I taught him I forgot,
                            But what he sang, I hear it still to-day !
                        
                        BION, Idyl v.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Portrait
                        
                            MASTER of the Rhodian art,
                            Best of painters true and tried,
                            Come paint for me the mistress of my heart,
                            For she, alas ! is absent from my side.
                        
                        
                            Paint me first her rippling hair,
                            Black, yet very soft and fair,
                            Till I see the tresses stir,
                            And feel their breath of fragrant myrrh.
                            Beneath her dark locks draw for me
                            Her perfect cheeks and brow of ivory;
                            And be sure thou keep the grace
                            (Not broad nor narrow) of the space
                            Above her arching eyebrows where they meet.
                            Paint, if thou canst, her sweet
                            Alluring glance of hidden fire,
                            And melting with the heart's desire
                            Like Cytherea's, yet from eyes as blue
                            As those of fair Athene, clear and true.
                            
                            Then mingle with the snows
                            Upon her cheek the colour of the rose,
                            And see thou do not paint amiss
                            Those soft persuasive lips that sue for many a kiss,
                            While round the throat of marble that doth lie
                            Beneath her delicate chin, the Graces fly !
                        
                        
                            And last of all, I pray,
                            Clothe her in fair array--
                            In a thin robe of purple hue ;
                            A little let the flesh show through,
                            So that I may descry
                            Her body sweet beneath the drapery.
                        
                        
                            Now it is done; and look ! herself I see,
                            And soon that image fair shall talk with me!
                        
                        ANACREON, Ode 15.
                    
                    
                    
                        Dante on Beatrice
                        
                            MY lady beareth love within her eyes
                            Which doth ennoble all it doth behold;
                            Men look, and whom she greets in gracious wise
                            A trembling reverence doth his heart enfold;
                            And each with lowered visage groweth pale,
                            And at his own shortcomings doth he sigh.
                            Before her face both pride and anger fail—
                            Women give aid to sound her praises high !
                            Every sweet thing and humble thought the while
                            Stirs in his heart who hears her accents kind,
                            And he who once hath seen her—blest is he !
                            And how she looks when she begins to smile
                            Cannot be spoken nor be held in mind,
                            Such a strange gentle miracle is she.
                        
                        Vita Nuova, xxi.
                    
                    
                    
                        Petrarch
                        
                            MASTER FRANCESCO, I have come to thee
                            And to thy friend, that gentle, fair-haired dame;
                            To calm my angry spirit and set free
                            My grim soul by sweet Sorga's crystal
                                stream.
                            Look I shade and rest I find beneath this tree !
                            I sit, and to the lonely shore I call;
                            Thou comest, and a choir encircles thee
                            Who greet me with a friendly welcome all.
                            And that sweet choir-athey are those songs of thine,
                            Down whose fair sides their golden tresses fall--
                            Escaping from the rose-wreaths that entwine
                            Their gathered folds, in ringlets prodigal
                            And one doth shake her locks, and the rebel cry
                            Breaks from her tuneful lips, 'Rome ! Italy ! '
                        
                        
                            From the Italian of Carducci.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Before San Guido
                        
                            THE tall and slender cypresses that from San Guido go,
                            Lining the road to Bolgheri in a long, straight, double row,
                            Like youthful giants in a race, seen clear across the skies,
                            Nodded in friendly greeting a they flashed before mine eyes.
                        
                        
                            They knew me well and whispered, with their tall heads bending low
                                :
                            'Return to thy old home again, no farther need'st
                                thou go.
                            Why wilt thou not come down to us? Why wilt thou never stay ?
                            The evening air is fresh and cool, and thou knowest well the way.
                        
                        
                        
                            'Abide thou here and sit thee down within our fragrant
                                shade
                            Where the cool breezes from the sea so oft with thee have played.
                            We bear no grudge against thee for the stones that thou didst
                                throw,
                            They did not harm us in the least; and that was long ago !
                        
                        
                            'Those precious nests of nightingales, we keep them still
                                to-day ;
                            Ah! wherefore wilt thou pass us by and fly so swift away ?
                            Remain with us for evermore ! The sparrows still at eve
                            In circles round our lofty heads their courses
                                interweave.'
                        
                        
                            'Fair little cypresses of mine ! Ye faithful friends and
                                true,
                            Friends of a better, happier time that I would fain
                                renew'
                            (I looked upon them as I spoke); 'could I my wish
                                fulfil,
                            With what a light and joyful heart I'd linger with you
                                still.
                        
                        
                        
                            'But yet my little cypresses, you needs must let me go ;
                            For this is not the merry time that once we used to know ;
                            If you could only understand ! 'Tis not for me to say,
                            But really I have become a famous man to-day !
                        
                        
                            For I have studied and can read both Greek and Latin too ;
                            I write and write, and there are many other things I do.
                            O cypresses, I'm not a naughty urchin any more,
                            And stones I throw no longer as I used to do of yore--
                        
                        
                            'At least not at the plants !' And now a quiet
                                murmur swept
                            Round the hesitating tree-tops as their evening watch they kept;
                            And piercing through their depths of green, the waning day the
                                while
                            Beamed rosy red upon me with a kind and loving smile.
                        
                        
                        
                            And then full well I knew that both the cypresses and sun
                            Had a tender, gentle pity for poor me, the wandering one;
                            And soon the murmur turned to words, its meaning to impart--
                            'O yes ! full well we know it all, a wretched man thou art
                                !
                        
                        
                            'Full well we know it for to us the wind has told the
                                tale--
                            The wind that bears the sighs of men upon its sorrowing gale--
                            How in thy breast eternally those maddening conflicts rage
                            Which thou hast neither wit nor power to stifle nor assuage.
                        
                        
                            'To us and to these oak-trees here thou freely mayst
                                reveal
                            The sadness that oppresses thee, the grief thy heart doth feel.
                            O look ! how calm and peaceful, how clear and blue the sea !
                            And how upon its quiet breast the sun sinks lovingly !
                        
                        
                        
                            'See how the flight of many birds hath filled the sunset sky
                                !
                            How merry is the chatter as the sparrows flutter by !
                            To-night, the nightingales in song their brimming hearts shall
                                pour.
                            O stay with us, nor still pursue thine idle phantoms more !
                        
                        
                            'Those phantoms vain and bootless that across thy fancy
                                start
                            By impious thoughts are driven from the caverns of thy heart,
                            As at night unto the wayfarer the putrid fames will rise
                            From charnel-houses foul and dank and flash before his eyes.
                        
                        
                            'Stay with us, and to-morrow, when the noonday heat has
                                come,
                            And in the shade of mighty oaks the steeds are standing dumb,
                            While round about and far and near, on high and everywhere
                            Over the burning, quivering plain, a silence fills the air,
                        
                        
                        
                            'We cypresses will sing to thee in chorus full and high
                            The songs that hover ever between the earth and sky;
                            And from these elm-trees there shall come the nymphs and dryads
                                fair
                            To fan for thee with their white veils the sultry summer air.
                        
                        
                            'And Pan the eternal, who is wont upon this hour of day
                            On barren heights and o'er the plains to take his lonely
                                way--
                            He shall transform the stifling cares that round thy spirits
                                twine--
                            Poor helpless mortal that thou art--to harmonies divine
                                !'
                        
                        
                            'Beyond the Apennines', I said, 'is a home
                                to which I fare,
                            Where a little child awaiteth me who needs her father's
                                care.
                            Titti is like a sparrow, but no feathered gown hath she
                            To keep her warm in winter days, so you must leave me free
                        
                        
                        
                            'And something else the child must eat than cypress berries
                                hard,
                            And I have not the fortune of a smug Manzonian bard
                            Who draws four times the recompense his verses ought to gain--
                            So farewell, cypresses ! Farewell, my sweet and fertile plain
                                !'
                        
                        
                            And they answerd as we parted, 'Dost thou not remember
                                still
                            That thy grandam lieth buried in the graveyard on the hill
                                ?'
                            And while they vanished from my sight they seemed a black array
                            Grumbling that I had scorned them as they fled in haste away.
                        
                        
                            And now from out that graveyard at the summit of the hill,
                            Down the green lines of cypress which I saw in fancy still,
                            Tall, and arrayed in sable gown, appeared that ancient dame,
                            My grandmother Lucia, and with stately step she came.
                        
                        
                        
                            And from her gracious lips, beneath her white and waving hair,
                            Harmonious flowed the Tuscan speech in accents soft and rare,
                            Filled with the power and sweetness the Versilia doth impart
                            To the tongues of all her children ; how it ligers in my heart !
                        
                        
                            'Grandmother mine, how fair it was, the tale you used to
                                tell
                            When I was but a little child--Ah ! I remember well !
                            Tell it again to this wise man ! I'd hear it still
                                to-day,
                            The tale of her who sought in vain the love that fled
                                away.'
                        
                        
                            
                                'I've worn out seven pairs of shoes
                                    made all of iron and strong,
                            
                            
                                And seven staffs my feet to stay upon my journey long
                                    ;
                            
                            
                                And seven flasks of tears I've filled, through
                                    seven weary years,
                            
                            
                                Yet here you sleep and will not wake for all my cries
                                    and tears.'
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            'Grandmother mine, your verses yet seem beautiful and true,
                            And the lost love that all in vain my heart doth still pursue
                            Both morn and eve and day and night through many a weary year,
                            Perchance if I but knew it well, is close beside me here,
                        
                        
                            ' Under these swaying cypresses that wooed me all in vain,
                            Within whose shade I never hope to rest my head again.
                            Grandmother mine, perhaps it sleeps in your graveyard there
                                above,
                            Among those other cypresses—that cherished, vanished love!'
                        
                        
                            And now with many a puff and snort the engine steams away,
                            While in these idle reveries my wandering fancies stray;
                            And look ! a graceful flock of colts, like a troop of laughing
                                boys,
                            Caper and bound across the field, and whinny at the noise !
                        
                        
                        
                            But an old grey ass stands cropping a thistle red and blue,
                            And not a whit disturbeth him this mighty din and hue;
                            He will not deign to lift his eyes for the clatter and the roar,
                            But slowly and sedately keeps on browsing as before.
                        
                        
                            From the Italian of Carducci.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        King Chand to the Daughter of Mitra
                        
                            WHEN the crisp breeze doth pluck thy mantle's wings,
                            And chides them that they hide a form divine,
                            And presses thy soft gown until it clings
                            To thy lithe limbs and bosom's rounded line,
                            And lifts its hem from off thy shining feet,
                            And strokes thy hair and rumples every tress,
                            And fans thy cheeks flushed with the summer's heat,
                            And kisses thy red lips in wantonness ;
                            Longing I gaze and wish that I were he,
                            That I might touch thee with a hand so bold,
                            And leaping from the valley swift and free,
                            Thy gracious body in mine arms enfold.
                            But I stand shamefaced, for I would not dare
                            Caress thee like that all-embracing air.
                        
                        
                            From 'A Mine of Faults'.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Belovèd of my Heart
                        
                            BELOVÈD of my heart! It is thy love—
                            I know it well—kindling the golden light
                            That dances on the leaves, or far above
                            Soaring in opal clouds with fringes bright
                            That idly drift across the morning sky.
                            'Tis nothing but thy love—I feel it now—
                            That stirs the breezes which go softly by,
                            Leaving their coolness on my burning brow !
                            These blessèd morning rays that come from thee,
                            Flooding my soul—they are thy message, dear,
                            To my poor heart. Thy face bends over me,
                            Thine eyes look down on mine and seem so near,
                            That with a bound my soul leaps forth to greet
                            Thy presence and to touch thy shining feet!
                        
                        RABINDRANATH TAGORE, Gitanjali 59.
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                INDEX OF FIRST LINES
                
                    A bee through my half-opened window flies60
                    A happy father thou, when sturdy sons44
                    A quiet face is near me while I write42
                    Across the centuries and in every land67
                    Ah-wah-ne's gentle vale is lying low34
                    As is the face of one but newly slain19
                    Belovèd of my heart! It is thy love117
                    Brothers, if in that country where you dwell63
                    Cloudless the sky ; the first warm sun of spring50
                    Deep in our Hoosier woods a fruit grows wild85
                    Fair land, all hearts are captive unto thee !20
                    Fall, silent snow, from out the pitying sky9
                    Few are the spirits so supremely great68
                    Go, surly anchorite, and crush the flowers46
                    Great Cypris came to me while still I slept101
                    Hope of the world, to whom the hopeless come75
                    How bright the promise when the trees in spring43
                    How I do bless the hour that gave me birth45
                    How shall they think of me when I am gone62
                    I rage at all the world ! All things conspire49
                    I saw her. She escaped not that dear eye95
                    In what strange ether move those waves of light31
                    Is it the battle's vapours that have spread13
                    
                    Lo ! he would lift the burden from the weak69
                    Lo ! summer cometh through her emerald gate12
                    Love, we have travelled far together and we have seen many things22
                    Master Francesco, I have come to thee105
                    Master of the Rhodian art102
                    Muses, who dwell by the Pierian spring96
                    Must we be welded by the might of kings81
                    My lady beareth love within her eyes104
                    O Queen, who lovest Golgi and the steep97
                    O year unborn ! what hell thine eyes must see11
                    Once more among the mountains ! Hither still26
                    Slowly the gates of opportunity84
                    Softly she entered through the open door33
                    The autumn days are here ; the brown leaves fall55
                    The dreams of youth were vain, but in their stead52
                    The leaves fall fast, the locks upon my head54
                    The plash of ripples on the garden wall21
                    The tall and slender cypresses that from San Guido go106
                    The world is mine ! What prizes doth it hold !51
                    Thee Dante fashioned with celestial art71
                    There is a voice that charms me while I dream35
                    They sent us forth to search the town15
                    Though I had lost my little ones, I tried48
                    Thrice blest am I that through the changing years41
                    Through the long night I tossed ; the drums of war10
                    Thy knight hath fought the tourney—won the prize83
                    'Tis dawn. The clouds hang low upon the hills25
                    To Amaryllis with my song I go89
                    Two kinds of sorrows vex your lives with care47
                    Upon thy delicate flesh and dainty form83
                    
                    Weep when thy lover's arms are turned to clay64
                    Wet with white foam-flakes and with dew of morning36
                    What makes a city great ? Huge piles of stone82
                    When from tormenting cares I steal away70
                    When I review the landscape of my life53
                    When the crisp breeze doth pluck thy mantle's wings116
                    With apples Galatea pelts thy flock94
                    Woe to the vanquished ! Let them perish all!14
                    Yes, the smiling clouds are angels39
                    Young was I and strong, joyous and full of hope56
                
            
        
    
