
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ehrmann, Max, 1872-1945. A Farrago: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3930
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                A FARRAGO
                
            
            
            
                
                    A FARRAGO
                
                BY
                    MAX EHRMANN
                
                    CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
                    CO-OPERATIVE PUBLISHING COMPANY
                    1898
                
            
            
            
                Copyrighted 1898 By THE CO-OPERATIVE
                    PUBLISHING COMPANY
            
            
            
                MY DEAR BROTHER ALBERT:--
                Here is a sentence from Lamb about some lines written under a "full length" of
                    David Garrick in the Abbey: "It would be an insult to my readers' understanding
                    to attempt anything like a criticism on this farrago of false thoughts and
                    non-sense." Sometimes I have felt like saying just this about the volume before
                    you.
                The desire to make a book has at last overcome me, and this farrago is the
                    result. Where I have been cheerful, you may attribute it to good digestion, if
                    you like; and where I have been gloomy, to anything else that pleases you.
                I hope, as you doubtless will, that my subsequent books may have a better claim
                    to merit than this first adventure, which, in remembrance of your constancy,
                    despite the many tricks time has played me,
                
                    I AFFECTIONTELY INSCRIBE TO YOU,
                    M. E.
                    PARKER HOUSE, Boston, 1898.
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    THE BLOOD OF THE HOLY CROSS 9
                        
                    THE MYSTEY OF LOVE 111
                        
                    WHY SOME SCHOOLMISTRESSES DON'T MARRY 129
                        
                    MARY 143
                        
                    IN THE HOUSE OF CONTENTMENT 157
                        
                    AT COMMENCEMENT TIME 169
                        
                    A FEW FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF HARVARD 187
                        
                    PROSE-POETRY AND SYMBOLISM 199
                        
                            THE OLD MAN'S ANSWER
                            WHAT THE NIGHT SAID
                            THE LIGHT WITHIN
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
            
                A Farrago
                
                    THE BLOOD OF THE HOLY CROSS
                    
                        
                            "The flahs and outbreak of a fiery mind
                            A savageness in unreclaimed blood."
                        
                        Hamlet.
                    
                    
                    THE BLOOD OF THE HOLY CROSS
                    
                        I.
                        HENRY VAN ABERING I met at Harvard College. He was tall and slender,
                            decidedly dark in complexion,--almost copper colored,--had a large thin
                            nose, small bright eyes, high cheek bones, and very black hair. He
                            walked, I imagine, somewhat as Abraham Lincoln, with his arms hanging at
                            full length by his sides, and with long springy steps; but with more
                            vivacity. Had it not been for his excellent taste in matters of dress,
                            and very gentle breeding, he would not have been the most pleasing sight
                            to behold. He came from New York City, where his father, in his life-
                                 time, had inherited and amassed a
                            considerable fortune, and where his mother and sister were still
                            living.
                        I had come out from Boston, where I had tarried a few days, in order to
                            get a room near the university for the year's study. Van Abering
                            attracted me, for in my difficulties in becoming properly enrolled as a
                            student, he had been of no little service, and was ever ready with
                            suggestions and sympathy. I broached the subject of getting a suite of
                            rooms between us, which was agreeable to him ; and out we started to
                            ransack Cambridge for suitable quarters. Everywhere in the windows
                            bright placards were calling loudly for tenants, "Rooms for students,"
                            "Rooms for students." We hardly knew which way to turn; for since we
                            were a few days earlier than most of the students, the field was ours,
                            and we were determined to be satisfied with only the best. After
                            loitering about the Harvard Square street car station for a while, Van
                            Abering said, "Come, let us go down this way." We went  down a narrow side street, passed the
                            Hasty Pudding clubhouse, and stopped before an immense frame building
                            that seemed without end and occupied almost exclusively by "Rooms for
                            students" which tiptoed to the sills and peeped from nearly every
                            window.
                        " have always lived in the other direction," said he, ringing the bell,
                            "we'll try this end this year."
                        An untidy middle-aged lady--woman, I mean--came round the side of the
                            house, wiping her hands on her apron, as if preparing to embrace us, and
                            wearing a smile that would unarm any unsophisticated youth. "Good
                            morning, gentlemen, good morning."
                        "Good morning," we said. "We are looking for rooms," Van Abering
                            continued, coolly, not responding to the woman's smile, which with the
                            next sentence elaborated and spread out over most of her face, showing
                            her beautiful white teeth, lately from the dentist.
                        
                        "Oh! yes, yes; we have plenty of them; just step in."
                        At this point an unbeautiful young lady opened the door. One could tell
                            from her smile that she was the woman's daughter. "Oh!" she shrieked, as
                            we passed the door, "you have got paint on you. What a pity--on your
                            coat!" Taking hold of that portion of my attire and holding it before my
                            eyes, she said, "See! -- coming through the door. I'll get some
                            turpentine, and rub it off. I should have told you of the paint," and
                            she hurried off up stairs, singing like a jay bird in winter,--if you
                            know how that is--while the middle-aged woman began her speech to Van
                            Abering about the merits of the house in general.
                        The young lady returned almost instantly, and began to administer the oil
                            to my coat. She exercised me there for quite a time (but what could I
                            do?), while her mother was saying to Van Abering:--
                        "Now, this room, besides the conveniences, has had distinguished
                            occupants. Of  course you know Brown and
                            Baley--they played on the foot-ball team last year. Prescott had that
                            room over there; he was a base-ball player ; he is in California now,
                            and wrote me that he wants the room when he comes back. But I'll let you
                            have Brown and Baley's; they were very prominent students." Noting Van
                            Abering's expressionless face, she felt that she must play a different
                            card. "The room here," pointing to one across the hall, "this very room,
                            was occupied by Robert Lincoln last year."
                        "What are you telling me!" said Van Abering, unpleasantly; "Mr. Robert
                            Lincoln graduated years ago."
                        "No, no," shouted the girl rubbing my coat, "only for a day--on a
                            visit."
                        "Yes, only for a day," echoed the mother, "I should have told you that ;
                            I didn't mean to deceive you about the length of time. It was only for a
                            day--and a night, too, of course. O Robert Lincoln was a fine man ! This
                            is the very room. He used to come out here in the hall and speak
                            to--"
                        
                        "Mr. Lincoln is no relative of mine," interrupted Van Abering.
                        " No, of course; but he is a great man."
                        "IThese rooms will not do," said Van Abering, warming somewhat. He was
                            being dreadfully bored.
                        "Oh! Then come this way. Perhaps you do not admire Robert Lincoln. Here--
                            what do say to this? Are you fond of Hawthorne? The grandson of
                            Nathaniel Hawthorne" .... They passed into the room, and I could not
                            hear any more.
                        "Why, it doesn't seem to come out," said the girl.
                        I had been smelling varnish all the while; but the house just having been
                            painted, I thought, would account for that. "Let me see the bottle," I
                            said.
                        The girl stopped rubbing, reflected a moment, looked at the bottle, then
                            turned and ran up stairs, shrieking, "It's varnish, it's varnish!"
                        At that very instant, the old woman came hurriedly backing out of the
                            room into which  she had led Van Abering.
                            She was pale as death and trembled from head to foot. Van Abering
                            followed her a few steps, his face whiter than hers, his hands nervously
                            opening and closing, and his eyes sparkling savagely.
                        "What do you take me for?" he roared loud enough to be heard over the
                            whole house, "Do you think I am a fool! I am not bargaining for Lincoln
                            or for Hawthorne's grandson. I wouldn't live in your house!"
                        Several persons looked over the balustrades of the upper stories to see
                            what the trouble might be, and one of the servants ran into the hall.
                            The old woman continued to back away until she was near me, when her
                            daughter came running down stairs and stepped in front of her; all the
                            while Van Abering was still growling like something inhuman. I took him
                            by the arm and asked him to go away with me. As we passed through the
                            door, he turned to the terror-stricken old woman and said, "You old hag
                            !" He was almost frothing like a mad dog. We walked two squares before he uttered a sentence. The expression in his
                            face had not changed a jot. He looked more like a brute than a man. At
                            length he said, "I will see you tomorrow," and turned the corner in an
                            opposite direction.
                        I was greatly discouraged all that day to know that I had fallen in
                            league with one of so violent a temper. I thought he might have seen
                            rather the humorous side of the situation, and asked the old woman if
                            she had a room in which Shakespeare had eaten fish, or what the price of
                            the rooms would be without the Lincoln tradition, which she might easily
                            transfer to another suite. I meant to say to Henry Van Abering, when we
                            met on the next day, that I wished him to relieve me. I feared he would
                            take it unpleasantly; but I did not want to link myself for a year to a
                            man of such a temper, since of that ingredient in character I feared I
                            had a good supply myself.
                        We met at Harvard Square next morning. His face had its normal expression
                            again.  He took my hand affectionately, and
                            placing his left on my shoulder, said, "I hope you will overlook what
                            happened yesterday. I have already rented apartments, and you can send
                            your baggage there at any time. I hope you will like the place." There
                            was that sort of look in his face that kept me from saying what I had
                            intended. He seemed conscious of being burdened with something from
                            which it was beyond his power to release himself ; and a kind of fatal
                            melancholy in his countenance implored one to suffer him his
                            misfortune.
                    
                    
                        II.
                        The house in which we found ourselves installed was the home of a
                            pensioned naval officer, who in by-gone years had been decorated with
                            many petty honors, but was now released from service on account of some
                            optical defect. The mistress of the house was a majestic woman of about
                            fifty. For all the world, she looked more like a lieutenant than her
                            husband, who was small of stature,  very
                            gray, somewhat stooped, and had been evidently on the decline for some
                            years. In domestic battles she was always victorious; and these were not
                            few, now that their means were reduced and they were compelled to let a
                            portion of their house. Although half a century old, she was yet
                            strikingly beautiful; and had reigned in her social sets, in various
                            parts of the world, for more than twenty years.
                        We had a jolly lot of companions in this house. The rooms just below us
                            were occupied by one William Garrick, a nervous, pipe-smoking, little
                            Freshman from Illinois, who had been accompanied to the college by his
                            guardian uncle. This guardian uncle, who stayed about Cambridge for some
                            time, was the quintessence of practicality and Western common sense.
                        A suite of rooms on the other side of the house was occupied by one John
                            Francis Avonill. This fellow--but twenty-two years old--had the
                            distinction of being the most proficient connoisseur of wines and one of
                                 the best classical students about the
                            college. A rare combination to be sure ! He was the dressiest youth I
                            ever saw, a skilful fencer, could outswear any Irish sailor where
                            swearing was not extremely offensive, and in the presence of ladies
                            conduct himself as a model of propriety and good breeding. His father
                            had been for many years a congressman from one of the Southern states.
                            John Francis may have absorbed the virtues and vices of the South; but
                            where he learned the virtues and vices of the remainder of the world, I
                            cannot venture to suggest, unless it was while living with his father in
                            Washington, where the attachés of foreign dignitaries
                            usually entertain themselves after their own peculiar fashion. Like Van
                            Abering, he was tall and had dark hair; but with the complexion and nonchalant grace of a woman.
                        As time rolled on, and the acquaintance existing among the four of us
                            ripened into friendship, we saw in one another better qualities than
                            were indicated by any mere external aspect. Garrick had artistic tastes,
                                decorated his walls with copies of the
                            old masters, and his mantel and étagères with
                            miniatures of Doryphorus, Discobolus, Michael Angelo's David, Harmodius,
                            and The Borghese Warrior, about whom Avonill told us imaginary stories
                            that rivaled the fantastic horseplay of the ancient gods. He had a very
                            good and generous disposition, too,--this nervous little freshman,--he
                            supplied our tobacco when we hadn't any (and we generally saw to it that
                            we were out); he wanted to be a doctor and help people, he loaned us
                            money, and sewed on our buttons when we had to have it done at once, and
                            thus sewed his memory into our hearts.
                        Avonill, though he had bad habits, which I fear sometimes made inroads
                            upon our better natures by way of his good humor, was, above all, the
                            soul of honor; he never injured anybody but himself and always bore his
                            injuries cheerfully, knowing that they were self-inflicted.
                        Van Abering was more of a scholar than any of us, of faultless habits,
                            rather sensitive  nature, and a somewhat
                            deep and unfathomable personality. It was impossible to reconcile the
                            demonstration of wrath he made the morning we were looking for rooms
                            with what I had learned of him. I had seen that terrible expression in
                            his face but once since; and that was one morning when we met the old
                            woman in the street. It was an expression one did not soon forget. His
                            feeling against anything seemed never to vanish from him; and while in
                            these fits of passion he looked like a different person.
                        We had a glorious time in this house. In the evening after study, we
                            often went to Garrick's rooms to listen to our friends of Western
                            learning. There was, indeed, a motley crowd when we got together. The
                            guardian uncle took great interest in all of us, asking all sorts of
                            questions, and what we were going to "follow" when we graduated.
                        "Come out West," he said, "there's room to stretch there. You can bring
                            some culture with you, and we'll give you some common sense for it."
                        
                        "I've got culture to burn," said Avonill, lighting a cigarette, and
                            offering one to the uncle, who laughingly refused, saying that he never
                            smoked anything but "Long Green." "And I don't intend to sell any of my
                            culture; but am going to take it with me when I die," continued Avonill,
                            laboring with his cigarette.
                        "It will probably burn then," replied the sagacious rustic from Illinois,
                            and the laugh was charged to Avonill.
                        "My mother has some land in the West," said Van Abering. "Perhaps you
                            know where it is."
                        "The West is a very big place, my son," responded the uncle.
                        "It is in Logan County, Illinois. Perhaps you would know from that."
                        "Why!" exclaimed the old gentleman, "that isn't far from where we
                            live--only about thirty or forty miles. How in the world did you come to
                            have land there? It's a fine country."
                        "Mv father inherited it from my grand- 
                            father. My grandfather once owned the entire county. That was many years
                            ago, of course. I may come out to see the land some day."
                        This gave the guardian uncle a cue to exploit the West; and he did it in
                            masterly fashion. I fully believed that in Illinois one might find money
                            growing on the trees or in the ground, just as one liked.
                        After a lunch, which Garrick always had prepared on such occasions,and
                            much tobacco smoke, with many an old and new story -- the clock hands up
                            as high as they could go in holy horror of the lateness of the hour--we
                            brushed ourselves off to bed, seldom failing to intimate to the
                            professors in the morning that the lessons had been dreadfully long, and
                            that we were crowded to death with work.
                        Sometimes the assembly gathered in Avonill's apartment, which was a fine
                            retreat when one had the blues. He knew all the funny stories (and some
                            bad ones) about ancient and medieval celebrities--about Vir-  gil, Cicero, Caesar, Buridan, Boccaccio!
                            de Saint-Evremond and others; and he had a guitar over which he sang
                            humorous and sad old Southern songs. The evenings generally ended in a
                            game of cards, with anything you wanted in the carafe from water to old
                            East India Madeira.
                        One need not be shocked; we all had much to learn; and in due time the
                            sins of college days and careless youth were to be laid aside. We
                            revelled in our freedom, as a lion in his forest; and though we had
                            great plans of what we were going to do in the world, we did not long
                            impatiently for an emancipation from what we had repeatedly heard alumni
                            say was the elysian period of life : and in the end, we should all have
                            turned out well enough, I suppose, had it not been for something that
                            lurked in the blood of one we least suspected.
                    
                    
                        III.
                        Sometimes the old lieutenant and the madame would invite us down to spend
                            the  evening. Although the old officer was
                            on the shady side of life and was henpecked, he had nevertheless a kind
                            of breezy humor that hailed from the harbors of many climes; and manv an
                            interesting tale did he take out of his memory, when on occasions we
                            gathered around and pressed him hard, or lured him unconsciously into
                            unfolding the mysteriesof the deep or the romances and tragedies of
                            ports and harbors. (I will write some of these out some day.)
                        One cold evening on the declining side of winter, we found ourselves
                            comfortably planted before the glowing fireplace in the old officer's
                            library. Every wall, except the one containing the large grate, was
                            lined with books. It was a library of the sea--sea stories, voyages,
                            reports of commissions, discoveries, and other subjects pertaining, more
                            or less directly, to sea or ocean lore. Odd foreign weapons were lying
                            carelessly about; and above the books hung a few yellow parchments and
                            old portraits of forgotten heroes of the stormy main. The chandelier hanging from the centre of the
                            ceiling descended very low, and terminated in Turkish decorations, which
                            smothered and softened the light, so that at the climax of some of the
                            old lieutenant's stories, one half believed himself to be rocking in the
                            very cabin where the thing was taking place. A sort of mysterious
                            glimmer hung over the room ; and although in the company of other
                            persons, one felt singularly alone and inclined to introspection, or
                            doubtful as to the exact identity of those present.
                        We had a merry time, however, on this evening--a statelier merriment than
                            we were wont to have in our own apartments, to be sure, but nevertheless
                            merry. The old officer told us something of his South Sea island life,
                            where one day in the country, some distance from his companions in the
                            village, he was thrown from his horse. "After lying, unconscious, in the
                            hot sun for a while," he went on, "I was found by an old native, who
                            took me to his hut, and nursed me very carefully. When, after a  few days, I was well enough to go, he told
                            me that, in consideration of his taking care of me, I must marry one of
                            his daughters and he bade me prepare for the wedding on the morrow. That
                            night I put into my bed a rejected native suitor of my swarthy
                            thick-lipped fiancée, and fled. How the affair went
                            off the next morning when they found my substitute, it would be hard to
                            tell. You see, I could not accept the old yellow-skinned islander's
                            daughter, who would have been homely in a flock of cranes, because I had
                            a wife here in the States."
                        Then Garrick told Mark Twain's jumping Frog Story with variations adapted
                            to the country of Illinois; and Van Abering propounded idealistic
                            philosophy, and tried to make us believe that nothing existed but ideas,
                            that the very pictures were not there, but in our heads.
                        "Well, do our heads exist?" asked Avonill.
                        "Nothing but ideas exists," answered Van Abering.
                        
                        "I thought you said that ideas were in our heads," retorted Avonill, and
                            we had the laugh on Van Abering, who didn't like to be laughed at.
                        Then Avonill sang "Dixie," "Massa's Body," "Old Kentucky Home," "Swanee
                            Ribber," and other songs that the Southern children learn while they are
                            still teething, accompanying himself on the piano, which stood in the
                            drawing-room near the library door. I never felt so homesick as when he
                            came to the words: "Far, far away," and "All de world am sad and
                            dreary"; for though his voice was not strong, it was as soft and rich in
                            tone as any I ever heard in a drawing-room; and being a sentimental sort
                            of chap, he felt his own music, as did every one else.
                        Finally, the madame sent in a dainty luncheon (much too dainty for our
                            appetites); after which, as usual, the others settled themselves for
                            whist; while I loitered about the room looking at the books, or had a
                            tête-à-tête with the madame if she happened to be  in. Avonill and the old lieutenant played against Van
                            Abering and Garrick. They played in silence for a while, when Avonill
                            began to make innocent sport of Van Abering, because he and his partner
                            had been losing.
                        "You don't play well," he observed, in good-humored sarcasm.
                        Like a flash this struck Van Abering's sensitive nature. "Whom do you
                            mean?" he said, and the blood rose into his colorless face.
                        "You! whom do you think?" said Avonill, carelessly; then turning to
                            Garrick, who was shuffling the cards, he insisted that it was his
                            deal.
                        Garrick gave up the cards, and the game proceeded as before; except that
                            Van Abering remained silent and did not once look at Avonill, who sat on
                            his right; and who, judging from his continued jollity, was wholly
                            unaware that he had offeded any one. But Van Abering sat like one
                            stricken with cata lepsy, his face growing paler with every jest  from his opponent. It soon came Van
                            Abering's deal. Diamonds were trumps. They had played around, dividing
                            the spoils, until each player had one card left, except Avonill, who had
                            none. Van Abering led the eight of hearts, the lieutenant put on the ten
                            of hearts, Garrick played the tray of diamonds, and was about to take
                            the trick, when Avonill shouted, "Misdeal! I have no card," at the same
                            time taking the nine of diamonds from Van Abering's lap. Avonill dropped
                            the nine spot on the table, arose quietly, turned, winked to me and the
                            madame, and said, "Gentlemen, that looks as if the cards had been poorly
                            fixed up."
                        Van Abering sprang to his feet, his chair falling to the floor behind
                            him. "Do you mean to say that I dealt the cards dishonestly?" There was
                            that same ugly ex- pression in his face. He trembled like a leaf, and
                            stared like a savage into his accuser's face.
                        "Good heavens!" cried the madame, leaving the room.
                        
                        Avonill, indiscreetly carrying the jest farther, said, "Well, it
                            looks--"
                        Van Abering heaved like one bereft of his reason, and seizing a poniard
                            that lay among the oriental weapons on a stand by his left, started
                            towards him.
                        Ugh! it was disgrace!
                        "What do you mean" demanded the old lieutenant, and in an instant he was
                            on his feet, pushed Avonill into a corner and faced Van Abering. "Put
                            away that dagger, and don't make a fool of yourself! You had better
                            leave the room--or the house, if you like."
                        Van Abering walked unsteadily to the door, turned, and hissing through
                            his teeth, "We shall see each other again," went to our rooms. A few
                            moments later the street door was heard to open and close.
                        It was all over in a flash. We were all so dumbfounded that for at least
                            a minute no one spoke. "
                        "What a fool!" exclaimed the old officer.
                        "He must be insane," observed Garrick, 
                            3collecting his senses. "Whoever saw such an exhibition of passion!"
                        Avonill said nothing, though he looked like one dazed by a blow. This
                            look in Van Abering's face was new to him. As said before, one never
                            forgot it. In an instant almost, a good friend and companion was changed
                            into a savage leopard, a wild cat of the jungles.
                        "This is a disgrace," said the officer. "It must be kept among ourselves.
                            If it had been an arranged encounter on a fair field, it would have been
                            different--but here in the house!"
                        I did not feel that I had anything to say, as Henry Van Abering was my
                            room-mate and my closest friend.
                        Presently Avonill arose, said, "Good night," in a dignified and
                            self-sufficient manner, and left the room. He also seemed now changed ;
                            he had never before worn so resolute a countenance.
                        "I believe I'll follow Van Abering and try to straighten out things
                            between them--  explain that Francis was in
                            fun," said Garrick, still agitated.
                        "No," said the old officer, "it would be too dangerous a task for so
                            unworthy a prize. He has lost his reason. I never saw any thing like it
                            in my life."
                        I could not help it that this estimate of my room-mate hurt me; but I
                            agreed with the old officer that to follow him was not safe.
                        Van Abering did not come home that night.
                    
                    
                        IV.
                        The next night Avonill was out until nearly two o'clock.
                        The second morning later, the old lieutenant left the house before
                            daybreak--a thing he was never known to have done before.
                        On the third night, Avonill and the old officer came in together, about
                            one o'cock, and retreated to the former's rooms. I went down to ask if
                            they had learned anything concerning Van Abering. As I was approaching
                            the door, which was partially open, I 
                            heard the old officer say, earnestly, "Of course, it is just the place,
                            within the old fort--the island is absolutely deserted."
                        "Have they agreed?" inquired Avonill.
                        "It was their proposition," replied the old officer.
                        I knocked, the conversation ended abruptly; I went in and asked my
                            question, to which both replied that they had not heard or seen anything
                            of Van Abering. Avonill's face was greatly changed, and the old officer
                            was a little nervous with excitement. I at once left them to themselves,
                            for it was evident that they were intent upon private matters.
                        On the morning of the fourth day it began to snow; and at about three
                            o'cock a darky appeared at the door, to whom the madame gave Van
                            Abering's long storm-cape. It stopped snowing in the evening.
                        On the afternoon of the fifth day--Saturday-the old officer bade the
                            madame good-bye; saying, as he went away, that he would be back from the
                            hills as quickly as possible--perhaps the day after tomorrow,  and that he hoped to bring some game,
                            too.
                        Avonill had not been in the house since morning; and Van Abering had not
                            been seen since the night of the affair in the old officer's
                            library.
                    
                    
                        V.
                        At nightfall, a small bent man was prying at a porthole in the old
                            deserted fort on Castle Island, which stands out in the harbor about a
                            half mile from the mainland.
                        Several hours later, a figure was crouching behind the statue of
                            Farragut, at the foot of the bridge leading from the mainland to the
                            island, as a mounted policeman galloped by on his beat. A few seconds
                            later a skiff emerged for a moment from among the piers of the bridge,
                            and the person behind the statue, wrapped in a long storm-cape, ran
                            across the dimly moonlit road, and disappeared in the shadow where the
                            skiff had receded. All was silent for a little while, when presently
                            oars were heard plying  with all their
                            might in the direction of Castle Island. The tall figure in the
                            storm-cape sat in the stern of the skiff while a muscular man did the
                            rowing.
                        Behind them lay Boston; to the north, through the still cold atmosphere,
                            shone the myriad lights of Charlestown, Chelsea, East Boston, and
                            Winthrop; in front, the alternating red and white flames on the
                            lighthouse of Deer Island guided them in their course. With every stroke
                            the skif was making rapid strides towards the open sea, fully one
                            hundred yards from the pier leading in the same direction. They would
                            reach the island in twenty minutes, they thought ; when suddenly a
                            bitter cold gale from the north hurled the fragile boat in the direction
                            of the pier. The oarsman fought the contending currents, the wind, and
                            the broken waves, with all his power, but to no avail; one surge after
                            another carried them upon the pier.
                        "Pull for your life," cried the man in the stern, half rising to his
                            feet.
                        
                        At the same moment, a skiff left Governor's Island, with its bow directed
                            toward the south. The wind and currents which were playing havoc with
                            the other skiff, carried this one with double rapidity; and in fifteen
                            minutes it landed among the snow-covered rocks at the northeast corner
                            of Castle Island. Two men alighted, hastened toward the fort, and
                            climbed through the open port-hole in the east wall, facing the sea.
                        "Who's there?" said a voice within.
                        "Avonill and the oarsman."
                        "Very well, make haste. It is turning colder. Let us go to our post at
                            once; the time will soon be up," said the old man; and the three started
                            towards the southeast corner of the fort. When they emerged from the
                            shadow of the wall, the moonlight shone on none other than the old naval
                            officer, who seemed younger than ever, and in his element.
                        By night--especially by winter night, Castle Island is as isolated as an
                            island in the heart of the Pacific. Excepting a single old  United States sergeant, it is devoid of
                            life; and only suggests its former glory by old grass-grown Fort
                            Independence, thirty or forty heavy artillery pieces lying about, and
                            two earthen powder magazines. An acre and a half of uncovered ground lie
                            within the huge stone walls of the old fort; and on this wintry night, a
                            full moon shed its light upon the untrampled snow of this spacious
                            arena; a north wind piped merrily over the high walls, mingling with the
                            splashes and gurgling of the giddy waves as they washed the beach of
                            frozen stones.
                        "What time is it?" asked Avonill.
                        A moment later the bells of thirty towers in the distant cities tolled
                            the hour of twelve.
                        They had gained the southeast corner. The old officer led through an
                            opening in the south wall into a stone cell, where a warm fire burned in
                            a fireplace that had been cold since the War of the Rebellion, when the
                            Confederate woman spy William Boyd was imprisoned on the spot where they
                            stood.
                        
                        "Wait here until you hear the signal," said the old officer, "then come
                            at once, prepared; and do not forget what I have told you ; this is the
                            real thing--the final hour!" So saying, he left Avonill and the oarsman,
                            and started in a northwestern direction across the fort field. Before he
                            had gained the other side, two persons were climbing down the wall in
                            front of him ; reaching the ground one advanced toward him, and the
                            other disappeared in the shadow.
                        "Ah! you have beaten us in point of time," said the stranger, giving his
                            hand to the lieutenant.
                        "Yes, let us make haste."
                        "Presently," said the stranger, "we shall be ready presently. Here is
                            your guard," and he gave the lieutenant a long slender cane.
                        They walked towards the centre of the field, neither uttering a word,
                            till the stranger broke the silence by saying, "We are ready now." The
                            old officer gave a shrill whistle, and for twenty seconds the two stood eagerly looking towards their
                            respective corners.
                        From the northwest corner, dressed in dark trousers, a white shirt open
                            at the breast, and bareheaded, in measured steps, came Henry Van
                            Abering. He stopped about fifty feet from the two, and stood in the
                            cold, almost naked, as silent as a statue. An instant later, Avonill
                            appeared in his overcoat, which he dropped at about the same distance on
                            the other side.
                        "Are you ready?" asked the stranger.
                        "Yes," answered Van Abering.
                        Avonill was mute.
                        "Then come forward."
                        Both advanced, took a rapier from the stranger's hand, and fell back
                            about ten feet. The old officer and the stranger moved quickly on either
                            side.
                        "Ready," said Van Abering's second, and the game begins.
                        Avonill moves forward slowly, rolling up his right sleeve; Van Abering
                            comes with a bound; the blades are crossed at the point;  and the latter begins a ferocious
                            aggression, forcing Avonill backward, one step after another.
                        "Stand your ground and fight!i" cries Van Abering, feigning to
                            thrust.
                        Avonill fences like a master, parrying first to the right then to the
                            left, but with less rapidity than his antagonist, who becomes more
                            feline every second, avoiding punishment by cunningly veering from one
                            position to another. The blood begins to trickle from his bitten lips.
                            He is pricked on the right shoulder by his enemy's point, and wards off
                            a second keen thrust with his left arm.
                        "Fence fair, you coward!" commands Avonill, jumping aside and recovering
                            his guard.
                        Van Abering assumes the aggressive again, and thrice does he thrust,
                            leaping like a leopard towards his enemy, following with two blows;
                            Avonill stands his ground and the glittering blades are bound at the
                            hilt. Both recover their guards ; and Avonill, hugging his antagonist's
                            sword, maneuvers for an  opening--drops his
                            rapier, and sinks to the ground. It was so quick the old lieutenant did
                            not see it.
                        "In the abdomen," cries Van Abering's second, as they run toward the
                            northwest wall, while Avonill lies bleeding in the snow.
                    
                    
                        VI.
                        On Monday, the seventh day after the affair in the old lieutenant's
                            library, I was sitting in our rooms, studying, when Garrick came running
                            in.
                        "What on earth does this mean" he exclaimed, holding out a letter to me.
                            "Where is Henry?"
                        "He hasn't been here for a week; I don't know where he is," I said,
                            taking the letter.
                        It was from Avonill, asking Garrick to come to see him at once, at the
                            Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.
                        Garrick looked at me significantly and said, "I have not seen Avonill
                            since Saturday morning. I shall go to the hospital at once," and he
                            hurried off very nervous.
                        
                        There were three letters from New York lying on Van Abering's desk,
                            evidently from his mother or sister, for they were in a woman's
                            handwriting; and in the afternoon a telegram came addressed to him. I
                            was assured that it was now time to endeavor to find my room-mate; so
                            about three o'clock in the afternoon, I proceeded the rounds of the
                            dormitories, inquiring of our friends whether they had seen him. No one
                            could remember to have seen him for several days; and the roll books
                            showed that he had been absent from his classes since the early part of
                            the week before, a fact corresponding singularly with the affair in the
                            old officer's library, which had happened on Monday night. After a
                            useless search of every nook and corner where I fancied my room-mate
                            might be, I returned to our rooms about eight o'clock in the evening,
                            tired and worn, and threw myself upon the couch, when presently there
                            came a tapping at my door.
                        "Come in."
                        The old officer entered. After saying, 
                            "Good evening," in his polite way, he handed me telegram. "It came this
                            afternoon; I signed for you."
                        It was from Van Abering's mother, asking me if anything had happened to
                            her son, saying that he had not written for some time, that she was very
                            anxious about him, and that I should be kind enough to write her at
                            once, since she had been unable to persuade her son to do so.
                        I turned to the old officer and asked him if he knew where Van Abering
                            was; but before he had time to answer, Garrick came in.
                        "Well, what was ailing Avonill ?" I asked.
                        "He is very sick."
                        "Is he no better?" asked the old lieutenant, somewhat disconcerted.
                        "No, he is worse."
                        "What ails him?" I repeated.
                        "Some internal trouble that might happen to anybody, he told me,"
                            answered Garrick.
                        "Good night," said the old lieutenant, going to the door, much relieved
                            to know  that it was something that might
                            happen to anybody, and that Avonill had kept the faith.
                        After Garrick and I talked over the things that had happened, being
                            unable to make out either heads or tails, he went to his room, and I sat
                            down to write to Mrs. Van Abering. I told her what I knew,--which was
                            very little compared with all that had happened,--that Henry had not
                            been about the rooms or attended recitations and lectures for several
                            days, that no one had seen him, and that about a week ago he had
                            quarrelled with a friend. I tried to write as encouragingly as I could,
                            and suggested that perhaps he might be taking a hunting trip up in the
                            Adirondacks, as I had heard him speak of wishing to do.
                        Three days more passed ; but Van Abering did not return. Avonill's
                            condition remained about the same. Though we had not been admitted to
                            see him, we made daily inquiries at the hospital. On this day I received
                            a telegram, asking me to come to New York, that Mrs. Van Abering wished
                            to see me,  that as yet no word had come
                            from Henry,--signed, "Rosamond Van Abering." This was evidently Henry's
                            sister. I wired her that I should arrive in the morning by the Fall
                            River Line.
                        It was a bright morning for winter time, when I found myself wandering
                            upon the Fall River dock, trying to decide in my mind of which person to
                            ask directions, when presently a coachman presented himself and
                            pronounced my name.
                        "Yes," I said. I suppose he knew me from the initials on my dressing
                            case.
                        "I wil take you in the carriage. Let me have your grip. Have you any
                            other baggage?" he asked.
                        I assured him that I had not, and in a few moments I was rolling over the
                            streets of New York, down Broadway, past Union Square and Madison
                            Square, into Fifth Avenue. The carriage finally stopped before a
                            spacious house, and I was led into a magnificently decorated
                            drawing-room. Despite the earliness of the hour, an adjoining  door opened in a moment and a matronly
                            woman of about forty-five gave me her hand. From the appearance of a
                            girl, who passed the door just opened, I could tell, before the lady
                            spoke, that these were the mother and sister of my room-mate. The
                            mother, whose hair was prematurely gray, but whose face and demeanor
                            were those of a woman who this world, still holding my hand, and with a
                            look of deepest maternal feeling, said:--
                        "You will pardon us for calling you here; you see Henry is very dear to
                            me, he is my only son; and what you have written me, and his failure to
                            let me know where he is, have grieved me greatly." Then calling me by
                            name, "Have you anything additional to tell us?" she asked, beseechingly
                            looking into my eyes.
                        "No," I answered, "nothing."
                        Just then the daughter came in. She was the picture of her brother;
                            except that she was fairer in complexion, not quite so tall, and a
                            little heavier; but with the same raven 
                            hair and high cheek bones. She greeted me without waiting for an
                            introduction. One could see from her eyes and face that she had slept
                            little of late, and was as anxious as her mother about what had
                            happened.
                        They sat very near to me, and were eager with attention, while I recited
                            again all that knew. I told of Henry's quarrel, and related for the
                            first time his attempt on Avonill's life in the old offcer's study; but
                            I mentioned no names. I scarcely had the heart to tell it, for it seemed
                            infidelity to my room-mate, and would cause additional anxiety on the
                            part of the mother and sister; but they insisted that I should omit
                            nothing. The girl had tears in her eyes, and the mother's face betrayed
                            a mingling of shame and of anxious sorrow--shame for anything that
                            savored of bravado, and anxious sorrow for the love she bore her
                            son.
                        "Oh! mamma, what shall we do ?" exclaimed the girl.
                        The mother made no reply; but sat looking into space. She seemed to have
                            a  deeper understanding of the
                            demonstration of wrath made by her son, and of his absence, than either
                            the girl or myself; she seemed to understand something that we did not.
                            What excited mystery in the girl that her brother should have acted
                            thus, seemed only to confirm the mother in her judgments; and as we
                            started for breakfast soon after, she asked me to hold the matter in
                            confidence, and to remain with them until they had at least made some
                            progress toward finding her son.
                        After we had breakfasted, I wrote letters to every person I could think
                            of with whom there was any possibility that Henry might be staying; and
                            Mrs. Van Abering did the same. The letters were so written that no
                            suspicion might be aroused on the part of the recipients.
                        I called at the apartments every afternoon and evening, at which times we
                            developed further plans and I reported anything new that I had learned.
                            I confess that the anxiety betrayed by the mother and sister  seemed to me unwarranted, for I believed
                            that in due time Henry would make his appearance.
                        One evening when I called, Mrs. Van Abering had gone out to seek relief
                            in the company of some friends, and I was received by Miss Van
                            Abering.
                        "Come, let us go into the library," she said, it is cosier. You must not
                            think us cowardly," she continued presently, "in our worrying about
                            Henry; call it rather over-indulgence in our love for him; but you
                            see--I ought not to tell it, perhaps; but you have been so kind to help
                            us--Henry did this once before, when he was quite small. He quarreled
                            with papa, and five days later was found in Brooklyn."
                        This girl had a weird, dark, and careless kind of beauty; and in her
                            conversation she was as naïve as a child, and very daring. "What must
                            she be in her gayer moments!" thought I. Or was it her melancholy that
                            enlisted my feeling. I own she attracted me. But so long as one is
                            silent about such  things--especially to
                            the girl--it doesn't matter, I suppose; for as time goes apace, he finds
                            that his affections have outwitted him, and that he has had this same
                            ailment before--perhaps to the number of twenty times ere he has scaled
                            that many years. I had not been long in their apartments before I
                            understood, from different things Miss Van Abering said, and from the
                            frequent presence of a noble-looking young gentleman, that there were
                            other considerations which made the sudden disappearance of her brother
                            of double importance to her.
                        Seeming to surmise that I understood her inner thoughts, she said,
                            presently, handing me a photograph of the young man: "This is Mr.
                            Buchtel. You see how important it is that no harm has befallen my
                            brother; because "--and then she looked away from me--"because--because
                            we are to be married in a month." From the manner in which she spoke of
                            Mr. Emery Buchtel, and the fondness with which she lingered on topics
                            not foreign to him, I readily under-  stood
                            that the realization of the love of that attachment must have been the
                            dream of her life. She was not more than twenty, and like her mother,
                            had been reared among the best that wealth and gentle environments can
                            give.
                        I had now an additional motive to find Henry Van Abering.
                    
                    
                        VII.
                        On Sunday afternoon, we were driven to Greenwood Cemetery, Brooklyn.
                            Although it was a pleasant late winter afternoon, it was too cold to
                            remain outdoors very long for pleasure; but it was not a pleasure drive;
                            the burden had become too great for Mrs. Van Abering, and she sought
                            comfort by the grave of her husband. "Silent comforter, indeed," thought
                            I, as we stood before the tombs of the Van Aberings, upon the frozen
                            ground of one of which Mrs. Van Abering strewed some flowers. How
                            tenderly her husband must have cared for her in years gone by; so that
                            now, long after his death,  when sorrow
                            came, she sought his counsel and protection, as she had done when he
                            still abode near her side. She had lived for him, and now all that
                            remained of the life of the past were her son and daughter. Widow-hood
                            had increased the sentiment of maternity in her heart, and the happiness
                            she once found in her husband was born again in her children. How
                            jealously, therefore, she loved her son! and if the cruel archer of
                            destiny had now shot at him, it was too late in life to leave a wound
                            that time could heal.
                        Never shall I forget her as she stood there against the gray sky of
                            failing winter, as silent as the tombs about her, her hands folded in
                            front, and her face colorless in the chill of the bleak winds. Presently
                            her downcast countenance was raised; and she seemed to receive hope from
                            above, which she could not find in the desolation of the grave. Turning
                            toward us, she said softly to her daughter, "I shall come back in a few
                            moments, stay till I return." She walked slowly to the coach and direced
                            the driver.
                        
                        "This is my great-grandfather's grave," said the girl, in a voice which
                            showed that she had not felt deeply like her mother. The cemetery to her
                            was only a place where people are buried; she had not yet seen love and
                            hope and all that makes us want to live vanish like the final hour of
                            one condemned to die. "This is my grandfathers sister's," she continued,
                            pointing to another; and here lies my grandfather."
                        The grandfathers tomb read:--
                        ERECTED TO THE MEMORY
                        OF
                        GUIDO ANDREAS VAN ABERING.
                        Born 1802.
                        Died 1859.
                        
                            "None but the brave deserve the fair."
                        
                        "Your grandfather must have been a soldier."
                        "No," said the girl, "I think he was never a soldier. He was a business
                            man like papa. Do you see those three diamonds down below?"
                        
                        "Where?"
                        "There in the center, where I am pointing."
                        "Yes."
                        "Do you know what they are?"
                        "No," I answered, "I haven't any idea."
                        "Well, I will tell you," and then she smiled at having aroused my
                            curiosity, "I don't know myself."
                        While we were still talking about the diamonds on the grandfather's tomb,
                            and wondering what they might indicate, Mrs. Van Abering returned.
                            Hearing the subject of our conversation, she seemed to wish to change
                            it, and made some remark to Miss Van Abering about other matters.
                        "Mamma, didn't you ever know what those diamonds on grandfather's grave
                            mean?" persisted the girl, as we entered the coach to start back.
                        'No," returned Mrs. Van Abering, kindly.
                        "Didn't papa know either?"
                        "No, I suppose he didn't know," replied the mother, evidently trying to
                            think of some-  thing else to say; for, it
                            seemed, the marks on the grandfathers grave were either somewhat
                            shrouded in mystery, or, in the mother's opinion, were not a subject for
                            her daughter's curiosity and inspection.
                        "Who put them there" she continued, after a few moments' meditation.
                        "It was your grandfather's wish," replied the mother, "that is all I
                            know, my child;" but from the expression of her countenance, where truth
                            and maternal duty seemed at strife, it was evident that that was by no
                            means the extent of her knowledge concerning the three diamonds on the
                            tomb of the grandfather.
                        The first delivery of mail on Monday morning brought me this letter:-- 
                                
                                    
                                        I have just heard of Van Abering. He is with my uncle,
                                            near Decatur, Illinois--think of it!--going to see his
                                            land in Logan County. My uncle says he is sick, and that
                                            he requested him not to write anybody that he is there.
                                            Say--if you know what all this fuss about Van Abering
                                            means, I want  to know--do
                                            you hear? Francis was worse this morning. Poor
                                            Francis!
                                        Good-bye, old fellow.
                                        WILLIAM GARRICK."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        Mrs. Van Abering and Rosamond received the news with no little emotion. I
                            did not mention Henry's illness. They cried and embraced each other,
                            then laughed a little and cried again--all for joy! It would have been
                            discourteous to smile at them in their happiness; and it was with
                            difficulty that I restrained an expression of my amusement. Women are
                            not to be looked at without danger to one's esthetic notions when they
                            reverse the tenor of their emotions frequently. "All this anxiety for
                            nothing!" thought I. But I was wrong; their emotions had been wiser than
                            my judgment; it was not all over, as I thought. There was one duty yet
                            that was to try to induce Henry to return home.
                        "Now, one thing more we have to beg of you," said Mrs. Van Abering,
                            hesitatingly, turning to me, when the first emotions had  passed. "Will you go and bring Henry back
                            to us?"
                        I said that I should be glad to, if it were in my power.
                        "We will reward you for your kindness," continued the mother,
                            uncertainly, fearing that she might offend.
                        I assured her that what I had done was for the sympathy I had had in
                            their anxiety and the affection I bore my room-mate, and that I should
                            gladly go to Illinois at once, and try to persuade Henry to return to
                            New York.
                        No time was lost. After I telegraphed Garrick (that I was going to his
                            uncle's home, and that he could reach me there or at the Van Abering
                            farms, if he found it necessary on any account to write me), Mrs. and
                            Miss Van Abering accompanied me in a carriage to the station from which
                            I was to take my departure for Illinois. Mrs. Van Abering was liberal
                            and sincere in her expressions of gratitude; and Rosamond, as I was
                            about to alight from the carriage, clung a 
                            moment to my hand, and said, "Bring Henry back"--then with a twinkle in
                            her eyes and a secret smile about her lips-- "and come to us again--in a
                            month come to me often."
                    
                    
                        VIII.
                        In room number thirty-nine of the Massachusetts General Hospital lay John
                            Francis Avonill, pale and thin, now the eleventh day. It was dark and
                            gloomy without, the moaning of the wind and the cheerless view of the
                            sky through the window, sank his once buoyant spirits to their lowest
                            depths. At about two o'clock in the afternoon, he moved slightly, opened
                            his eyes, and said to the nurse, "Did you have the message sent?" His
                            voice was weak, and he spoke very slowly.
                        "Yes, it went at ten this morning," replied the good woman.
                        "Has no one asked to see me?"
                        "No, no one."
                        He closed his eyes again, and apparently went to sleep.
                        
                        At five o'clock he repeated the questions, and again at six.
                        At a little after eight, there came a soft tapping at the door, and the
                            nurse admitted a gentleman into the room, which was now dark. He quietly
                            took a chair beside the bed, as the nurse turned on the lights. It was
                            Mr. Emery Buchtel of New York.
                        "Francis, what is the trouble? I didn't know you were sick," he said,
                            deeply moved at Avonill's appearance.
                        Avonill took his thin, white hand from under the covers, placed it in his
                            visitor's, and looking up at the enurse said, "We want to be alone for a
                            while."
                        The nurse retired.
                        Mr. Emery Buchtel was a full-blooded youth of twenty-five. His florid
                            face was somewhat white now, as if he were laboring under great
                            anxiety.
                        "Emery," said Avonill, at length, ,we haven't seen each other for a long
                            time--have we?"
                        
                        "No, but you can't imagine how grieved I am to see you in this
                            condition."
                        "I have sent for you to come and stay with me a little while."
                        "Yes, I will stay till you are well. Why didn't you send for me sooner? I
                            didn't know you were sick. What is the trouble?"
                        "Wait; no haste," replied Avonill in a slow, resigned voice. "I will tell
                            you all; you must give me time." He stopped a moment to catch his
                            breath, then continued, gripping his visitor's hand more firmly, "You
                            are my nearest kinsman, Emery, besides my father--as you may, perhaps,
                            still remember."
                        "Yes, my boy, I have kept that much track of you; and I
                            will do anything for you," said Buchtel, anxiously smoothing Avonill's
                            forehead.
                        "We played together when we were children--didn't we?" said Avonill, the
                            panorama of his childhood passing before his closed eyes.
                        "Yes."
                        
                        "And I have sent for you, Emery, to tell you that--that I shall never get
                            well."
                        Buchtel thought to make some encouraging remark ; but the death-like
                            pallor of his kinsman's face did not warrant it. "You have sent for your
                            father, of course?" he asked.
                        "No," replied Avonill, because I could not tell him what has happened. I
                            am going to tell you; that is why I have sent for you; and if when I am
                            gone there is ever need that it should be known, you will tell or be
                            silent, as you see fit."
                        Wholly unused to this sort of experience, and having a tender affection
                            for his relative from the memory of childhood, young Buchtel was
                            burdened with emotions that did not readily find words, especially as he
                            was not demonstrative and was slow in speech; he therefore sat
                            silent.
                        Avonill related the affairs in the old lieutenant's library and on Castle
                            Island, stopping frequently to regain his breath. He made no reference
                            to Van Abering, beyond saying that his antagonist was known to be  linked with such a temper that when
                            crossed he resembled a savage rather than a human being, and that the
                            affair had arisen on that account.
                        "He must be prosecuted!" said Buchtel.
                        "No. We are equally guilty, except that I am additionally guilty of poor
                            fencing," continued Avonill, jesting even on his last bed.
                        The nurse entered the room and said : "Too much conversation will make
                            you worse. Don't you think you had better stop now?"
                        "I will go;" said Buchtel, "and come back to-morrow; but tell me first
                            who this villain is." His indignation found expression more readily than
                            his sympathy, and was fully as great.
                        "That doesn't matter much, Emery; it was a fellow student by the name of
                            Van Abering."
                    
                    
                    
                        IX.
                        There was nothing that distinguished my journey to Chicago, except that I
                            was taken in turn for the poet James Whitcomb Riley, the porter of the
                            coach, and the papa of an innocent little baby that nestled in its
                            mamma's lap in the seat opposite. Of the three enviable personages, I
                            was in doubt as to which flattered me most; but (though I greatly admire
                            Mr. Riley) I believe it was the innocent little baby that continually
                            looked over and called me papa. I changed cars in Chicago, and arrived
                            in Decatur at night, where I stopped at a hotel that was under-going
                            repairs, "The St. Nicholas," if I remember rightly.
                        In the morning, I hired a carriage and a driver who was familiar with the
                            surrounding country, and began my search for the home of Garrick's uncle
                            (who bore the same name), in a northeastern direction, on the east bank
                            of the Sangamon River, about ten miles distant.
                        
                        At noon, after four miles of useless driving, five different guides, and
                            ten miles of cold feet, we halted before a large, white, orderly-looking
                            farm house, partially hidden amid a cluster of evergreens. In the
                            back-ground, a windmill rattled, a spacious red barn shone in the winter
                            sun, and a symphony of barking, cackling, bleating, lowing, and
                            cow-bells, gave lustre and life to the solitary surroundings. East of
                            the house, a little boy was driving sheep, under the loud command of
                            Garrick's uncle, who stood, pants in boots and erect like a general,
                            beside a last year's straw stack. I shivered myself around the side of
                            the house, and knocked. Presently the door was opened by a calico
                            dressed old lady, whose spectacles were poised so far on the end of her
                            ample nose that she had to hold her head back to keep them on and to get
                            a look at me through the lenses--or lens, for I believe one was
                            missing.
                        "Does Mr. Garrick live here?"
                        "Yes," replied the good old lady, her head 
                            falling back and her mouth opening generously, "did you want to see
                            him?"
                        "Yes."
                        "Well, come into the house. You look cold."
                        I went into the warm room, looked about; but didn't see Van Abering. In a
                            short time Mr. Garrick came. There was that sort of genuineness in the
                            hearty reception which he gave me that compensated for the cold ride. He
                            asked about his nephew, about Avonill, made apologies for his
                            appearance, presented me to the other members of the family, ordered two
                            extra chickens for dinner, brought some home-made wine, and bestirred
                            himself and the entire household as if I were the preacher or the
                            congressman's son. He couldn't imagine why I had come; but I could tell
                            that he didn't want to ask.
                        Presently he said, "Henry Van Abering is with us."
                        "Yes, I know," I said. "Where is he?"
                        "He took his gun for a hunt; he generally 
                            comes back about sundown," replied Mr. Garrick.
                        About five o'clock in the evening, I was rocking over the rag carpet,
                            before the large open fire-place (in form much like those on Fifth
                            Avenue), observing a gaudily colored picture of the Brooklyn Bridge that
                            hung on the wall, when the door opened, and in walked Henry Van Abering.
                            Except a scanty black beard that covered his face, and old clothes, he
                            looked about as usual.
                        I turned, stood before him, offered my hand, and said, "Henry, how are
                            you?"
                        Dropping his hat to the floor, he took my hand, and replied, after a
                            moment's silence, "I know why you have come." There was no lustre in his
                            voice and countenance; they were resigned and dead. "You came to tell me
                            that the authorities want me," he continued in a low voice, as if
                            fearing to be overheard.
                        "Yes, the highest authorities."
                        He looked me straight in the eye.
                        "Your mother and sister."
                        
                        There was evident relief at this, and he gave me his hand again; but he
                            did not say much more. The great change which had overtaken his
                            disposition and what he had said about the authorities were alike
                            mysterious and inexplicable to me.
                        In the evening after supper, we sat together in a room upstairs, where a
                            glowing fire had been built some hours before. He asked very
                            affectionately of his mother and sister, and how I had come to go to New
                            York, and of the affairs about the college. He spoke very kindly
                            throughout, and confessed that he was glad to see me.
                        "Henry," I said, at an opportune moment, "your mother and sister have
                            sent me here to ask you to come home."
                        He shook his head, as much as to say, "I wish I could; but that would be
                            impossible." "Some day," he said, still more resigned, "I will tell you
                            what my greatest enemy has done."
                        "Who is he?" I asked, thinking of poor Avonill.
                        
                        "It is myself," he said, walking to the window, and looking out into the
                            night, to hide his emotion, "it is myself, it is a part of me that makes
                            me different without my will. It must be my blood."
                        I understood that he referred to his temper; he had spoken more truly
                            than either he or I knew; but not more truly than his mother knew, and
                            we were yet to learn. He was more reticent this evening than I had ever
                            seen him before; he walked up and down the room and frequently looked
                            out the window into the cheerless night. Once, after a long silence,
                            still facing the window, he said, partially to me, but perhaps more to
                            himself, "And we are to know ourselves."
                        A stranger would not have understood what he meant. I had been long
                            enough around him to know that he was looking within, endeavoring to
                            comprehend the demon that at times rankled in his breast. He knew
                            himself inseparably bound to an uncontrolable temper; which his
                            excellent breeding, in better moments, caused him to  loathe; and which made him at times as
                            melancholy as the mystery of its origin, development, and hold on him
                            made him distrustful of himself.
                        "I am not fit to live among others," he said, again at the window. "I
                            will live alone."
                        I tried to think of something to say in order to recall him from the
                            misery of his introspection and melancholy--but what? I thought that
                            cards might occupy his mind, and I said, "Henry, will you play a few
                            games of hearts or euchre or anything you wish?"
                        He dropped into a chair, as much as to acquiesce; but the games dragged
                            heavily; he was not thinking of cards, and played like a novice.
                        "Let us stop," he said, after we had played a short time. "I believe I
                            will go to bed," and he arose and started toward the door.
                        "Wait," I said, thinking of his mother and sister.
                        He turned.
                        
                        "Won't you promise to go back to New York with me to-morrow?"
                        "No," he replied, in cold resignation, "I am going to drive to my
                            mother's farms, and there I shall always stay. Good night," and be
                            closed the door. There was the same chill in his voice, as if his heart
                            were frozen in the contemplation of the self-imposed monotony of life
                            that stretched out before him, and that was to expiate and render
                            harmless his mysterious unruly nature.
                        "Goodnight," I said, feeling that I had failed in my mission ; and, with
                            a heavy heart, I wrote Mrs. Van Abering a letter, far more hopeful in
                            its nature than the situation warranted, but I had not the courage to do
                            otherwise.
                    
                    
                        X.
                        We found ourselves around the breakfast table about seven o'clock--Henry
                            Van Abering, Mr. Garrick, Mrs. Garrick, the little girls, the little
                            boys, the big girls, the big  boys, and
                            myself. Henry had already told Mr. Garrick of his intention to drive
                            that day to his mother's farms in Logan County. After breakfast he said
                            that, if I chose, I might accompany him. A good horse and a sort of
                            old-fashioned carriage were ready for us at ten o'clock, when we said
                            good-bye to the kith and kin of Mr. Garrick. Though Van Abering had been
                            about as glum as a monk, a kind of attachment had grown up between him
                            and the farmer; and it was with true affection that the old man held his
                            hand and said, "Good-bye" and "take care of yourself."
                        The sun shone warmer than on the day before, thawing the frosts of a long
                            winter ; the North had milder breath and blew less persistently; and on
                            hillsides and in fence corners lingered only scanty vestiges of the
                            snowy winter. We had forty miles before us; but since the gloom had
                            lifted somewhat from Van Abering's spirits, and we were going into a
                            country hitherto untravelled by us, which inspired the tingling
                            sensation of ad-  venture, the journey did
                            not seem long or devoid of possible pleasure. We started, according to
                            Mr. Garrick's commands, in a northwestern direction, toward Logan
                            County. We crossed an old moss-grown bridge that looked like a remnant
                            of prehistoric times, beneath which the river Sangamon hummed its
                            ancient music, as it did in the days when Abraham Lincoln plied on its
                            eddies. A long and beautiful road stretched before us; on either side,
                            after the dismal death of winter, nature seemed turning again in her
                            grave for a timely resurrection ; the green meadows contrasted
                            strikingly with the white snow of the hillsides and the gloom of the
                            sombre forests.
                        The scene appealed to Van Abering no less than to me--perhaps more. He
                            spoke of the regeneration of nature, and wondered what life would be if
                            we could be likewise renewed in youth and power. His brooding over the
                            strangeness of his own nature had made him older than he should have
                            been for his years; and he, therefore, took the  scene more seriously than I. It was indeed a beautiful
                            morning--different than I had ever seen before; for in the city the
                            transition from winter to spring is not so visible. It was too good to
                            last.
                        Van Abering told me all that he knew about the extent of his mother's
                            land, which comprised between two and three thousand acres, being the
                            remnant of a much larger tract that came into the estate during the life
                            of his grandfather, Guido Andreas Van Abering. Beyond this, the
                            situation of the land, and the name of the principal tenant, he knew
                            nothing.
                        One by one the miles receded in the distance. When one of us was cold, he
                            ran along beside the carriage until the blood coursed in his veins with
                            greater celerity. We discussed every subject from the pains of toothache
                            to the supposed rights of the English government to grasp all the
                            available territory of the earth, and the improvements we should make in
                            the construction of the universe were the matter left in our hands.  At twelve o'clock we stopped at a farm
                            house, fed our horse, got something to eat; and went on our journey an
                            hour later. About two o'clock the sun disappeared, and clouds began to
                            loiter through the sky; at three we passed through a little town called
                            Mount Pulaski, where we stopped awhile; at four o'clock it began to grow
                            dark and cold.
                        Thus far we had had no difficulty in following the directions given us by
                            Mr. Garrick and corroborated by persons along the way; but now the road
                            which we were travelling terminated in two forks leading in almost
                            opposite directions. It was too late in the day to advance very far upon
                            mere conjecture; and the gathering clouds, and the sharp winds that had
                            risen, made us all the more anxious to get to our destination. There was
                            but one house in sight, a hut about a half-mile up the road on the left,
                            at the base of an immense hill. Thither we drove as it began to snow. It
                            was an old log house that looked as ancient as the soil into which  it was receding. There was one window
                            facing the road, another on the other side had been nailed up. The
                            addition on the back looked newer than the front, for the clay pressed
                            between the cracks in the logs still retained some of its original
                            color. There was no other building as far as the eye could see, except
                            an old barn about fifty yards to the rear. A few white objects, like
                            tomb-stones, peeped from the top of the hill which ascended almost
                            straight. The road evidently had been cut through the beginning of this
                            immense elevation, for it was walled like a cafton and rose but
                            gradually to the top.
                        "I don't believe anybody lives there," said Van Abering, as I passed
                            through the opening in the rail fence to inquire our way.
                        "Yes, surely," said I, "there is smoke coming from the rear chimney," and
                            I knocked at the front door.
                        There was no response for some moments; and all the while it was getting
                            darker and colder. What started as a snow-fall now be-  came a storm of sleet and hail with
                            occasional gusts of rain that dashed into our faces. The horse began to
                            shake with cold, and we, not prepared for such an unexpected change in
                            the weather, were becoming wetter every moment.
                        I knocked again, very impatiently, as the door opened, and a girlish
                            voice said:--
                        "Goodness me! Come in out of the rain."
                        "No," I said, we must go as quickly as possible; but we have lost our
                            way. Is anyone here who knows the roads of this neighborhood."
                        "Oh yes, my grandfather! I will call him," and off she skipped to the
                            rear of the house.
                        "I am afraid we can't go any farther," said Van Abering; "in a half-hour
                            it will be as dark as midnight."
                        Presently a fat, old man came hobbling to the door. He looked as bust of
                            Homer would look, had Homer been better fed. "Well," he said, "what is
                            it you want to know?"
                        
                        I told him where we wanted to go, and he smiled and said:--
                        The nearest way is to drive around the side of the house to the barn, put
                            up your horse, and go in the morning. There is a dreadful storm in the
                            sky; and you are welcome here, if you will take things as we have
                            them."
                        It was nearly impossible to proceed on our way, and there was such
                            kindness in the old man's voice that we took the advice and drove to the
                            barn. When we arrived there, he came from the house with a lantern, and
                            helped us attend to our horse.
                        "Now, come into the house," he said, as he turned and started back by the
                            path he had come. He was a man of almost monstrous proportions, but very
                            gray and rusty in appearance. Like the house in which he lived, he
                            seemed to belong to a by-gone age.
                        We entered the dimly lighted kitchen, where the girl and a very old woman
                            were cooking the evening meal.
                        "Come and sit by the fire," said the girl, 
                            placing two chairs before a large old-fashioned stove that was gleaming
                            with heat.
                        We sat down, as the old man began to put wood on the fire. The walls of
                            the room were as rough on the inside as on the outside; and in several
                            places the rain began to trickle through the clay-plastered
                            crevices.
                        "Did you come from Mount Pulaski" inquired the old woman, opening the
                            oven door.
                        "From near Decatur," answered Van Abering.
                        "There now, put your feet inside the oven," she continued, they'll get
                            warm quicker."
                        Van Abering obeyed, and it was with difficulty that he suppressed a broad
                            smile at the spectacle of himself sitting there roasting his feet and
                            legs. At that instant there was a terrible crash behind my chair, and I
                            thought the hut must be falling to pieces ! I turned, feeling like a
                            soldier who stumbles in battle and imagines himself shot.
                        
                        "Oh!" said the girl, "grandfather, you have scared the gentleman."
                        "Did I? It was only wood," said the old man, apologetically, standing
                            before a huge arm load that he had just dropped to the floor.
                        Presently, supper was prepared and we were invited to sit around the
                            table. The lamp was taken from the shelf in the corner of the logs and
                            placed in the center of the table. The old woman, who was very thin, sat
                            at one end with the girl ; Van Abering and I sat on the sides ; and the
                            old man occupied the other end.
                        "Oh, how it storms ! " said the girl, looking at us sympathetically, as
                            the wind and sleet and rain beat against the roof and sides of the
                            house.
                        "You couldn't have gone much farther," said the old man.
                        "No, I fear not," observed Van Abering, as the old woman almost forced
                            him to have some more rabbit.
                        "You must not be bashful," she said, "just make yourself at home."
                        
                        Van Abering assured her that he was not bashful, and ate his supper with
                            evident relish. He had never eaten at such a table before; and the
                            kindness and interest of these people, who in his eyes were of the
                            lowest stratum, robbed him of his melancholy and pleased him greatly. He
                            was constantly looking at the old man, in whom he seemed to take
                            immediate interest--a rare thing, indeed, for Van Abering. There was a
                            sort of homely generosity in the large mouth and nose, gray hair and
                            soft voice of this rough-looking octogenarian that solicited confidence
                            and made one feel welcome and safe. I dare say that otherwise we should
                            have felt lonely and desolate; for the storm still raged, the wind
                            moaned bitterly above the hissing of the sleet and rain, and here we
                            were in an old log house in the heart of Illinois.
                        After we had eaten, Van Abering and I sat around the stove in the
                            kitchen, while the old woman and the girl put away the supper things.
                            Meanwhile the old man dis-  appeared
                            through a door leading into the front part of the house. Van Abering sat
                            silent, and I was thinking how I might approach with impunity the
                            question of his returning to New York, when the old man opened the door
                            he had passed through and said:--
                        "Come in here."
                        I looked inquiringly at Henry, who was on his feet, going toward the
                            door. We passed through a dark room and entered the old part of the
                            house, where a bright fire popped and cracked in the fireplace, in the
                            west side of the room. There was no light save that furnished by the
                            fire, which was sufficient. This room was plastered and covered with
                            light paper. In the center stood a table heavily laden with an immense
                            pictorial edition of the Bible and a photograph album. On the walls were
                            bric-a-brac, photographs, and brilliant landscapes, that betrayed the
                            artistic tastes of the girl; and in one corner stood a gun that
                            suggested the heroic or hunting spirit of the old man.
                        
                        "Sit down," said he, drawing two home-made rocking-chairs to the fire,
                            and loading himself into a big one, evidently made especially for
                            him.
                        "Where did you say you came from?" he asked, filling a monstrous
                            pipe.
                        "We originally came from New York," answered Van Abering, who was
                            stalking about the room, looking at the things. Presently he took the
                            album from the table, came to the fire, and began to look at the
                            tintypes.
                        "I suppose you don't know any of these persons," said the old man,
                            smiling.
                        "No," said Van Abering; "but who is this?" He had stopped at a pen
                            picture almost worn-out with age and handling.
                        "That--that is supposed to be the picture of an Indian girl. An old
                            comrade drew it years ago.
                        "Is it a drawing from life?"
                        "Indeed it is. She was once as alive as you are. I knew her well She once
                            saved my life."
                        
                        "From the Indians?" I asked.
                        "Yes, from her father's tribe."
                        "Have you been here so long as that?" asked Van Abering, looking
                            reverently into the old man's face.
                        "My son," he replied, placing his hand on Van Abering's shoulder, "I have
                            been here since 1825, only fourteen years after William Henry Harrison
                            fought the Indians in Indiana, when these regions were a wilderness, and
                            Indians and bears roved through the woods. My old comrade, who must be
                            dead by this time, and I fought many a red-skin, had many a narrow
                            escape from death, and one or the other has known nearly every emigrant
                            who traveled over this road from that time until the railroads were
                            built through here. I should have been dead twenty years already," he
                            continued, good-humoredly; "but I don't die, and every year that I live
                            is better than the last." He leaned back in his chair, musing, and
                            drawing from his pipe great volumes of smoke which hastened up the
                            chimney. "My com-  rade was brave man. He
                            loved the Indian girl," he said, quite as much to himself as to us.
                        There was a brief period in which the old chronicler of a by-gone age sat
                            silent and with closed eyes ; doubtless he was thinking of the early
                            days; perhaps the suffering and hardship were forgotten now, and only
                            the romance remained, colored and unified by many repetitions in the
                            long years that had gone into the past. For a long time in the early
                            years, he had been a source of information to emigrants, as to roads,
                            good lands, dangerous passes and the like ; he had been sought after far
                            and wide; and had harbored many a caravan of covered wagons overtaken by
                            storm, night, or hostile Indians. He was the last of his generation--the
                            last to tell the story of an unwritten time.
                        Van Abering was aflame with curiosity, and I was planning how to draw
                            from the old man some of his early experiences. The girl came in and sat
                            beside her grandfather, leaning her head on his broad shoulder; the  flickering fire made grotesque shadows on
                            the walls; and the wind and storm were still going at a merry pace; but
                            what cared we, housed beside a glorious fire, and with the possibility
                            of many a thrilling tale of adventure before bedtime.
                        "Would you tell us something of your early life?'" asked Van Abering
                            eagerly. I had not seen him so bright and interested for a long time ;
                            his brooding--over what was defined in his own mind as the mystery of
                            his nature, and which showed itself in uncontrollable outbursts of
                            violent passion--had wholly disappeared; and he seemed greatly absorbed
                            in the old pioneer, under whose narrow roof destiny had driven us for a
                            night.
                        "I will tell you something about this country as it was when I first came
                            here, and how I came to live here," said the old man, seeing our
                            interest, "and when you get sleepy, we'll all go to bed." The girl
                            nestled more closely to him, and he told a story something as
                            follows:--
                    
                    
                    
                        XI.
                        THE OLD MAN'S STORY.
                        In 1811, when I was three years old, my father left Ohio to join the
                            United States army under William Henry Harrison, who was on his way to
                            fight the Algonquin Indians along the Wabash River. When the Indians
                            were somewhat subdued, he sent for us--my mother, one sister, two
                            brothers, and myself. We met him at the Eagle and Lion Tavern, on the
                            east bank of the river, where, they tell me, a flourishing city now
                                stands.* We
                            stayed there until spring, when, with two other families, we floated in
                            barges down the Wabash River to Vincennes. My father, who was a saddler,
                            opened a shop and worked at his trade. By the time I was seventeen years
                            old, my sister had married, and she, her husband and my two brothers,
                            who were older than myself, had gone to the western limits of the state
                            of Illinois. Meantime also my parents had died, and thus at the age of
                                * Terre
                                Haute.
                             seventeen, in the year 1825, found myself
                            alone in the world, with nothing to hold me fast and many hopes to lure
                            me farther west.
                        One evening as I sat in front of the trading store (Vincennes was the
                            principal trading post for miles around), a line of covered wagons came
                            into the village from the north. A young fellow jumped from one of these
                            and went into the post, while the wagons continned on their way.
                        "Which is the tavern?" he asked me, when he came out.
                        I told him that I worked at the tavern, and that I should walk there with
                            him.
                        In the course of a few hours, while we were together, he took a kind of
                            fancy to me, and I to him. He was a handsome fellow, tall and muscular,
                            had plenty of good clothes and some money. He told me about his boy-hood
                            and his ambition to get into the West; and I told him about my
                            conditions in the world.
                        "Let us strike out for Illinois together," he said.
                        
                        I was overtaken with such joy at this proposition that I agreed at once;
                            and in less than two days, in a covered wagon drawn by a team of good
                            horses, we were on our way westward.
                        Although we had a rough time of it for the first few days,--on account of
                            rain and our inability to help ourselves in this mode of travel,--the
                            time passed quickly and had some rewards for the hardships we had to
                            bear. Kent--that was my companion's name--was an educated fellow, saw
                            the bright side of all things, was a fine shot, and as brave a man as
                            ever lived. There was plenty of game ; and we had a lively time,
                            travelling by day, and camping wherever night happened to overtake us.
                            We saw an Indian occasionally; but for the first week none that molested
                            us. We made our way through woods, over plains, across rivers, the best
                            we could, following no guide but the daily sun and our own wayward
                            desire to go west.
                        One night we stopped before a very high 
                            hill. We thought then that it was a mountain; but having approached it
                            from a valley, it seemed much higher than it really was. There was a
                            gradual ascent for some distance, then, all at once, without any
                            incline, the huge mass of earth seemed to shoot straight up into the
                            sky, like an immense battlement. We might have gone farther, as it was
                            not yet dark; but it would have been as impossible to go over the hill
                            as to go through it; and it was too late to go around, for the base was
                            very large and covered with an almost impenetrable forest. We should
                            have to travel many miles out of our way to get to the other side; and
                            being tired and hungry, and within the sound of falling water, we
                            decided to stop for the night on the spot where we stood.
                        We had never halted any place where things kept to themselves such a
                            mysterious silence. Besides the more or less continuous jargon of the
                            waterfall, which could be heard only a short distance, everything seemed
                            motionless and dead ; the trees were still, the  air asleep, no song of birds, or cry of wild beasts; and
                            after a while the great mountain, as we thought it was then, threw over
                            us a deep and heavy shadow from the rising moon beyond. After we had
                            tied the horses for the night's graze, cooked what game we had killed,
                            and had everything in order, we sat down for a smoke before going to
                            sleep. We didn't say much to each other. It was not the kind of place to
                            make us gay, and the spirit of adventure was at low tide. The dogs lay
                            under the wagon already asleep, after a long day's journey with many a
                            chase.
                        We were to sleep in the wagon that night, but now were lying on the
                            grass. I was so tired that I was off into dreamland before I had carried
                            out my part of our plan. Not so with Kent. Something must have been on
                            his mind, perhaps there was disappointment or homesickness; for instead
                            of going to sleep, he lay looking at the mountain, as the moon rose
                            higher and higher, giving it a golden background and thickening the
                            black-  ness of the shadow in which we lay.
                            Higher and higher rose the moon, until it seemed to rest on the top of
                            the mountain, which was all illuminated now, except a very small black
                            streak of shadow directly before us. In a moment the light was over us
                            and through the valley, and paled the fire which had cooked our supper,
                            and which, while we were still in the dark, might easily have been seen
                            from the top of the mountain.
                        Of this change in the night I saw nothing; but Kent saw it all. I felt
                            something pulling at my coat, and in an instant I was awake.
                        "Look ! look!" cried my comrade in a strange voice, pointing to the top
                            of the mountain.
                        Against the golden moon on the very top, with outstretched arms on either
                            side in the manner of a cross, there stood something that looked like
                            the figure of a woman.
                        "The Holy Cross!" cried my companion.
                        There it stood. What was it? an apparition ? What did it mean? How could
                            it be possible in this far away world? The
                            Holy Cross stood still as stone, while the moon listlessly raised itself
                            above the mountain. Was it somebody crucified by the Indians ? Or might
                            it not be the mingled effect of the trees and shrubbery? No, there were
                            no trees and shrubbery on the east crest of the mountain. Were we both
                            then under the influence of some hallucination?
                        "It is gone," exclaimed Kent.
                        "I am going to see what that is," said I, taking my gun, and starting to
                            run around the right side. It was a great distance; but the moon shone
                            bright, and I was able to go in a lively run. This is what happened to
                            my companion while I was gone:--
                        The night kept its silence ; the only sign of life being the last gleams
                            of our fire, beside which Kent was now lying, and an occasional sigh
                            from the tired dogs under the wagon. Things grew even more quiet and
                            lifeless; the dogs sighed no more, the fire went out, the wind did not
                            stir, the  waterfall stopped its talking,
                            and the moon went behind a large cloud.
                        The excitement of the vision having subsided in Kent's mind, he was about
                            to fall asleep, when he thought he heard a faint sound, and one of the
                            dogs came from under the wagon and held his head in the attitude of
                            listening. There was absolute silence again for a moment, when a
                            prolonged faint noise seemed to issue from the left of the mountain.
                            This was repeated several times between intervals of death-like
                            stillness. The sound did not fill the valley, but seemed to cut through
                            the lower air, close to the ground, and go in different directions.
                            Sometimes he could scarcely hear it, then again it came directly toward
                            him -- once in no uncertain tones calling, Ma-ya-ka-no, Ma- ya-ka-no."
                            It was not a harsh sound, and without growing louder seemed to have the
                            mystery of becoming clearer and clearer. Presently it stopped, and Kent,
                            going in the direction of the sound, endeavored to make his way to a
                            small glade which he remem-  bered to have
                            seen in the moonlight, where he might lie in ambush and find the meaning
                            of this solitary voice in the forest.
                        He was within five yards of the open place when the moon broke like a
                            fash from the clouds, and the valley was flooded with light. He entered
                            the glade to see if it were clear, when a voice called, "Mayakano,
                            Mayakano," and an Indian girl ran towards him with out-stretched arms,
                            still calling "Mayakano, Mayakano." She stopped abruptly when within a
                            few feet of him, and stepped back-ward.
                        "Wait," said Kent, in what little Indian he knew.
                        "No, you kill us, you kill us!"
                        "Where are you going?"
                        "On the mountain where my father's people live. I believed it was
                            Mayakano that walked in the valley," she continued, and seeing that her
                            conferee meant no harm, she stopped her retreat.
                        "My only brother, he was killed in battle here in the valley, my father
                            is old, and  there is no one to be chief
                            when he is dead; but the Great Spirit says my brother will come back and
                            burn a fire in the valley. I watch nightly on top of the mountain, and
                            invoke the Great Spirit, so (and she stood in the manner of a cross), as
                            the moon rises over my father's hunting grounds: to-night I saw the
                            fire; I came; but it is not Mayakano, it is not Mayakano, it is somebody
                            else," and she fell to weeping. She was beautifully dressed after the
                            fashion of her race, but she was not so dark or so grim-visaged, and had
                            a voice as clear as crystal.
                        Kent took her by the hand and said, "Perhaps your brother will come
                            to-morrow." Just then the mountain became alive with noise--cries,
                            shouts, and the clatter of horses' hoofs mingled, as if in terrible
                            battle !
                        "Come, come," said The Holy Cross, holding his hand, "or you will be
                            killed. They are coming down the mountain; come--faster, faster!"
                            Although smaller than he, she was fleet as a deer, and nearly dragged
                                 him over the rough ground and through
                            the trees around the right of the mountain. They turned at a crook in
                            the base, stopped suddenly before a little knoll surrounded by a cluster
                            of dwarfed trees, where The Holy Cross sank into the ground, saying,
                            "Follow, follow!" When they reached the bottom of the crevice in the
                            rock, she, still holding his hand, said, "Listen!"
                        The turmoil now raged through the valley. In as few words as possible,
                            Kent told her about his companion having gone to the top of the
                            mountain. Just as she was about to climb out of the cave, saying, "I
                            will go to save him, and return to you when it is coming day," he kissed
                            her on the forehead. She turned, took his hand again, and looked at him,
                            as if to ask, "What does that mean?" then she said, "You do not hate
                            me?"
                        "No, I love you; save my companion's life," answered Kent, as The Holy
                            Cross climbed out into the forest.
                        While these things were happening to my 
                            companion (continued the old man) I had some very different experiences.
                            At a distance of some three hundred yards in a semi-circle to the right
                            of the knoll which covered the narrow mouth of the cave, a well worn
                            path, coiling around trees and rocks, began gradually to ascend to the
                            top of the mountain. For the last twenty yards of the ascent, the path
                            continued straight, and became much steeper, running over the top and
                            descending about the same distance on the other side to where the
                            table-lands began, and the father of The Holy Cross lived with his
                            people. Thus this path resembled a huge snake lying over the mountain,
                            and was known in the language of the Indians as "Sleeping Serpent." It
                            had been there as long as anyone knew, and there was nothing in the
                            traditions of the old chieftain's people that told of its origin. Silent
                            it had lain there for many years, through winter and summer, famine and
                            plenty, victory and defeat. The old chief had played along it when a
                            boy, had killed his first game down  Iits
                            sides, and fought his first battles amid its crooks and curls, until now
                            he was an old man, but "Sleeping Serpent" lay dreaming as at first.
                        Ignorant of where this path led, I hurried along it as quickly as
                            possible. I reached the top, and looked over acres of tents filed in
                            long rows toward the west. Before I had time to retreat, hideous noises
                            filled my ears ; and in an instant I was surrounded, rendered senseless,
                            and with me that was all for the present.
                        When I regained consciousness, it was broad daylight, and I was lying in
                            the sun between Kent and The Holy Cross, who were rubbing me vigorously.
                            All around us, looking over each other's shoulders, was a throng of the
                            dirtiest, most savage-looking red-skins I had ever seen. The Holy Cross
                            had interceded for us, and we were not to be killed.
                        Come here to the window (said the old man, leading the way for Van
                            Abering and me). Do you see that hill? (he continued, pointing out into
                            the stormy night toward,  the eminence we
                            had seen on our approach to the log house). That is where we saw The
                            Holy Cross in the moonlight; and on top of the hill lived her father's
                            people.
                        We had not been with the Indians long before they grew fond of us,
                            regarding us as having been sent to them from the Great Spirit.
                        Meanwhile the old chief died, and The Holy Cross chose as her husband my
                            comrade Kent, who became Wamaset, the chief of the tribe.
                        During the next fifteen years the Indians were driven further west; The
                            Holy Cross died; and Kent, who was now owner of these vast tracts of
                            land, accompanied by the son The Holy Cross had borne him, returned to
                            his native home--where I cannot tell you, I do not know.
                        (The old man stretched himself, yawned, and said:) Well, it's about
                            bedtime now. To-morrow I'll take you on top of the hill.  Good night. (And we all went off to
                            bed.)
                    
                    
                        XII.
                        After a good night's rest, we arose and found that the storm had entirely
                            subsided. The air was cold but clear; and after a few hours of sun, we
                            should be on our way again toward the Van Abering farms. We gathered
                            round the breakfast table with the little old woman, the girl, and the
                            old man, whose gait was about as rapid as a tortoise, but whose mind, as
                            seen from the story of the night before, was still as bright as a
                            cricket.
                        "After breakfast, I'll take you to the top of the hill," he said, "and
                            show you where the Indians lived."
                        The breakfast was soon finished, and the old man, the girl, Van Abering
                            and myself left the house for the top of the hill. Behold ! there it
                            stood before us, just as it had been described, except that many years
                            of travel and work had cut a road through 
                            the right base. This road we took; and after a long time--the old man
                            setting the pace--we reached the top. There the table- land stretched
                            out as far as one could see. In summer these were doubtless magnificent
                            fields of grain, where once roamed another people and thrived another
                            civilization, known now only in books and in the memories of a few
                            remaining pioneers like the one by our side.
                        "There is where we buried The Holy Cross--over there," said the old man,
                            pointing toward the edge of the precipice that was parallel with the log
                            house below.
                        Thither we went.
                        "The Holy Cross has been lying there a good many years now. It was her
                            wish to be buried here on the hill where she had always lived. The old
                            chief, her father, was buried in a tree in that direction," and the old
                            man pointed back toward the left, 'at the head of Sleeping Serpent.' The
                            Holy Cross was a beautiful girl, except that her forehead was a little
                            scarred with the marks  of the tribe,"
                            continued the old pioneer, waddling ahead of us toward a few white
                            stones partially hidden among the trees. "That one is The Holy
                            Cross's--that tall stone with the three diamonds on it ; those were the
                            marks of the tribe."
                        Van Abering grew white in the face.
                        The old man continued : "The name Kent is not on the tombstone, but some
                            other names--of the firm that made it, perhaps.
                        We stopped before the tall slab, which read:--
                        THE HOLY CROSS
                        WIFE OF
                        WAMASET,
                        GUIDO ANDREAS VAN ABERING.
                        "That stone was sent here more than thirty years ago, and I put it up
                            myself--"
                        "Oh! oh!" cried the girl, "grandfather, the gentleman, the
                            gentleman!"
                        Behind us Van Abering had sunk to the ground!
                        Like a flash I thought of the diamonds on the tombstone in Greenwood
                            Cemetery.
                        
                        We carried him to the house; the old man saying all the while, "What
                            could be the trouble--what could be the trouble? No doubt it was
                            climbing up the hill."
                        Van Abering soon recovered; but he was hardly strong enough to continue
                            the journey until the next day. He was greatly changed: he spoke almost
                            nothing--only what was absolutely necessary; but the deep restlessness
                            of his nature had subsided; he seemed contented, and I hoped that he
                            would be ready before long to return to his home. However else he had
                            changed, he now seemed to be satisfied and decided upon his future
                            course.
                        The next day we made our departure.
                        "You must be careful about climbing hills," said the old man, little
                            knowing what he had revealed.
                        Van Abering made no reply, only put his hand in the old man's, and came
                            to the carriage.
                        Our journey was a silent one: Van Abering was neither sad nor gay, had no
                            praises  or complaints ; he seemed simply
                            satisfied. In what I said, he took the interest that respect demanded,
                            but no more. When nearing the end of our journey, he asked me to attend
                            to the preliminary arrangements with the tenant, and to say that he was
                            not feeling well and wished to go to his room at once. We had no
                            difficulty in finding the vast tract of land which remained of the
                            estate, and the home of the chief tenant, where we arrived when it was
                            growing dark. We were cordially received, and led into the house before
                            a warm open fire, while our rooms were being prepared. Each of us was
                            given a letter. The one to Van Abering was from his mother, and read in
                            part as follows :-- 
                                
                                    
                                        "MY DEAR, DEAR SON:
                                        Come home, come home at once. ... Rosamond's marriage
                                            will not occur. We know all. ... Come home before we are
                                            crushed by despair.... On your arrival, we shall all go
                                            abroad to live. Telegraph and come at once.
                                        YOUR AFFECTIONATE MOTHER."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                        He held the letter between his fingers at the side of his chair where his
                            arm hung listlessly. He was looking into the fire, as I read aloud the
                            letter I had received:-- 
                                
                                    
                                        "This note is to tell you that Avonill died this morning.
                                            He was not in his right mind toward the end, and talked
                                            at random of his friends--principally Henry Van Abering,
                                            whom he wanted to be told that everything was all
                                            right--that he died bearing him no ill will, and such
                                            things. Poor Francis ! He will be buried in Nashville,
                                            Tennessee. It is sad and lonely in the old house
                                            to-night.
                                        Faithfully,
                                        WILLIAM GARRICK.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        Van Abering's letter dropped from his hand, but he did not break the
                            silence; rising, he walked falteringly to his room. It was the last time
                            I ever saw him. His supper was brought to him ; and in the morning his
                            room was empty. The country was searched in vain; Henry Van Abering was
                            never seen again.
                        
                        In due time I found myself again in the old quarters at Cambridge ; but
                            how changed ! There were no more songs, music and laughter; the old
                            house looked glum, and seemed ever to remind me of the happy times I had
                            spent there. The remaining days ofmy college life flickered quickly and
                            uneventfully by; and now, as I recall these images, a goodly number of
                            years have sauntered into the past. The last I heard of Mrs. and Miss
                            Van Abering was that they were living in England. The good-hearted
                            Garrick became a doctor, as he wished ; and is now practicing in Newark,
                            New Jersey. The madame and the old naval officer (who, had he been more
                            worthy the confidence of youth, might have prevented these unfortunate
                            events--and thus this story) were divorced in their old age. O for shame
                            !
                        In the summer of 1897, I visited the Exposition at Nashville. Before
                            leaving the city, I wandered one sunny afternoon to the cemetery, and
                            put some flowers on a little mound that covered the body of  John Francis Avonill. Poor Avonill! He
                            had his faults, to be sure; but who will throw the first stone! How
                            quiet now--no smile--no story--no song ! He had a light and cheerful
                            soul, and took life gayly enough. Yet who will blame him for having
                            smiled where others wept, in a world where there is so much sorrow?
                    
                
                
                
                    THE MYSTERY OF LOVE
                    
                        "Love has no law."
                        Portugese Proverb.
                    
                    
                    THE MYSTERY OF LOVE
                    ONE Saturday night some winters ago, several fellows were sitting around in
                        my room in Harvard College telling stories. They were all Harvard men, and
                        well acquainted, and seemed to feel no restraint therefore in doing what
                        gave them the most enjoyment--or release from pain, as one of the pessimists
                        in the company was accustomed to put it ; some were smoking, their feet
                        cocked up on a level with their heads ; one lay on the divan, and another
                        had got down on the floor ; it was a thoroughly Bohemian evening.
                    They had been telling stories--incidents which they had read, or seen in
                        their own  lives. On the whole it was a very
                        enjoyable evening. I ought not to say this myself perhaps, but since the
                        others are not here, I venture the egotism. Nearly everyone had contributed
                        something -- a tale of love or adventure (principally the former), a volume
                        of smoke, or a convivial disposition, which is perhaps the most
                        indispensable of the lot. It was about eleven o'clock, and a kind of a lull
                        had fallen over the fellows, they "had run out," as the expression goes.
                    Of the five persons present besides myself, there was one who could not
                        properly be called a "fellow"; for that is an appellation given to college
                        students. This man had been graduated for some years already; but despite
                        this fact and others--that he was no longer very young, and was an
                        instructor in the college--he seemed unwilling to break off his intimate
                        association with the students, some of whom were even in his classes. His
                        name was Morgan. The name somewhat fitted him. Though he was not heavy in
                        body or extremely grave in mind, there  was
                        yet a disposition of reserve or honesty or something about him which
                        prevented gusto and won belief in what he said. Morgan was sitting on the
                        settee in one corner, smoking too. He had been feeling absently about in his
                        vest pockets, perhaps to rest his fingers or for something to do, for men
                        are always playing with their pockets, when presently he drew out a dingy
                        little piece of paper folded up. He had not said much all evening. But that
                        was nothing strange, for he never had very much to say. He had looked a bit
                        surprised when he drew the dingy little note from his pocket, and now sat
                        musingly puffing and looking at it.
                    "Morgan," said one of the fellows sitting on the other side of the room,
                        "it's your turn now." The one who said this was from the West, and generally
                        spoke in the manner nearest the end of his tongue. "You haven't said word
                        all evening. You've got to do your share too."
                    
                    "Yes, let us hear from the faculty," the other fellows shouted.
                    Morgan sat silent for a moment, still look ing at the little piece of
                        paper.
                    "Well, I will tell you a little story," he began, his face lighting up as if
                        surprised at himself that such a thing as a story from him should be
                        reality. "It doesn't amount to much, it's just a little thing.
                    "Some years ago, a family by the name of Hayes lived in Burlington, Iowa.
                        There were a father, mother and two daughters. Florence, the older of the
                        two, was a fine-looking girl. She was more than fine looking; there was
                        something of the statuesque --of the majestic in her; she was beautiful. She
                        was a very active sort of a girl too, always doing something, and doing it
                        in a manner which showed both grace and good sense throughout.
                    "When Florence was about eighteen years old she began to receive a fellow by
                        the name of La Rose, a brother of one of her bosom friends. Young La Rose
                        was of  French extraction; his ancestors for a
                        few generations had lived in this country, in Burlington, and had been very
                        successful business men ; they had saved their money through these
                        generations, so that about this time the father of young La Rose was
                        accounted a very, very rich man--at least for Burlington. Young La Rose was
                        somewhat older than Florence--about four years, I should say.
                    "The father of the girl seemed to think that she was somewhat too young to
                        see company very regularly, and fearing that she might take the young man's
                        calls too seriously, decided to send her away, believing that she would soon
                        forget him. And then, too, the father of the girl was doubtful as to the
                        moral stability of the young suitor. The girl was sent to Wellesley. She
                        stayed three years, and apparently did forget young La Rose; she had spent
                        the vacations at home, and so far as anyone knew she didn't think anything
                        about him, or he about her."
                    
                    At this stage of the story, Morgan relighted his pipe, twisted about into a
                        comfortable position, and went on:--
                    "One summer about a year after the girl had quitted college, she went to
                        Indiana to visit a girlfriend of her Wellesleydays. She had had a pleasant
                        time it seemed, and was on her way back to Burlington, to be an 'at home'
                        girl, as she had been for the past year. The train was drawing in a
                        north-western direction through the state of Illinois. It had been a
                        somewhat long and tiresome journey; there were frequent stops, and, almost
                        as bad, no parlor car, nothing but the dirty, hot day coaches. A good many
                        people were on the train too, and that seemed to make it doubly hot and
                        disagreeable. She thought if she could have a coach alone, it would not be
                        so bad ; but there were perhaps a hundred other people thinking the very
                        same thing. She did, however, have a whole seat to herself.
                    "After the usual shuffle of getting out and in at one of the stops, there
                        were several  persons without seats when the
                        train started again. One of these, a young man, seeing half of Florence's
                        seat unoccupied (and perhaps her pretty face, too), asked if he might occupy
                        the seat with her--if she had any objections.
                    "I prefer to sit alone," said Florence, not even looking up.
                    "The young fellow walked away.
                    "It was not very long before he came back and asked again if he might have
                        half the seat--if she had any objections.
                    "'Yes, I have objections,' she said in a tone which was anything but
                        inviting.
                    "It is almost extraordinary why he should have insisted upon sitting by her,
                        for the fellow was of good breeding, I think. But it seemed that he must sit
                        by her, it seemed that something was driving him; it is true that he was
                        tired, but then something drew him toward her, too. He felt that he must sit
                        by her, so in a little while he asked again.
                    "'Well,' said the girl, perhaps forgetting  her
                        Wellesley training, 'if you must sit here, all right,' and she reluctantly
                        moved her valise and herself next to the window.
                    "'Thank you,' said the young man, as he dropped into the seat.
                    "They had not gone very far, when the young man asked where she was going. He
                        felt that he must not let her slip entirely away, he felt that he must ask
                        her.
                    "'Down the road a piece,' she answered.
                    "'What place?'
                    "'Oh, just down the road a piece.' She did not want to tell, she did not want
                        to talk, she was tired, and then she didn't know the young man anyway.
                    "'I'm going to get off at Burlington. Do you know anybody there?' he
                        asked.
                    "'Yes.'
                    "'Very many?'
                    "'Yes, quite a number,' she said, a little less snappish.
                    "'Do you know anybody there by the name of Hayes?'
                    
                    "Florence repeated the name slowly, 'Hay--es? Yes, I know a family by that
                        name.'
                    "'Have they any daughters ' asked the young man.
                    "'Let me see,' said Florence, turning her face toward the window, to hide an
                        expression which might betray her bewildered curiosity, 'I believe they
                        have;' and then she stole a look at the strange young man.
                    "'Is one of them named Florence?'
                    "'Yes,' said Florence, this time stealing a good long look. She believed that
                        she did not altogether dislike the young man.
                    "The stranger didn't say anything for a few moments, then drawing a letter
                        from his pocket, said, 'This is for her--'
                    "'Oh it's mine! it's mine!' shouted Florence, grabbing the letter from his
                        hand.
                    "The young man was amazed, so much so that he simply sat still and said
                        nothing. By the time he had pulled his wits together and thought some awful
                        things about the girl, she had read the letter
                        and was explaining that her name was Florence Hayes and that the letter was
                        for her. It was a letter of introduction from a very good friend.
                    "They reached Burlington. The young man stayed in the city a few days,
                        spending not a little of his time at Florence's home. Never mind what the
                        young man's business was, and I believe I have forgotten anyway, but it
                        happened that after that time he visited Burlington very frequently. He was
                        of good family, and well known by friends of the girl. He began to think a
                        great deal of her, and she of him.
                    "About a year rolled by while things were formulating themselves in the
                        affections of these two young people, and it was finally announced that they
                        were to be married. The day was set, the invitations were sent out. It was
                        to be a fashionable wedding, with such numbers as the best form of the time
                        and place would permit. The young man lived about a hundred miles  away. He was to arrive only a few hours
                        before the ceremonies, which were to be performed at high noon.
                    "Florence and the young man had often talked about their incident in the
                        railroad train, and how it seemed that they really belonged to each other
                        even if he had had no letter of introduction. The young man, in his
                        optimistic view of life, felt that she was intended for him; that his
                        strange unrestful feelings when he first saw her showed that, in the
                        righteous organization of the world, she was to be his. They both felt that
                        something had guided them together.
                    "There was a great deal of work preparing for the wedding, everybody was
                        tired out, Florence more than all the rest--and why not? Think of the worry
                        to the bride that all should go well; of the serious meditation which such
                        an important step must call forth when it comes to be realized that you are
                        really going to be married, that you are not day-dreaming any more, that the
                             very dress which is to be worn once and
                        never again hangs ready, that you have of a sudden been thrown into almost
                        painful prominence, that a new vista of life opens before you, into which
                        your vision goes but a pace and is unsteady--that you are to become a wife.
                        Florence was tired.
                    "Jeanne La Rose, the sister of the young man who had occasionally called on
                        Florence before she went to college, had been a constant, bosom friend of
                        hers from her childhood. She was at Florence's home this day, the day before
                        the marriage. It was about one o'clock in the afternoon when Jeanne La Rose
                        started home:
                    "'I believe I'll go with you,' said Florence, 'there's so much commotion
                        about the house that I can't rest. I must get away until to-morrow, I am
                        tired.'
                    Jeanne was very glad, and expressed her belief that the change for the night
                        would give the necessary rest. With but little delay, Florence and Jeanne
                        started in a carriage to the latter's home, which was a fine  country house just a little out of town,
                        while the maids and servants bustled about noisily preparing the wedding
                        home.
                    "It was about three o'clock in the afternoon when Florence was lying in the
                        hammock in a dark, shady place on the lawn. Jeanne had been reading to her,
                        but Florence's eyes closed and opened alternately as if she were keeping
                        awake with some effort. Once when she closed her eyes, Jeanne stopped
                        reading and allowed her to fall asleep. Jeanne went into the house. Florence
                        slept.
                    "She had been sleeping about twenty minutes, when young La Rose came down the
                        path and took the chair vacated by his sister. He did not awaken Florence,
                        he just sat there and looked at her. He had seen her many times in the last
                        two years, for she had often been with his sister here at their home; he had
                        been indifferent to her and she to him, no feeling whatever had existed
                        between them. But now he sat looking at her. Presently, bending his head  close to hers, he said, in a low voice,
                        'Florence.' She did not open her eyes. 'Florence,' he repeated softly. This
                        time she opened her eyes. He did not move back, she did not move either. He
                        said a few words to her, and they both got up and walked back towards the
                        garden. Florence had said nothing all this time, she said nothing, now she
                        did not even look surprised at this conduct of La Rose though he had not
                        approached anything like it before he had always been proper in everything.
                        What was it?
                    "They disappeared in the garden.
                    "That night the county clerk and a minister were aroused, and at midnight
                        they were married--La Rose and Florence."
                    Here Morgan stopped. His pipe was out, all the pipes were out, the fellows
                        had been listening.
                    "Well, that's a strange story. Didn't she ever say anything to the other
                        fellow about it?" asked one.
                    
                    "Yes, she sent him a note that night," said Morgan, playfully twirling his
                        pipe.
                    "Well, what became of the other fellow?" asked another.
                    "Oh, the other fellow!" continued Morgan, as if a little surprised that
                        anyone should ask of him, "why he got sick and nearly died--he did die--in a way. While he was ill, the mother and sister of the
                        girl nursed him very tenderly. But it was too much for him ; you see he was
                        in love with her. The mother and sister never had any more to do with the
                        girl after that."
                    Morgan began to unfold the dingy little piece of paper he had held in his
                        hand all the time, and said, "This is the note she sent to the fellow that
                        night."
                
                
                
                    WHY SOME SCHOOLMISTRESSES DON'T MARRY
                    
                        "My age and tastes are no more the same."
                        Horace.
                    
                    
                    WHY SOME SCHOOLMISTRESSES DON'T MARRY*
                    SOME years ago, while I was yet a preparatory student, I met a young man by
                        the name of Roberts, who was preparing at Exeter for Harvard. It chanced
                        that Roberts and I spent a portion of one summer together at Marblehead, a
                        fine coast above Boston Harbor, at the head of Massachusetts Bay. Roberts
                        had graduated that year from Exeter, and was now looking forward to four
                        years of hard study mixed with some foot-ball practice *I am not responsible for
                            the facts in this story. I am only responsible for the manner in which
                            they are told, and for the title. The reader may judge for himself
                            whether or not the title is well takren.--M. E.
                         and five o'clock tea in Cambridge. He was a
                        fine fellow, a sort of sympathetic young man. He easily found interest in my
                        troubles in life and was willing to tell me his.
                    I had not been with Roberts very long beforeI knew that there was some
                        paramount question in his life which needed settlement before he could be at
                        peace with himself and the world. He was a good-looking fellow, and had
                        means and ambition to make something of life; but withal there was something
                        wanting.
                    One fine evening, after we had been out for a delightful roll in the surf,
                        and after we had had dinner and were settled comfortably on the great
                        veranda of his mother's summer-house, Roberts had it on his mind again; he
                        had to tell. He was in love. Now that was nothing srange, I might have
                        thought as much, for the actions of a man in love are always
                        unnatural--anomalous. Love is positively the one thing which does not seem
                        to follow law at all. some lovers act thus and others so, apparently when
                        all other conditions are  equal. For the same
                        reason, say disappointment, one fellow will strive to get even by making a
                        great mark in the world, while another will try to find out how much
                        champagne he can drink, and how utterly unworthy of the woman he can make
                        himself.
                    Roberts was in love, I said. But the trouble with him was not disappointment.
                        He loved the girl and she loved him. I was about to ask where the trouble
                        lay, but it was not necessary. A man in this condition will talk if you give
                        him time.
                    Roberts had lighted a fresh cigar. "You see," he said, "what's fellow to do?"
                        Then he puffed a bit. "I've got four years in college yet, and she's as old
                        as I am now," he continued, as if she might be younger if he hadn't the
                        college years before him. "It's an awful long time to wait."
                    I believe I made some encouraging remark to the effect that time flies. I was
                        about to use the Latin expression, but I thought Roberts might not take it
                        seriously.
                    "I know," he said, after a pause; "but  it's a
                        long time, and the worst of it is the girl's poor."
                    "Then you are surely marrying her for love, not money."
                    "Yes, yes, that's all right; but how's she going to get a living until we get
                        married ? She has a good education, she only lacked one year of graduating
                        at Smith. I would like to help her, so she wouldn't need to do anything, but
                        she won't let me till we're married, she says. What's fellow to do?"
                    "Could she teach school?" I asked.
                    "She wants to," said Roberts, "but I don't like the idea. I suppose we'll
                        have to come to it sooner or later though. I have a friend who could get her
                        a good position, I think ; if I could but bring myself to think that it
                        wouldn't be too hard on her. You see, she's such a child."
                    We sat on the veranda until about eleven o'clock, when I left for the
                        hotel.
                    It wasn't very many days until the girl with whom Roberts was in love came to
                        Marblehead. She was a little body with  whom
                        one might easily have fallen into Roberts's condition. She was not as tall
                        as the figures of the French fashion plates, yet she was tall enough, had
                        light hair, and a fine gentle face. She was not quick in her movements; one
                        could easily tell that from her eyes ; they were large, and moved leisurely,
                        but very interestingly.
                    Roberts had fine time while she stayed. She must have thought a good deal of
                        him, for he was master of every situation. She would not have the
                        responsibility of planning anything ; anything he wished to do pleased her.
                        He often wanted to be especially pleasant to her, but he could only be that
                        by being most pleasant to himself.
                    I felt a little guilty once about the school-teaching suggestion. One day
                        while Roberts was busy at something for a short time, I took a stroll with
                        her on the beach. She said she didn't like to go very near the water,
                        because the ocean seemed such a terrible thing that it frightened her.
                    "Jack wrote to me about you," she said, 
                        swinging her arms together, and looking up at me apologetically.
                    I asked what he had said, if she cared to tell.
                    "Oh! he just said he told you about us--about him and me." After a short
                        pause, she continued appealingly, still swinging her arms in a girlish way,
                        "Don't you think I could teach school?"
                    I said that I thought she could, but I confess I didn't think so at all. She
                        was such a mild, wistful, little creature, wanting in everything that might
                        approach sternness, rigidity, or discipline. I said, "little." She was not
                        little, but her naive manners, conversation, and mode of thought, made her
                        seem little to me--in fact to every--one.
                    After the girl left and the earth again became an ordinary thing to Roberts,
                        I met him one day, and we had another chat.
                    "I thought at first," he said, "that it was lack of individuality in her, but
                        it can't be that," he continued, looking at me as if I  should immediately consent that it was not that.
                    He did not give any reason why it could not be lack of individuality; but I
                        knew a reason; simply because she was different with Roberts than with other
                        men. She was always, and with all persons, a child--nothing more. But she
                        could not help that, and did not seem to have any consciousness that she
                        ought to try to hide it. But one must not forget that children, too, have
                        indiiduality -- sometimes more than grown-up people. Yet with Roberts she
                        had not a spark of it; she was in love with him.
                    Roberts wasn't a very good companion after the girl left. She unfitted him
                        for other people's society, I didn't interest him much any more; but then,
                        neither did anybody else. In one respect, however, he was somewhat better,
                        for he saw his way clear now. The girl had been rejoiced at the idea of
                        teaching school, and "waiting for him," as she said, and he had brought
                        himself around to submit to the inevitable.
                    
                    In a week I left for college again; but as I was not at that time going to
                        Harvard, Roberts and I parted, promising to meet the next year at
                        Marblehead.
                    The year passed, as years always do. I had heard from Roberts several times,
                        and it was somewhat through the influence of his letters during this year
                        that I afterwards went to Harvard myself.
                    I was somewhat late in getting to Marblehead the next year. I went late on
                        purpose, with the intention of going directly to college when the season
                        closed. I received a telegram from Roberts that he would meet me at the
                        Adams House in Boston, that he would wait till I came. I reached Boston late
                        at night, and went directly to the Adams House. Roberts had registered that
                        day. But as it was very late, I retired for the night without seeing
                        him.
                    We met in the morning. We were very, very glad to see each other. But to my
                        sorrow, the poor fellow had something troublin him again.
                    
                    "You are the only person," he said, sadly, at breakfast that morning, "whom I
                        have told about Miss ------,and my caring something for her."
                    "Well," I said, "I haven't said anything to anybody about it; besides I
                        didn't know that it was a secret. Believe me I haven't said a word--"
                    "No, no," he interrupted, "you misunderstand, I know you haven't said
                        anything to anybody, but it wouldn't matter if you had; that isn't it." He
                        was silent awhile, playing with the food rather than eating it.
                    "Why don't you eat something?" I suggested. But he didn't seem to hear
                        me.
                    "Read that," he said, handing me a letter.
                    "Well, but this is from a girl," I said, looking at the envelope.
                    "I know it is," answered Roberts. "Can't you read girl's writing?"
                    The letter was from the girl who had not had any individuality the year
                        before, and who had been delighted at the idea of teach-  ing school, and waiting for my friend. She
                        had taught school, and was still waiting. I read the letter aloud, thinking
                        there might be something my friend wished to explain, for I was not
                        conversant with the latest developments in their affections. I began:--
                    "'Dear Mr. Roberts--'"
                    "The devil!" interrupted my companion, she used to call me, Jack--yes, Jack!
                        Now think of that, 'Dear--Mr.--Roberts,' it's an outrage!"
                    I paused a moment, then began again, repeating the "Dear Mr. Roberts" in
                        order to get a good start and read right through. My friend looked up in a
                        questioning expression which very much resembled the weather when it looks
                        like it might rain, snow, be cloudy, or bright--all within the next fifteen
                        minutes.
                    "'have received your last very estimable letter,'" I continued to read.
                    "'Your--last--very--estimable--letter,' think of that!"
                    I continued : "'It is with the most pro-  found
                        gratitude that I have the pleasure of seeing you soon again.'"
                    "'Most profound gratitude,'" growled Roberts. ",She used to say, 'Dear, dear
                        Jack, we'll soon be together again--won't we?' Now, 'most profound
                        gratitude.'"
                    I went on: "'Instead of yachting and tennis this year, I hope to devote some
                        of my stay at the shore on my Greek and Latin. I think it is in the highest
                        degree essential.'"
                    "'In the highest degree essential!'" raged Roberts. "I don't mind the Greek
                        and Latin, if it must be; but think of, 'in the highest degree essential.'
                        Heaven save us!"
                    I continued to read : "'But surely you are familiar with the highly
                        proverbial adage.'"
                    "That will do," interrupted Roberts, "that last is more than I can stand or
                        understand. 'Proverbial adage;' Great Scott! Please read the rest to
                        yourself."
                    I read it through, and handed it back to him.
                    "Think of such an ending, too, as, 'your 
                        friend,' snarled Roberts, as he jerked open the letter, "when she used to
                        say, 'good-by, dear Jack,' or something else like that." He threw himself
                        back in his chair, so forgetful, in his present feeling, of where he was
                        that he began to load his pipe.
                    "How long has she been teaching now?" I asked.
                    "One year; just think--such form, such dignity, such stiffness, such
                        propriety--all in one year, too ! She's ruined for life ! Do you think I
                        want to spend my days with such an iceberg?"
                    "How long will she have to continue to teach yet before--"
                    "'Continue to teach,' repeated Roberts, interrupting me, "forever so far as I
                        am concerned."
                    We left that breakfast table years ago. The girl is teaching yet.
                    Heartless fate! it was the school's, not the girl's fault.
                
                
                
                    MARY
                    
                        
                            "...she loved, still for the sake of living,
                            for the heart is hungry too,"
                        
                        Les Misérables.
                    
                    
                    MARY
                    IT was in the autumn that the doors of a small Western college were opened
                        again. It was one of those little college towns far distant enough from any
                        great centre of activity to be a world unto itself. The news of the outer
                        world, with the latest prima donnas, politicians, and the
                        newest novels, seldom penetrated its miles of surrounding forests. The only
                        intrusions made by a knowledge of distant places, of living celebrities and
                        their deeds, came through a few of the professors who had travelled some and
                        studied at universities, and through a few weekly and monthly publications
                        that  were placed in the college library. What
                        interested the lads and lasses, besides an occasional ramble through the
                        woods or a drive in the country, did not extend beyond the quiet limits of
                        the sequestered town, where the God-fearing professors expounded ancient and
                        classic lore (and scarcely anything else). The college weekly was their New York Sun; the president of the college, the chief
                        executive of their government ; the town lawyers, their Websters and
                        Calhouns; and each other, their friends (and sometimes sweethearts). There
                        were no great buildings to hide the beauties of sunset or hinder the cool
                        breezes of summer. The town was on an eminence, commanding a view of the
                        surrounding forests, which at the horizon seemed a massive wall against the
                        rough and rugged world. It is perhaps these protections "from the madding
                        crowd's ignoble strife" that make the graduates of a small secluded college
                        cherish the sweetest memories of these idealistic years in the romantic time
                        of life.
                    
                    At the beginning of this college year, a few of the old graduates had come
                        back. Many new faces appeared about the rooms and buildings. All the classes
                        would be as large as the year before (which would not be very large).
                        Everybody was shaking hands with everybody else; and many plans for another
                        happy year of college life were being made, amid the best and truest good
                        will to be found anywhere on earth.
                    A young fellow by the name of Percy Clayton, about whom this memory twines,
                        was now a junior. He was a good-hearted fellow, and everybody liked his open
                        and courteous manner. As a student he was fair, steady, and reliable, though
                        not brilliant. Like many of his fellows, his home was in the country, where
                        he had spent the vacation just ended. He was glad to get back to college,
                        for he had already learned of better and greater possibilities than were
                        open to him on the farm ; and behind his smile and continued good humor
                        there was a solemn desire some day to win a place in the  world of affairs. Every year that he had
                        returned to college enriched his vague notion of things better than he had
                        known, and filled him at times with the soberest thoughts, which often
                        cleared his face of smiles and subdued his spirits into melancholy. Like
                        most of the older students, Clayton was now helping the newcomers through
                        the ordeal of entering college. (In this matter there is, perhaps, as much
                        ceremony in a small college as in a large one. It is no additional expense
                        to the college, and lends not a little dignity where much is needed.)
                    At one end of a long corridor which leads into some of the recitation rooms,
                        and where the students matriculate, there stood a young lady with a paper in
                        her hand and an expression of bewilderment in her face. She had evidently
                        gone partially through the ceremony of entering, but did not know what to do
                        next. She was a rather pretty girl, somewhat pale, and slenderly
                        proportioned. In a few moments Clayton introduced himself--the  upper-classmen often took this liberty in
                        these perplexing times to new students--and offered his assistance, which
                        the girl accepted with becoming grace.
                    "What is your name?" enunciated the fat Doctor of Divinity who was
                        registrar.
                    "Mary----," said the girl, in a gentle voice.
                    Clayton liked this girl, and when he walked to his room that night from the
                        post office, where the fellows generally congregated, he could not shake her
                        from his thoughts. But perhaps he didn't try very hard. A few weeks passed,
                        but he did not forget her, instead unconsciously watched her very closely ;
                        and didn't feel as comfortable as perhaps he ought when she seemed pleased
                        with the conversation of others. She did not have that effusive smile when
                        she spoke which both wins and loses quickly ; but rather wistfully, looked
                        full yet shyly at him, and allowed her large brown eyes to linger a moment
                        in his, as he passed. This was not art, though Clayton could have told no
                        difference if it  had been. He was one of
                        those honest lads to whom the coquette and true woman are the same. In his
                        mind he condemned the former and praised the latter; but in the world of
                        reality he could not distinguish ; he had not had any occasion as yet to be
                        schooled in that bitter school which teaches this distinction, and which too
                        often goes to the other extreme and stamps all as false and selfish.
                    Clayton called very regularly. She was the kind of girl, he thought, that
                        developed his better nature. She was quiet and gentle, never given to
                        passionate exaltations of any sort. She would have been easy clay for a
                        wicked potter; it seemed fortunate, therefore, for her as for him that they
                        had met. They studied, strolled, and played tennis together. Where one was
                        invited, it was understood that the other would need to be. Often when away
                        from the view of their fellows, she would look at him with that admiration
                        which was not gushing, but simple and unaffected, and which he was human and
                             innocent enough to believe a very
                        uncommon occurrence in human affairs.
                    That year passed, and they separated for a few months. Clayton went back to
                        the farm, and Mary to her home, which was in a small town about eighty miles
                        from the college. Her father kept the hotel of the town, and was a
                        well-known and respected man throughout the neighborhood. During that summer
                        many letters were exchanged reassuring each of the other's affection. About
                        the middle of the summer, Clayton visited the girl's home and had a pleasant
                        time. Her parents were agreeable ; they were not wealthy, yet comfortably
                        fixed, respected and gentle people. As he was about to take his departure,
                        he found that be had unconsciously got himself in love. He had never had any
                        designs upon the girl, he had gone with her simply because he liked her
                        company. But unknown to him, there began to be a demand in his life that no
                        one but her could satisfy. He was sure now that with him the game was up.
                        Thus it was arranged, but not with-  out many
                        earnest conversations, that Mary should become his bride after he had
                        graduated and to some extent won a place in the world. He returned home
                        without care and in high spirits.
                    They returned to college in the fall, and it was the same with them as the
                        year before. They grew up side by side, as the happy months glided by,
                        became used to each other's ways, neither being independent of the other. At
                        last commencement came, and they were to separate for--neither knew how
                        long. Clayton went to Chicago and entered a law office, and Mary went home
                        to live in the hope of that bright but indefinite day.
                    The birds sang again and the sun shone a second time on the summer's verdure
                        since their parting. Clayton had visited once; but could not come this
                        summer, for he was making his way by hard efforts. Letters came, but not so
                        frequently as at first, and as time went on they became hurried and strange.
                        The girl's trust was great else she would have feared. Her mother often
                        spoke to her  about the matter, but she would
                        only say, "He will come when it is time," and go about her tasks as usual.
                        Another summer passed, but neither Clayton nor letters came again. Mary's
                        face turned paler with the winter's snow. Her mother had told her as gently
                        as it was possible; but she would not believe. She became weak, then sick.
                        When she arose from her illness, her voice was changed, her face sad, and
                        her eyes fixed and uncertain.
                    To those who make a business of flirtation, who swear love to a different
                        person every change of the moon, this would have been a matter lightly
                        disposed of. This would have been one petty idol gone for a world of others.
                        Let none such ridicule. In this artless girl there was a relentless
                        conscience as pure as snow; and an affection that was everlasting. Rare
                        enough jewels, indeed, in this practical world. The just often perish on
                        what the wicked prosper.
                    Some days, when footsteps sounded, she  would
                        go to the door and look out; but it would only be her father.
                    "Father, did you see him to-day? Maybe if you would speak to him, he would
                        come. I saw him once, but he wouldn't stop. Father, you
                        speak to him. Tell him that it is the same as it used to be--that's all."
                        Then the father would take her in his arms, for she was a child again, and
                        smooth her snow-white forehead.
                    "Father, I don't ask him to stay long, if he is busy. Sometimes he comes up
                        to that door; but when I want to go to him, he waves his hand and goes away.
                            You speak to him, father."
                    The breast on which this child lay heaved with feeling no less than hers.
                        "Yes, I will speak to him," her father would say, "I will speak to him."
                    "Don't you love me any more?" she would often ask with that
                        ineffable expression which shows the starving heart, but which the father's
                        love could not satisfy.
                    Thus she lived and dreamed as months  passed
                        by, as her father died, as years passed by, until one winter they laid her
                        little body beneath a mound by the side of her father; and then it snowed a
                        long time, and the immaculate shroud covered their graves.
                    On one of Chicago's boulevards there stands a palace. Its richness and
                        majesty are ever quiet and lonely, and no children play around its doors.
                        There comes forth every morning a richly clothed, yet a bent and humble man.
                        He had married well in the eyes of the world, for money and for station, but
                        for no more. He had lived this life for years; but often when sorrow came
                        through distrust and hate where trust and love should have been, he saw a
                        figure come and go. It was the memory of the girl who stood in the corridor
                        back in the olden golden glory of his college days.
                
                
                
                    IN THE HOUSE OF CONTENTMENT
                    
                        "Ah, sweet Content, where is, thy mild abode?"
                        Barnabe Barnes.
                    
                    
                    IN THE HOUSE OF CONTENTMENT
                    IT will be forgiven me, I hope, for writing on a stock idea in literature.
                        The considerations involved here have been often written about, I know; but
                        then everyone has a right to his "say"; and so long as one's books are never
                        likely to be used as texts in schools, or required reading in literary
                        societies, there will be at least no very great imposition. It may be,
                        perchance, that we can hit upon some new avenue of approach by which we
                        shall come more directly to the castle of everyone's dreams, and see it as
                        it appears in the glimmer of this lantern, which is no brighter than others,
                        only different.
                    
                    There is no formula of happiness with which anyone need try to buy off the
                        dis-enchanting features of life. Experience is always bought at a high
                        figure; and all the optimistic babble in the world will not heal the wounds
                        of sorrow that flow ever and anon. Life is tragedy. The
                        death of the hero is all that tragedy requires, and every man is hero of his
                        own life's story. To think about life honestly and with a degree of insight
                        is no child's play. Do what one will, there will come a time--not afar
                        off!--when he shall be only so much decaying matter, which, to state the
                        truth bluntly, must be buried or burned not to inoculate the living with
                        disease. It seems as if we had been asleep, from the beginning of time, in
                        the semi-conscious cradle of infancy (for we cannot remember when we were
                        not); and one day awaking suddenly from this lethargy, we looked out at the
                        window for a moment, then fell back again to dose in the nirvana of eternity. And this moment was life.
                    Not long ago I heard a gentleman make a  speech
                        who had been for twenty years a member of the Senate of The United States.
                        The multitude was wild with enthusiasm as the orator fairly thundered in
                        power and splendor. He looked like a thing immortal when he made that
                        speech; but on this rainy day he is rotting in a wet grave about two miles
                        from where I write. But what is one life where there is a world full of
                        people !
                    Whenever I hear the slow and solemn steps of Chopin's , "Funeral March," I am
                        not so much reminded of the exit of one mortal from this world as of the
                        death and burial of humanity itself. There they come, the hoary giants,
                        marching down the corridors of time toward the generation in which I live;
                        and soon they will stand before it as they have stood before every other.
                        The entombed and rolling echo of their steps is now drowning the petty
                        voices of fames of generations that have been, and will soon delegate us to
                        the same speechless oblivion.
                    You have not long to think of these things before you curse God and wish to
                        make your  quietus with a bare bodkin. Many a
                        man does it; and many another makes a quietus of further effort in life,
                        answering you with, "What's the use?" No matter how great his effort, no one
                        ever came to anything but a corpse; and except for clinical purposes there
                        is not any difference in the value of corpses; and it is scarcely probable
                        that anyone calculates the worth of his immortality on that basis.
                    Scholars seek truth. There is no gain-saying what has been said above. It is
                        the literal truth. Death is the inevitable crown of life ; but whether it be
                        of gold or thorns, who shall say! To know truth is wisdom; but to know truth
                        concocted with much false-hood is greater wisdom, has fewer dregs, is
                        sweeter, and is all that holds the world together. Nothing short of
                        enthusiasm for some province of life's activity will prevent a man from
                        jumping into the black abyss. One must chase a phantom--and vigorously
                        too!--to get the most out of life.
                    I know a young lady who believes that it  is
                        the goal of happiness, and even of importance in the world, to be a school
                        teacher. This is absolute truth to her, and the source of much happiness.
                        Yet not one in a thousand would agree to give the school teacher so
                        prominent a place. She will be happy and useful with this misconception, and
                        unless she change it for another, she will be miserable and useless without
                        it.
                    A friend who was married recently tried to convince me that his wife is the
                        sweetest woman on earth. Now this fellow's chances for happiness are good so
                        long as he is able to house this fairy tale under his scalp and this wife
                        under his wing. He is not the only person in this world carrying about such
                        a delusion. I tried to convince him that another lady of my acquaintance had
                        more to justify the claims he made for his wife. Before the discussion
                        ended, three other gentlemen joined, each contending for the goddess of his
                        choice. After much useless debate, we went our several ways, happier for not
                        having been convinced. I have a  notion that
                        there is nothing greater than to be a writer of interesting books. I know
                        well enough that this is not true; but I don't like to argue against it, for
                        so much pleasure and interest in life for me depends upon soberly believing
                        it.
                    It is difficult enough for some persons to establish for themselves this kind
                        of private truth. Sometimes it is the shabbiness of the clothing on one's
                        back, the pains in one's stomach, or the needs of one's children that make
                        the price of vegetables, cloth, and similar commodities a source of pleasant
                        absorption. It is much better to have enthusiasm for the dry goods business
                        than for nothing at all. A friend tells me that there is nothing so well
                        adapted to give one enthusiasm for some sort of action as the necessity of
                        supporting a wife and children; that this is no unimportant argument in
                        favor of marriage; and that it keeps nonsense out of men's heads, and make
                        them play a less giddy and dangerous tone on the harp of daily life. In the
                        face of "Γαμειν ο μέλλων εις  μετάνοιαν
                        ερχεται" and "Le pays du marriage a cela de particulier, que les étrangers
                        ont envie de l'habiter, et les habitants naturals voudroient en être
                        exilés," and similar statements all the way from Menander to Montaigne and
                        long before and after both, I wonder if my friend was telling the truth.
                    Not one person in thousand is harmless idler, or knows how to take rest.
                        Leisure is a necessity for the development of art ; but also an ingredient
                        in anarchy. It is harder to get pleasure out of continued idleness than out
                        of continued work. One may have too much time as well as too little. When
                        one has nothing to do, he is likely to attempt a quarrel with God concerning
                        the mistakes in the construction of the universe. If such a one's time were
                        put to planting corn or making clothing, perhaps it would be better for the
                        rest of us, even though he handed down from his swivel chair a beautifully
                        bound and printed treatise on "The False Epistemological Postulates of the
                        Transcendental Aesthetic as a Propaedeutic to the Transcen-  dental Logic." Books on philosophy are
                        important to the world, of course, and so are well-regulated grocery stores
                        and honest lawyers. If one, therefore, have enthusiasm in his travelling
                        bag, let him keep it ! Be not an image breaker, for perhaps there are
                        nothing but images.
                    Old people ought to be careful not to disenchant youth of its rainbow gleams;
                        but they are continually doing it. "When you get as old as I am, then you
                        will see thus and so," says the old man, with not enough juice in his crusty
                        memory to recall how much joy he got out of courting his wife fifty years
                        ago (to say nothing of marrying her!). It is better for a crowd of young
                        people to laugh and shout than to sit down, as did Jonathan Edwards, and
                        resolve every day of their lives to meditate on death, the probable length
                        of time required for every vestige of their memory to disappear from the
                        earth, whether in fact life is immortal or whether at death the curtain
                        falls never to rise again. If we were standing on a high  mountain overlooking the earth, and if our
                        lives were without end, then we should say to the laughing, shouting crowd
                        of young people, "Why make ye merry, to-morrow ye die, and the next day are
                        grinning skeletons." But we are not on a high mountain overlooking the
                        earth, and our lives are not eternal; and perhaps, the young people wouldn't
                        derive much benefit, after all, in walking about to the end of their days
                        with frozen faces. When we contemplate the eternal, then are our minds
                        filled with serious questions; and then, according to our heart's religion,
                        do we become melancholy or hopeful.
                    No one need try to delude his neighbors that he knows what is after death.
                        Let the schoolmistress, therefore, work for her school, the husband for his
                        wife, and let every other child of the world take to himself some falsehood.
                        Let everyone think his sphere the greatest, let him work it with his might,
                        and though it never bring him to his gilded city, it has him housed all the
                        while in the best thin that this world can give.
                    
                    Many are the delusions of youth. That is why it is so rich in happiness. But
                        these fall away like husks from the grain; yet in prudent persons they will
                        not all fall away; and from those that are withered and juiceless others
                        will spring, perhaps no less delusive, yet having more apparent truth.
                    One can hardly ever realize the greatest happiness in the mere development of
                        himself, for there is the ever-present consciousness of inevitable decay;
                        and one no sooner gains a point than he seems to lose another; but one may
                        find pleasing absorption in the perfection of an institution which survives
                        his demise and abides by the effort of others, giving even a kind of
                        immortality. There is no denying that there is much genuine happiness in the
                        pursuit of some aim ; and however false the aims of others may seem, it is
                        well for us to hold fast to a definite fancy; and take exercise in so
                        primary a lesson as work. Arbeit ist der Tugend Quell." (I wish I never
                        forgot this.)
                
                
                
                    AT COMMMENCEMENT TIME
                    
                        "That was the last day of the royal line."
                        Ovid.
                    
                    
                    AT COMMENCEMENT TIME
                    I WENT back to the old college from which I graduated some years ago. It was
                        commencement time, which always brings back some of the "old boys and girls"
                        to their alma mater home. There were some whom the world
                        seemed to have prospered in worldly goods, for they were well dressed and
                        had some of the dignity which wealth gives; others had been prospered in
                        piety, which their long hair, spectacles, Prince Albert coats, and a certain
                        submissive crook of their clerical shoulders manifested; still others seemed
                        to have neither the advantage of wealth nor the goodness that long hair and
                        spectacles represent, yet in private conver- 
                        sation they too showed some gains, a gentle soul, a pet theory, a good wife
                        at home, or a bright boy--some admirable entities, to be sure.
                    Many of my more particular friends had changed. I say "many"--no, I mean all.
                        In my college days there was a charming girl I used to see occasionally, who
                        never had fewer than three sweethearts during a college year. Her time is
                        now spent in taking care of three rosy little second editions of herself. In
                        her great hope and greater imagination she was to be married to a
                        millionaire, but is now happy as the wife of a photographer.
                    There used to be a young gentleman with us who was very proud of his
                        beautiful hair. It was always parted with the exactness of a restaurant pie,
                        and combed and curled according to the latest style. It was the envy of the
                        boys and the idol of the girls--that is, the hair, not the fellow. But alas
                        ! either Providence is cruel, or the style of hair dressing is greatly
                        changed.
                    
                    
                        "Dicebam, medicare tuos desiste capillos:
                        Tingere quam possis jam tibi nulla coma est."
                    
                    It is parted now from ear to ear, running down in the back two inches below
                        his hat band, with not enough long hairs on either side to allow of an
                        attempt to raise them to the patch of sickly stubbles on the other,
                        exhibiting a florid scalp as irregular in topography as Yellow Stone Park
                        and as barren as Sahara. To be bald and to have a badly shaped pate is like
                        having an ugly soul and no wealth. Let a man be as poor as he will, if he
                        has a beautiful soul, he may still have much happiness. Thus while hair
                        often deceives us about the shape of the outside of people's heads, money
                        often deceives us about the shape of the inside.
                    Of all the changes time had wrought none were greater than the titles of some
                        of my old friends. These were a few of their names among the boys in
                        college, Hub, Gag, Tinnie, Bishop, and Kiddie. Now it is Mr. ------, A. M.,
                        chemist; Mr. ------, PH. B., LL. B., capitalist; Professor ------, A. M.,
                        professor  of Latin. These foolish, insipid,
                        loud and intolerant college boys, who made the lives of the citizens in the
                        little college town insecure and who, all the people predicted, would come
                        to nothing good--these very boys are stalwart, manly men. I have an idea it
                        is not good to be precocious, it makes one so liable to be childish in old
                        age.
                    There was a time when all these dissimilar elements which this commencement
                        gathers together were one. They studied in the same libraries, played the
                        same pranks, raved over the same "'profs," went in the same society, and at
                        last received their diplomas from the same "prexy's" hand. But they are one
                        now only for a while, then each will return to the nest that circumstances
                        and his ability have allowed him to build.
                    A class from back in the seventies had a reunion. It struck me that the women
                        looked better than the men. Most of the men were gray, and somewhat haggard
                        of countenance. The gentle and sympathetic expression of the college lad was
                        replaced by  the marks of many a battle for
                        health, wealth, and honor--perhaps in some instances for only a humble
                        living. Hand in hand they gathered around a large stone they had presented
                        to their alma mater many years ago, and sang their old
                        songs, and gave their old yells. There was genuine pathos in this spectacle.
                        There was meaning in every face, as if their souls were being again renewed,
                        and as if they were taking strength again from their mother's breast to live
                        for honor and for right. The last notes of the song stopped, the united
                        hands fell; for a moment no one moved or said anything, none laughed, and
                        but few smiled. It was twenty years since they had sung these songs by that
                        rock, it was a milestone on life's way, a looking backward, perhaps for some
                        the last.
                    I said that the women looked better than the men. They looked fresher and
                        younger, and their actions and countenances betrayed more of the college
                        girl than the men's did of the college boy. They stood quiet, and seemed
                        rather to be moved by the men's  emotions than
                        by memory. If this was a representation of the average college woman, and if
                        the women who took the arms of the men after the ceremonies were ended
                        represented the average college man's wife, it is not the worst thing in the
                        world for a woman to go to college, or at least to marry a college man.
                        These women evidently preside over good, though perhaps in some instances
                        modest, households. No doubt the women of the upper classes fare best in
                        this world. If there is any abuse in this class, and certainly there is, the
                        men are the unfortunates. Many a wealthy man labors from morning till night,
                        from one year to another, without any suggestion of a vacation, while his
                        wife and sons and daughters have a good time spending the money without even
                        so much as appreciation. Many a man is working himself to death not only for
                        his sons and daughters, but his sons and daughters-in-law, and their
                        children and children's children. Generous, yellow-skinned, gray-bearded
                        man, what love is this that is so sac- 
                        rificing! The women who have the most to bear in this life are the wives in
                        the lower classes, and yet there are none more faithful. There seemed to be
                        none of these present at this commencement. If there were any anywhere,
                        perhaps they didn't come. But I doubt if there were any.
                    In the evening I attended a meeting of the Greek-letter fraternity of which I
                        am a member. The active members assembled were from seventeen to twenty-four
                        years of age. There were about fourteen altogether. After most of the
                        business had been disposed of (and these fellows have lots of it--you would
                        be surprised!), I noticed that a restless feeling began to seize a few of
                        the members. They began to whisper to one another; when presently a very
                        proper and finely-dressed member of about nineteen arose and said, "Mr.
                        President, I move that Brother Cooper set 'em up.'" The motion was promptly
                        seconded by member on the other side of the house. The President asked if
                        the question should be put. Presently an- 
                        other member arose. This was Cooper. He did not seemed pleased, and began to
                        argue the injustice of compelling him to do this thing. He said that he had
                        always been generous, and was now hard up, that his graduation was costing
                        him a great deal, and that he ought to be excused. He stated further that it
                        was customary in the fraternity for the under-classmen to "set 'em up" to
                        the Seniors upon graduation, and that he being a Senior, ought, of right, to
                        be treated to refreshments by them.
                    By this time, three or four of the other members were on the floor, and there
                        were cries for the question. Several other speeches were made--all very
                        earnest, not the least bogus or insincere. This was indeed a peculiar
                        spectacle. Here were thirteen men who had the notion that they wanted ice
                        cream and cigars and other delicacies to tickle the palate, and decided that
                        Cooper should pay. What could Cooper do? He beat them in every argument; but
                        they had the numbers. The honorable president,  who by this time had become pretty hungry for refreshments, closed the
                        debate in the middle of one of Cooper's speeches, and called for the vote.
                        The unfortunate brother was compelled to spend five dollars for no fault of
                        his whatever.
                    Upon inquiry, I learned that there was no grudge against Cooper; but that the
                        caprice of the majority might at any time seize upon anyone, and subject him
                        to whatever it chose. I learned that on one occasion the merciless majority
                        passed a measure compelling one of the members either to make the highest
                        grade in his French class or not to see his best girl on Sunday nights for
                        seventeen consecutive weeks. The fellow made the grade!
                    After the meeting had closed, and the refreshments had been served, instead
                        of receiving thanks, Cooper was grabbed by five or six of the others, and
                        ruthlessly bumped against the wall. O college days!
                    In this world there not always comes a time of paying up, of compensation, or
                        of  paying back, if you wll. But I doubt
                        whether the college student does not "get even " for so little as the
                        slightest offence. There comes, just before the day of receiving diplomas, a
                        very important day to the graduating class. This is a day on which old
                        debts, old grudges, and old spites are made level, which could not perhaps
                        be made level at any other time. The student cannot well tell the professor
                        that he is an old fossil before he has passed his examinations; or say to
                        the president that his policy of education is narrow and absurd. On class
                        day, which is the name of this day of judgment, many graduating classes
                        finally set at rest their sense of justice and responsibility by doing just
                        such things.
                    On the class day of this commencement a play was given, which said:
                        "Professor------, you are very gallant for an old man; you must not court so
                        lovingly, especially in such conspicuous places, Miss-----, who is twenty
                        years your junior. You are an old fossil; and must relieve our eyes of
                        further  offence by either marrying this woman
                        at once, or by doing your courting in the night when the moon doesn't
                        shine."
                    To another professor the play said : "You are a bag of wind. Will you never
                        stop talking ? Do you not know that you make yourself very ridiculous by
                        using so many hackney Latin and Greek phrases that you have studied in
                        Webster's Unabridged Dictionary? We do not believe you understand Latin and
                        Greek."
                    To another: "You are a silly old woman. Why don't you stop your whining and
                        be a man? You ought to get married. There are plenty of nice girls here. If
                        you can't support one by teaching, get a position for which you are better
                        fitted. We recommend you to Mr. --------'s dry goods store, as a clerk in
                        the lace department."
                    To the president was said: "You are very good and pious; but you could be
                        better."
                    The under-classmen were treated to the severest blows. The Freshman class,
                        which had evidently caused the Seniors much 
                        trouble during the year, being much stronger in numbers, which counts for
                        more than a knowledge of the classics and philosophy in a rough and tumble
                        fight, received such compliments as these: "Freshmen, you are too green ever
                        to hope of becoming ripe. The young ladies of your class ought never to
                        receive you when you do not wear neckties and cuffs, and do not have your
                        hair combed. By all means, Freshmen, have your hair cut sometime this summer
                        before you go back to the farm, else your aunt Maria might think we have no
                        barbers here; and for the sake of the college, don't let her cut it, as she
                        did just before you came here at the beginning of this year. That would be
                        awful. Mr. F------ Y------, of your class, owes Mrs. Brown fifty cents for
                        washing. Mrs. Brown told us that she had done his washing all year, and that
                        he had not as yet paid her a cent. See that this is paid, or we shall write
                        to Y-----'s father."
                    No one escaped against whom this mighty class had any feeling. Every one who
                        had  been scathed had to take these things
                        good-humoredly. Some of the professors seemed bored, but that only made the
                        spectacle more ridiculous. It was discretion to smile at one's own head
                        lying beside the executioner's block. Some even laughed, and got not a
                        little enjoyment out of it. There was no use to cry, or lose one's temper,
                        or try to stop the proceedings. It was Class Day, a traditional day, and all
                        seemed agreed that there was no higher power than the graduates.
                    There is perhaps no time in a college student's life when more mingled
                        feelings arise than the day on which he receives his diploma. There is joy
                        and there is sorrow. For many a long year he has toiled patiently for this
                        great event, for the time when he might consider himself qualified to take
                        an active part in the world's affairs. But alas! when he begins to question
                        himself, he finds that he does not wish to go out into the world, much less
                        mingle with its coarseness and philistinism, and be compelled to take inter-
                             est in what to him resembles the ooze of
                        a malarious swamp more than his notion of civilization. The tie that binds
                        the friends of youth is to be broken forever. The many petty but pleasant
                        concerns of their past lives are to be crushed out of his mind by the
                        sterner facts of life, responsibility, labor and subordination. He has been
                        monarch, but is soon to become a slave. His friends who remain will watch
                        his career; but to them he will be like one dead. If he be successful, his
                        deeds may seem like the doings of angels ; but his voice will be heard only
                        from afar; and after all he will be in reality still as common a man as
                        those he left behind, whose voices will come to him as faint and unfamiliar
                        as his comes to them. His graduation is now a thing realized, and like most
                        every other realization in this world, it does not give as much happiness as
                        the striving that it costs. Filled with ideals and idols, he knows not
                        whither to direct his footsteps, lest some one of the selfish and unmindful
                        crowds should elbow his plaster of Paris to the pave-  ment; and there he would be left to weep over his fallen
                        Madonna, shattered into a thousand piees. It is sad day--this Commencement
                        Day--for these young fellows. To the young ladies there are fewer paths
                        open, consequently less bewilderment concerning their future. But the
                        separation of friends is perhaps more keenly felt by them than by the young
                        gentlemen.
                    Many a college graduate asks himself on this memorable day, as he asks
                        himself again and again through life's long journey, "Was it worth the
                        while?" This is not as open a question to many as it is to me. But how ever
                        it is answered, and however much the college man has yet to learn after he
                        leaves his almra mater, one thing is true : it is glorious
                        to have gone to college; and if rightly directed, one's life may retain at
                        least some of that lustre, and shed it upon those whom he meets in the many
                        highways and byways whither he shall go.
                
                
                
                    A FEW FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF HARVARD
                    
                        "The summer dawn is breaking
                        On Auburn's tangled bowers,
                        The golden light is waking
                        On Harvard's ancient towers."
                        Holmes.
                    
                    
                    A FEW FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF HARVARD
                    A JAPANESE lecturing in his own country on American colleges said that
                        Harvard was a place where young men played foot-ball, and on rainy days read
                        books. Though in the science of rhetoric we call this a hyperbole, and in
                        common parlance, a false-hood, it has nevertheless a germ of truth.
                    During the first few days before college opens, one may stand anywhere about
                        the buildings and see scores and scores of young men, arms akimbo, carrying,
                        after the English fashion, bundles of all sorts of sticks.
                    So far as I know the English carry only canes and umbrellas ; but these
                        Harvard students carry canes, umbrellas, fencing foils,  guns, tennis rackets, and almost every other implement known
                        to athletic sport. One begins to wonder whether Harvard is a university or a
                        picnic ground. All these instruments, in connection with pipes, which are
                        smoked to strengthen the jaws, but more often strengthen the breath, are
                        used to develop the body.
                    One is reminded of the wealthy farmer who, when asked if he were going to
                        send his son to college replied, "No, John never did, and I s'pose never
                        will care anything for games."
                    Nevertheless, however much college students may be criticised for time spent
                        in athletic sports, one beneficial result is inevitable. The time when one
                        may not lay claim to the title of scholar unless he have pallid lips, sunken
                        cheeks, poor lungs, and a torpid liver, is passing away. Athletics is the
                        best medicine for all ailments, except toothache, love sickness and other
                        kindred ailments. Tennis when played with a young lady, is even good for
                        love sickness.
                    
                    A very marked peculiarity of Harvard students is that a large percentage wear
                        glasses. Specs, of some sort, it seems, are as essential to good taste as
                        the latest styles in clothing. Aside from correcting optical defects,
                        glasses keep the dust from one's eyes, for in New England there are at times
                        very high winds, so that those who wear them for style may, to some extent
                        at least, quiet their consciousness of pride.
                    The pipe habit has a very strong hold on the Harvard student. On endeavoring
                        to find why pipe smoking should be more in vogue here than at other
                        colleges, I was told by an under-classman that mosquitoes are very abundant
                        in these regions in summer, and that in winter the severe cold obliges one
                        to carry as much heat as possible about the body. Thus the whole thing is
                        reduced to a scientific basis. What more could one ask?
                    In Cambridge some statues dot the beautiful campuses, and hundreds of
                        paintings hang about the walls. In the Common there  stands a bronze figure of John Bridge. No doubt this gentleman
                        was worthy of a statue--all good men are. But when I found that it was given
                        to the city by Mr. Samuel J. Bridge, a descendant of the gentleman thus
                        immortalized, I was reminded of an ambitious merchant in Saginaw, Michigan,
                        who erected a statue of himself in the most conspicuous place in that city.
                        The Cambridge affair is more delicate; but does it not savor a little of the
                        same thing? Rhere is more art talk in Cambridge and in Boston to the square
                        foot than there is to the square mile in Chicago--perhaps more real art too. "But what is art? It is not utility," says the
                        Chicagoan, forgetting all the while that statues make fine loafing places,
                        convenient match-strikers, and excellent whetstones for chronic whittlers.
                        No great city could think of having a poetic or romantic riot, unless the
                        rioters gathered beneath the bronze or marble image of some historic
                        personage. To say that John Jones was killed in the Haymarket does not make
                        heroic music  murmur in the ear like, "He fell
                        beneath Saint Gaudens's Lincoln." Great romance requires history.
                    There are many paintings, too, in this old site of learning. In the long run,
                        paintings are cheap: the walls of some of the store-houses of art have not
                        been papered for years, the portraits of forgotten saints and statesmen, of
                        mayors, Puritan farmers, and school trustees affording ample decoration.
                        This is a fact not yet appreciated in some parts of our country. In some of
                        the dusty and smoky centers of population, the art of the easel ought to
                        thrive more luxuriantly.
                    I have referred several times to the young men who go to Harvard as
                        "students." This is a word one seldom or never hears. It is always the
                        "Harvard man." The word "student" seems to carry with it the idea of infancy
                        or youth or immaturity, and everything of this sort is spurned by the
                        devotees at this classic shrine. I think the "Harvard man" expression much
                        better. These young men are a manly lot of fellows. In my  sojourns in other college towns, I have been
                        frequently accosted by boarding-house keepers and washer-women, either to
                        pay somebody else's debt or to persuade an erring brother to pay his own.
                        Whether my countenance is that of a debtor or a corrector of public wrongs,
                        I have not as yet decided. I am free to confess, to the credit of Harvard
                        College, that in all my stay there, I was never accosted by a single
                        washer-woman.
                    Another expression common about Cambridge and Boston, and through all New
                        England, is the "Commonwealth of Massachusetts." Since we have so many
                        states, it is not an unwelcome variation ; but no one revels more in this
                        expression than the Bostonian himself.
                    One of the greatest treats for the Harvard student is Boston, the city in
                        which the sun rises and sets, the "Hub of the Universe," where bootblacks
                        read Ibsen, and servant girls recite Shakespeare and dote on Browning. You
                        will scarcely find people anywhere who are more contented with their  surroundings than the residents of Boston. If
                        any disease really flourishes it is anglo-mania. It is little or no part of
                        their education to know whether Indianapolis is the capital of North Dakota
                        or Kentucky. They are not extremely wealthy; but very critical in matters of
                        science and art.
                    In Boston one may believe what one likes with impunity, if reason can be
                        given why judgment should not be rendered against him. The theatre is loved
                        like the church, and is quite as great a source of moral inspiration. The
                        city government is in the hands of the good people, and there is law and
                        order. A Bostonian is as proud of the history of his town as a small boy is
                        of his first long trousers. I was shown the Boston Common one day, where the
                        boys of the Revolution skated. The friend who was showing me about said that
                        it was the very same pond, and an enthusiastic gentleman maintained that it
                        was the identical water.
                    The women are not so voluptuous as in the  but
                        they have very great intellectual interest. They are full of ideas and
                        entertaining talk, which interest the men quite as much as the physical
                        buoyancy other women hold continually in evidence. They have a charming air
                        of independence. In the streetcar they can stand as well as the men; and in
                        the drawing-room they know how to please without resort to fawning or
                        entreaty.
                    All these treasures of Boston a Harvard student may enjoy, if he have the
                        cunning to find, and the ability to be worthy of them. If he have artistic
                        instincts, he will find knights of the brush, the key-board, and wet clay.
                        It is much as it is in Paris, with less Bohemianism and much more
                        respectability.
                    There are all sorts of organizations about the university for the advancement
                        of learning, and people are judged more by breeding and learning than by
                        money. It has been so from the beginning. Nearly everyone is interested in
                        the beauty that decorates the  world, and the
                        music and books that charm it. Instead of bemg shown the millionaires, the
                        scholars are pointed out. This is a pleasant contrast in a land where wealth
                        seems to be the only thing worth striving for. One is shown where the great
                        and wise have lived and labored, and the historic places connected with
                        their memory. West Boston Bridge was pointed out to me as the bridge
                        Longfellow had in mind in his poem "The Bridge." One day, coming back to
                        Cambridge, I walked over this bridge, much to my sorrow. There was a high
                        wind, and my hat blew off into the water. I recalled, with certain
                        modifications, those meaning lines:--
                    
                        Among the long black rafters
                        The wavering shadows lay,
                        And the current that came from the ocean
                        Seemed to lift and bear my hat away.
                    
                    
                        How often, oh ! how often,
                        I wished that the ebbing tide
                        Had not borne my hat on its bosom
                        O'er the ocean wild and wide.
                    
                    
                    
                        For I was very cold and restless,
                        And my head had little hair,
                        And the hat that was taken from me
                        Was all that I had to wear.
                    
                    After walking many squares with reverent uncovered head, I arrived at my room
                        and began to doctor a severe cold, which with many pleasant recollections of
                        Harvard College, I carried away several weeks after.
                
                
                
                    PROSE-POETRY AND SYMBOLISM
                    
                        "It is a little piece of prose,
                        In form and style excelling;
                        But what it means no man knows,
                        It is, indeed, pastelling."
                        Chap-Book.
                    
                    
                    PROSE-POETRY AND SYMBOLISM
                    ALL lovers--not sweetheart lovers, for this is no tale of woe or wooing--of
                        good literature must certainly have watched with interest the trend of
                        polite letters in this latter part of the century. The end of this century
                        has come to be called decadent. This has been due to the everlasting revolt
                        which the modern novel, more than anything else, has made against the social
                        order of the day. The one word that characterizes most nearly correctly the
                        theme of the modern novel is sociology. Nearly every new book (and
                        especially those by women) has some new fault to find with the relations
                        which make the world of mankind an organic whole. I am not one of those who
                        look disparagingly  upon this class of
                        literature as a whole. Certainly Ibsen, who is perhaps the greatest thinker
                        among these, has shown an insight into the social relations of toay which,
                        it seems to me, no thoughtful person can disparage. But the general cry is
                        that modern literature is continually pulling down our time honored
                        institutions, and offers no substitute or remedy ; it is destructive,
                        decadent.
                    But decadence has not only taken place in the subject-matter of literature,
                        but also in its form, is the cry of the critic. The drama, with many
                        dramatists, has lost its technique; the scene is changed every five minutes,
                        and there are all sorts of characters (many without moral character at all)
                        instead of the stock characters of time-honored dramatic form. Some recent
                        "reputable" novels are entirely without form (and are void, too). They run
                        on and on, and "kick" and "kick" until the writer gets tired, then the
                        characters are killed or get married (which is nearly as bad) and the novel
                        is ended.
                    
                    Poetry is now written in prose; alas! who would have thought it! Thus the
                        critic cries, "decadence, decadence everywhere."
                    It is of this latter form of decadence that I shall babble a bit. The most
                        liberal definition of a poem is, I should say, passion on paper. Now, the
                        only reason that some passion is written in verse is to give it an
                        additional force to reproduce itself in the reader, for certain passions
                        seem to associate well with rhyme and rhythm; but, it seems to me, not all.
                        There are feelings as formless as a muddy street; for example, terror. Mere
                        want of form seems to heighten this emotion. Why then verify it? I can see
                        no artistic reason. Thus, I think it may be truthfully said that some
                        feelings are more effective in prose. This is what the prose-poem is, or
                        should be. The form a thing is written in does not characterize the kind of
                        literature it is. Some paragraphs in prose are very poetical, and some
                        "things " in verse are very prosaic.
                    Closely allied to prose-poetry is symbol-  ism,
                        another manifestation, according to the decadent critic, of the degeneracy
                        of "the end of the century literature." Maurice Maeterlinck is perhaps the
                        greatest modern symbolist. Symbolism in art is where the production -- book,
                        picture, statue, or any other product of the fine arts -- tells something in
                        a new language, that is, implies and suggests a thought which it does not
                        speak out. It was the highest type of symbolism when Christ "called a little
                        child unto Him, and set him in the midst of them (the disciples) and said:
                        'Verily, I say unto you, except ye become as little children, ye shall not
                        enter into the kingdom of heaven.'" So in each of Maeterlinck's dramas there
                        is something told which is not said, there is a meaning lurking therein.
                    But Maeterlinck is more than a symbolist, he is a poet. The same dramas which
                        speak so forcibly through the symbol are also great poems--poems of terror
                        in which that emotion is aroused with the subtlety of genius. Though the
                        dramas are written in  prose they are as
                        poetic in the realm of the terrible as anything in any modern literature.
                        They are prose-poems as well as dramatic symbols.
                    It is generally understood that these two forms of literature are quite
                        distinct; but I do not see how that can be. There may be poetry without a
                        symbol; but hardly a symbol without poetry, so long as the symbol is
                        literature in the restricted sense. The meaning of the symbol must somehow
                        be made manifest; and it is invariably done through the emotional effect
                        produced either in a character or directly in the reader. It is therefore no
                        less a poem than a symbol.
                    I have attempted below a bit of this kind of literature, the symbol
                        prose-poem, which is given, of course, with due apologies. The reader must
                        try to look at the following from an artistic point of view (if it be not
                        sacrilegious to call it art), as a specimen of, or kind of introduction to,
                        that tendency in the art of letters which has been so ingeniously developed
                        by Maurice Maeterlinck, Bliss  Carman, Gilbert
                        Parker, William Sharp, and others.
                    
                        THE OLD MAN'S ANSWER
                        Everyone has a right to his own opinion--that is true," said the old
                            man.
                        "Of course he has, by that sentence you show that you are a philosopher.
                            But these things are nothing to me now." Then, more gently, he added,
                            "they were once; but when youth goes, so does credulity."
                        The old man said nothing, but turned his kindly old face, nearly hidden
                            in a snowy beard, toward his companion. It was a look of which one could
                            use the word venerable. His eye had no fire, but oceans of compas- sion
                            and affection.
                        The younger man said: "To be honest,-- and I can be so with you,--what do
                            we know? Here is the world, with its history--what a history!--every
                            epoch brings new morals, new religion, a new God. To-day we ridicule
                            what we worshiped yesterday. To  what
                            shall we pray to-morrow? But why do I speak about these things?" he
                            continued in a low and hopeless voice, as he drew his glasses from his
                            eyes and the lines disappeared but slowly from his forehead.
                        The old man was not looking at him now, but sat meditatively with his
                            pure white hands folded on his lap; his snowy hair, falling over his
                            temples, nearly touched his shoulders, now bent with years. "No, speak
                            on," said he in the tremor of age and gentleness. But for the settling
                            of the waning embers in the great, old fire-place, and the roar of an
                            occasional gust of wind which played havoc with the falling snow, there
                            was silence in the room--but not in the heart of one.
                        The younger man's brow was knitted again. "Who is right?" he began;
                            "to-day from ten thousand pulpits nearly as many doctrines come. Each
                            one knows he is right, and hell will get those who disbelieve. Are any
                            of them right? How the mysteries of the Bible fade in the searchlight of
                            science !  --fire will always burn! death is eternal! Yet it is
                            pleasant to lie to the soul; I have done it, but cannot now." His lip
                            curled as he spoke this last sentence. It was not the face of pompous
                            ignorance, for that is easily brushed away. He had pursued with ardent
                            care the systems of thought which would reason God and immortality into
                            the world, he had had a light in his breast, he had had hopes; but years
                            had passed, and he was bereft now. It was, therefore, the grimace of a
                            mind which had gone to the limits of knowledge, and had recoiled from
                            the eternal hopeless night beyond. It was the heart terror which sooner
                            or later draws a pall over the heart itself--and that is
                            resignation.
                        Only the early gray glimmer of winter evening now lighted the room. The
                            old man was still silent; his face showed the compassion of his noble
                            soul. A little sunbeam, his grandchild, was sitting in his lap. He was
                            smoothing her golden hair as her eyes looked into his face. Here in this
                            chair  sat the last two of them left on
                            earth, yet they did not despair.
                        "Grandpapa, grandpapa, what makes it snow" asked the little gold head,
                            wistfully.
                        The old man only pressed the little darling to his breast and she
                            understood.
                    
                    
                        WHAT THE NIGHT SAID
                        "So you are going away," she said pensively. "I am sorry. I shall miss
                            you -- we have been much together. How long the time will seem !"
                        Outside it was night and winter, the wind howled about the house,
                            scattering the dingy snow off roof and knoll o'er the desolate frozen
                            streets; the tall stark trees creaked against the bitter blasts--without
                            'twas night and winter.
                        "I go to-night," said a voice dead with resignation -- "to-night."
                        "We have known each other so long, you 
                            have come so often, that I cannot think how 'twill be. Why don't you
                            stay? You have everything here--friends, home, hope. What else do you
                            wish? The desolate world cannot give you more. Yet you will go?"
                        The wind blew, the night grew darker, the windows rattled in the
                            casement.
                        "I go to-night," the deep, dead voice said --"to-night."
                        "I cannot understand--was our association but a passing comradeship? Last
                            summer did we not walk the woods together? were we not happy? you often
                            told me so. Oh, stay! Think of the future! You will not go ! You will
                            not go !
                        The door opened, the wind still howled, the trees still creaked, the
                            night was darker, and the dead voice only said :--
                        "I go to-night."
                        Into the dark, with outstretched arms, she cried, "Oh, stay! Oh, stay! I
                            cannot understand! I cannot understand!" The night wind moaned,
                            "Cannot--cannot understand?"
                    
                    
                    
                        THE LIGHT WITHIN
                        It is a night in November, not cold, but chill; a dim mysterious twilight
                            blurs the blackness of the night. The place is not far from a bridge,
                            under which the glistening water quivers in the light shining from the
                            windows of a few house-boats on the bank and a dim signal-lantern
                            hanging from the middle pier.
                        Clumsy footsteps are heard in the distance coming rapidly towards the
                            river; everything else is still. The footsteps become louder and louder
                            and presently a low-set, heavily-built man emerges from the dark. His
                            head, covered with a slouched hat pulled down upon his forehead, turns
                            furtively to the right and left. He suddenly stops and looks about.
                        Coming up to the railroad track on an inclined path from the house-boats
                            a tall, slender man is seen. He reaches the grade, stands for a moment,
                            stretches himself and yawns, then saunters towards the bridge.
                        
                        They meet. The short man mumbles something.
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            What?
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (Nerousy.) How far is it to the bridge?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Not very far. (Pointing to the signal light.) Where
                                you see that lantern.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            The lantern?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Yes, that is the middle of the bridge.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            You know these parts ?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Yes.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            Where is the river deepest ?
                        
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Beneath the lantern.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (Repeating.) Beneath the lantern. Would one strike
                                bottom there?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            From where?
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            From the bridge.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            No, for there is a whirlpool there. To jump from the bridge is
                                death.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (Hurrying towards the bridge.) Beneath the lantern
                                is death. Beneath the lantern is death.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            (Becoming animated of a sudden.) Wait ! Wait !
                            (The short man stops.)
                        
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            (Approaching.) Where are you going?
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            To the lantern where the whirlpool is. Why do you call me back?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            The watch will see you ; he will drive you back. No one is allowed on
                                the bridge at night. It is very dangerous.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            Then I will go. What do I care for the watch ?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            But you would not murder, too?
                            (There is a moment's silence. A distant tocsin begins to strike.)
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            (Counting the strokes.)
                                One--two--three--four--five--six--seven--eight--nine--ten--eleven.
                                Soon the watch will put out the light and go home, when the last
                                train is  heard to whistle; then you
                                can go to the middle of the bridge, where the lantern hangs, above
                                the whirlpool.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            And till then?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            (Starting down the path.) Till then come with
                                me.
                            (It is black night now. They feel their way down the path. The lights
                                in the house-boats are out. They have descended, and walk along a
                                steep bank, beneath which the river splashes the boom-logs.)
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (Stopping and looking down.) Is the river deep
                                here? I hear splashing--what is it?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Boom-logs. Come !
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            One could not reach the water here, then?
                        
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            No. Come!
                            (They reach the brink and enter a house-boat.)
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Sit down.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            It is very dark.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Yes, the candle has burned out. We must not speak loud; it is time
                                for sleep.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            Who will awake?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            (Ignoring the question.) And to-night you would end
                                it all?
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            Yes, to-night.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Why to-night?
                        
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            Why not to-night? I belong nowhere. There is little happiness in this
                                world. Happiness is a state of mind which none but fools and
                                children enjoy. The moment thought enters into life, that moment the
                                inevitable tragedy of the world appears.
                            To think is to see the inconsistency of all things.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Why think?
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (With a cynical chuckle.) That is it. How can one
                                who is capable of thought help thinking? I have studied at the
                                universities. Before I studied, when I was a child, I was happy; but
                                now that I have studied the world I see it as it is. The ignorant
                                chase phantoms; that is happiness. The wise cannot sufficiently
                                coddle the mind to do this.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            You are wealthy then?
                        
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            I have a living my father left it to me.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            What is your business?
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            I have none.
                            (There is a short pause).
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            How can the dancers smile when they represent so many funerals? How
                                can the mouth laugh at all when it is soon to be as dry as a
                                crust?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Why think of these things ?
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            Are they not true?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            Yes, but---
                        
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (Interrupting.) I hear chains. Do you hear chains
                                rattling?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            I hear nothing.
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            We are moving. I feel that we are moving.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            (Jumping to his feet.) We are moving! The boat has
                                broken loose! My God, we are lost! The rapids! the rapids!
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (Calmly.) Now I need not go to the middle pier
                                where the water is deepest. We will die together.
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN
                            (Thrusting open the door.) We are away from the
                                shore! The rapids! the rapids!
                            (The cry of a child is heard in a corner of the boat.)
                        
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            What is that?
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            (Raging.) We are lost!
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            It is a child's cry!
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            It is my child's cry! We are lost!
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (Groping about and finding a child.) A child -- it
                                is a child !
                        
                        
                            TALL MAN.
                            We are upon the rapids! In a moment we are lost!
                        
                        
                            SHORT MAN.
                            (Lifting the child upon his back.) Now I have a
                                duty. Thank God. Life! Life! (Plunging into the
                                    water.) Follow! Follow!
                            (The water seethes and swirls, the train whistles, the light on the
                                bridge is out, and it is black night.)
                        
                    
                
            
        
    
