
       ----CITATION---- 
        Haworth, Paul Leland,
                                    1876-1936. The Path of Glory: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3889
       ----FULL TEXT----
        
            
                  
                  
                        THE PATH OF GLORY
                  
                  
                  
                        
                              "Down they went, amid the screams of the women, on the
                                    final plunge into a foaming cauldron." FrontispieceSee page135 
                        
                        
                  
                  
                  
                        
                              THE PATH OF GLORY
                        
                         BY PAUL LELAND HAWORTH
                        
                        WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY  HARRY C. EDWARDS
                        
                              BOSTON
                              LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY
                              1911
                        
                  
                  
                  
                        Copyright, 1911, 
                               By Little, Brown, and Company
                              
                              All rights reserved
                               Published April, 1911 
                        THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, U.S.A.
                  
                  
                  
                        To the Mother  Of the Real Little Barnaby 
                  
                  
                  
                        
                              "The French dominion is a memory of the past; and
                                    when we evoke its departed shades they rise upon us from their
                                    graves in strange romantic guise. Again their ghostly campfires
                                    seem to burn, and the fitful light is cast around on lord and
                                    vassal and black-robed priest, knit in close fellowship on the
                                    same stern errand. A boundless vision grows upon us: an untamed
                                    continent; vast wastes of forest verdure; mountains silent in
                                    primeval sleep; river, lake, and glimmering pool; wilderness
                                    oceans mingling with the sky. Such was the domain which France
                                    conquered for Civilization. Plumed helmets gleamed in the shade
                                    of its forests; priestly vestments in its dens and fastnesses of
                                    ancient barbarism. Men steeped in antique learning, pale with
                                    the close breath of the cloister, here spent the noon and
                                    evening of their lives, ruled savage hordes with mild parental
                                    sway, and stood serene before the direst shapes of death. Men of
                                    courtly nurture, heirs to the polish of a far-reaching ancestry,
                                    here, with their dauntless hardihood, put to shame the boldest
                                    sons of toil."
                              --FRANCIS PARKMAN, in Pioneers of France in the New World.
                        
                        
                  
                  
                  
                        CONTENTS
                        
                              I. THE HERALDS1
                                    
                              
                              II. THE DEFIANCE12
                                    
                              
                              III. THE WARNING29
                                    
                              
                              IV. THE CABIN
                                    IN THE CLEARING40
                                    
                              
                              V. QUEBEC MEETS JAMESTOWN
                                    56
                                    
                              
                              VI. THE LISTENER
                                    63
                                    
                              
                              VII. IN THE WILDERNESS
                                          LODGE
                                    70
                                    
                              
                              VIII. THE CAPTIVES
                                    77
                                    
                              
                              IX. 'TWIXT THE CUP AND THE
                                          LIP
                                    84
                                    
                              
                              X. 'THE PARTING
                                    89
                                    
                              
                              XI. DID LE BON DIEU HEAR?
                                          101
                                    
                              
                              XII. THE BURSTING OF THE
                                          STORM
                                    107
                                    
                              
                              XIII. THE MASSACRE
                                    114
                                    
                              
                              XIV. THE AVENGERS
                                    120
                                    
                              
                              XV. THE FIGHT AT THE RAPIDS
                                    131
                                    
                              
                              XVI. A CHANGE OF SCENE
                                    140
                                    
                              
                              XVII. OLD FRIENDS MEET AGAIN
                                    153
                                    
                              
                              XVIII. IN THE DRAWING-ROOM
                                    164
                                    
                              
                              XIX. THE HIRELINGS
                                    174
                                    
                              
                              XX. A SEIGNIORY OF THE OLD
                                          RéGIME
                                    179
                                    
                              
                              XXI. AN INTERRUPTION
                                    189
                                    
                              
                              XXII. A BLOW FALLS
                                    200
                                    
                              
                              XXIII. ALFREDE
                                    211
                                    
                              
                              
                               CHAPTERPAGE
                              
                               XXIV. A SWORD IS SHARPENED
                                    217
                                    
                              
                               XXV. A FRIEND IN NEED
                                    228
                                    
                              
                               XXVI. THE WATCHER AT THE
                                          WINDOW
                                    235
                                    
                              
                               XXVII. A BASKET OF WINE
                                    241
                                    
                              
                               XXVIII. BEHIND THE LATTICE
                                    254
                                    
                              
                               XXIX. THE TRIBES GATHER FOR THE LAST TIME
                                    263
                                    
                              
                               XXX. THE MEETING ON THE
                                          PLATEAU
                                    270
                                    
                              
                               XXXI. A RECONNAISSANCE
                                    281
                                    
                              
                               XXXII. JAMES WOLFE
                                    288
                                    
                              
                               XXXIII. THE PATHS OF GLORY
                                    300
                                    
                              
                               XXXIV. THE FATE OF A CONTINENT
                                    308
                                    
                              
                               XXXV. SÀKI ONCE MORE
                                    318
                                    
                              
                               XXXVI. THE STONE MILL
                                    327
                                    
                              
                               XXXVII. EASTOVER
                                    338
                                    
                              
                        
                  
                  
                  
                        ILLUSTRATIONS
                        
                              "Down they went, amid the screams of the women, on the
                                    final plunge into a foaming caldron"
                                          Frontispiece
                                    
                                    
                              
                              "'You see that Virginians are not always made
                                    prisoners, mademoiselle,' said he, smiling"Page 85
                                    
                              
                              "'You are Captain Randolph, are you
                                    not?' asked the officer"" 200
                                    
                              
                              "Kneeling beside the body, she feverishly placed her
                                    hand over the heart""336
                                    
                              
                        
                  
            
            
                  
                  
                        THE PATH OF GLORY
                        
                              CHAPTER I
                               THE HERALDS 
                              "ANOTHER tree across the
                                    trace!" announced the youthful horseman in the lead.
                                    Without waiting for an answer, he urged his mount to make the
                                    leap, then reined aside in the snow upon the river bank until
                                    his three companions had cleared the obstruction. 
                              "What think you by this time, major," he asked
                                    the foremost, a bronzed young giant whose face was slightly
                                    marred by the marks of smallpox; "will the commandant
                                    receive us well and give us a satisfacory answer?' The
                                    major cast a glance up the hemlock ridge ahead at a little
                                    company of Indian guides, swarthy Canadians in the uniforms of
                                          troupes de la marine or colonial
                                    regulars, and English borderers in hunting-shirts convoying four
                                    or five pack-horses. Satisfied that they were out of earshot, he
                                    made answer with the deliberation of one accustomed to weigh his
                                    words:
                              "It was in order to discuss such matters privately,
                                    Charles, that I asked the three of you to drop behind the rest
                                    of the party. As for your question, the devil only knows the
                                    answer. Probably the commandant will make us fine speeches and
                                    treat us well to outward seeming, but that he will comply with
                                    our summons I do not believe. What think you,
                                    Christopher?"
                              "That we shall do well to walk softly and keep our eyes
                                           open even while asleep,
                                    sir," replied the man addressed, ducking his head over
                                    his horse's neck to avoid the low-swinging limbs of a
                                    giant beech. "I fear there are snakes in the grass.
                                    Since we left Venango I have watched Mr. LA Force and his parley voos and have seen much to make me
                                    suspicion they are trying to curry favor with our
                                    Injuns."
                              "And think you they have succeeded?" inquired the
                                    first speaker, tightening his grasp upon the long rifle that lay
                                    across the pommel of his saddle.
                              "Not with the sachems, Mr: Randolph. Half-King, Jeskakake,
                                    and White Thunder are sly old foxes, not to be trapped so
                                    easily. But I fear The Hunter is somewhat
                                    inluenced."
                              "Never you drust a Frenchman, say I!" broke in
                                    the fourth horseman, a bulky, middle-aged man, whose sword,
                                    pistols, and the cut of his mustache proclaimed him a member of
                                    the profession of arms, as clearly as did his accent show that
                                    he, or an immediate ancestor, was from the country of dykes and
                                    windmills. "Five years I fought dem and dot Maréchal
                                    Saxe in Flanders, and vereof I speaks I knows. Dey vill fight,
                                    dot I admits, as ve at Fontenoy and Laffeldt to our gost found,
                                    put, as my name is Jacob Van Braam, do not
                                    drustdem!"
                              "As they will have nothing to gain by mistreating us, I do
                                    not apprehend that we shall be in any particular
                                    danger," the major said thoughtfully. "But I
                                    do not doubt that Mr. Gist is right in thinking they will do all
                                    in their power to win over the sachems. But look sharp, all of
                                    you. We'll circumvent them if we can.
                                    'Distrust and caution are the parents of
                                    security,' says Poor Richard. Deliver our message we
                                    must and will."
                              "Caution should pe our vatchword," quoth Van
                                    Braam, sagely nodding his bullet head. "'Kom ik er vandag niet,  dan kom ik er mogen--Fair and softly goes far in a
                                    day,' says a Tutch broverb. 'Het
                                          is gekleid tegen de maan te blaafen--It is of no use
                                    to park ven you cannot pite,' says another. Put vat is
                                    demadder now?" 
                              The four horsemen had come up with the rest of the party, who had
                                    halted upon the bank of a little creek, which, swollen by
                                    melting snow and recent rains, put a temporary limit to their
                                    progress. Fifty yards to their left the stream fell into a river
                                    too wide and deep to be fordable, while on their right it was
                                    lost to view in the interminable forest, which, with its thick
                                    tangle of fallen trees, practically forbade a detour that
                                    direction. The Indian guides had stolidly drawn their tattered
                                    blankets closer about them, the officer in charge of the
                                    Canadians was chattering and gesticulating violently, and three
                                    of the borderers were impotently damning the stream with nothing
                                    more effectual than boisterous British oaths. The fourth had
                                    leaned his long rifle against a tree, had laid aside his immense
                                    and curiously carved powder-horn, and was loosening an axe that
                                    was tied on one of the pack-hoses.
                              "That's right, Currin," said the major
                                    approvingly. "Cut that leaning basswood so that it will
                                    fall across the creek, and we'll pass over as dry-shod
                                    as did the Israelites over Jordan." 
                              "Faith, sir, an' it's more than forty
                                    years we'll be after
                                    wanderin' in the wilderness if we let a little strame
                                    like that keep us," said the borderer, with a glance at
                                    the low-sinking December sun.
                              He threw off his cap of coonskin with tails attached, and the white
                                    chips were soon flying from the doomed tree. The other members
                                    of the party, with the exeption of the Indians, busied
                                    themselves removing the packs and saddles from the horses. Soon
                                    the tree crashed down across the stream. Some of the men at once
                                    set to work carrying the  baggage
                                    over the bridge thus formed; the others, walking along the tree,
                                    led the reluctant horses through the icy water, which, though
                                    not quite deep enough to force the amimals to swim, came almost
                                    to their backs.
                              "Deuce take your foot-log!" presently cried
                                    Randolph. "I'll venture I can cross without
                                    it!"
                              So saying, he remounted, and standing upon his horse's
                                    back, forced him to enter the stream. A less skillful rider
                                    would inevitably have been precipitated into the yellow flood,
                                    but Randolph had followed the fox over the hills and through the
                                    green fields and valleys of Virginia. Though for a moment he
                                    seemed about to fall, he managed to keep his balance and rode
                                    out ofthe stream in triumph.
                              "Ha, George!" he called back banteringly to the
                                    major. "I'll dare you to try
                                    that!"
                              "Charles! Charles!" said the major chidingly,
                                    "this is no time for such mad pranks! How would you,
                                    the master of Eastover, enjoy the humiliation of riding into the
                                    fort with your clothes drenched with muddy water?"
                              Randolph laughed boyishly, and tossed back his long brown hair.
                                    "'T would not be the first time they have been
                                    wet these two score days. I took the chance. Dare you do as
                                    much?"
                              The major hesitated and glanced up-stream. Of a sudden a smile
                                    overspread his face and he said confidently:
                              "I'll wager a new sword-knot that I can cross as
                                    dry as you did and more quickly."
                              "Done!" cried Randolph. "Bear witness,
                                    Van Braam."
                              The major unbuckled his sword-belt and handed it to one of the
                                    borderers. Followed by the curious eyes of the rest of the
                                    party, he walked thirty or forty yards up stream to a point
                                    where the creek was cramped between steep banks to a width of
                                    perhaps something more than twenty feet. After measuring the
                                    distance with his eye and noting that the bank on which he stood was somewhat higher than that
                                    opposite, he drew back a little way, then ran forward, rose
                                    lightly in the air, and alighted safely on the other bank.
                              "Ugh, big jumpl" grunted the Indians in
                                    chorus.
                              "Sacrebleu!" exclaimed the
                                    Fench officer.
                              "Mine Cott!" cried the Dutchman.
                              "The sword-knot is yours," said Randolph,
                                    crestfallen. "By the Lord Harry, I had forgotten that
                                    you can outjump any man in Viginia!"
                              The party were at work reloading the pack-horses when a sound of
                                    heavy baying burst forth in the dense forest further up the
                                    creek. 
                              "Hark!" cried the major, his gray eyes sparkling.
                                    "Houndsl They've started a deer."
                              "He's coming this way," said Randolph,
                                    after listening a few moments. "He's making
                                    for the river."
                              "Shoot him if you can, men!" the major exclaimed.
                                    "We'll carry him to the fort as a
                                    present."
                              All who had rifles ran hastily to pick them up from where they had
                                    deposited them before beginning the repacking. But before any
                                    one except the young borderer who had felled the tree was in
                                    readiness, there was a glimpse among the trees of spreading
                                    horns, slender limbs, and a shapely grayish brown body; almost
                                    with the speed of a shaft of light a magnificent buck bounded
                                    across the narrow trail ahead. The animal was visible only for
                                    an instant; but, throwing his rifle to his shoulder, the
                                    borderer, seemingly without taking aim, pulled the trigger.
                              "Down! by all that's wonderful!" the
                                    major cried.
                              "A shrewd shot indeed!" exclaimed Randolph
                                    delightedly, and ran to the prostrate buck. "See,
                                    Barnaby, you hit him right behind the foreleg."
                              "Faith, an' 't was an
                                    accident," said the borderer, though a look of
                                    satisfacion flitted across his open face.
                              
                              "Of the sort that seem often to happen when you are
                                    shooting," said the major drily. "But throw
                                    the buck across one of the horses. We must be
                                    going."
                              Soon the whole party were once more on the way, with the horsemen
                                    this time in the lead. After going a mile or so, Randolph, who
                                    was a little in advance of his companions, drew rein upon the
                                    river bank, and, pointing through an opening among the trees,
                                    exclaimed exultantly:
                              "No forest camp for us tonightl Yonder is the
                                    fort."
                              He spoke truth. A little distance up-stream, on a tongue of land
                                    formed by the main river and a small tributary, stood a wooden
                                    structure square in shape and formed of four log buildings that
                                    served as bastions, with the intervening spaces closed by
                                    palisades perhaps twelve feet in height and sharpened at the
                                    top. The palisades and bastions were loopholed for musketry,
                                    while from the bastions peered the black muzzles of a number of
                                    small cannon. Outside the palisades stood two long barracks
                                    built of logs fresh from the axe, with roofs of bark and riven
                                    boards and with great chimneys of rough stones and clay. Not far
                                    from these buildings were a number of Indian wigwams, from holes
                                    in the tops of which little wreaths of smoke were ascending.
                                    Drawn up on the strand of the main stream were a number of
                                    bateaux and perhaps two hundred birch or elm-bark canoes. Within
                                    the fort appeared the roofs of three or four low cabins. Above
                                    the most considerable of these, from a staff fashioned from a
                                    straight and slender sapling, fluttered a broad white banner on
                                    whose folds was embroidered the fleur-de-lis of France.
                              The sun's departing rays had just kissed the lag for the
                                    last time when our party--Indians, Frenchmen, Dutchman and
                                    Englishmen--gathered on the bank of the stream that separated
                                    them from the fort.
                              "Holà! bateaux! ferry us
                                    across!" the French officer shouted to a little group of soldiers and Indians who had
                                    collected on the opposite bank.
                              At the call a couple of officers issued from the stockade and
                                    hurried down to the river. Three large bateaux were launched,
                                    and in few minutes the whole party were standing in the sodden
                                    snow outside the gateway. 
                              "We were expecting you, messieurs; we heard of your
                                    arrival at Venango," said an officer, who introduced
                                    himself as Lieutenant Repentigny, the second in command. He
                                    spoke no English, but the Dutchman, Van Braam, acted as
                                    interpreter. "We will entertain you as well as our
                                    scanty means will permit. Your gentilhommes
                                          sauvages will occupy a wigwam set apart for them;
                                    your men will have a place in the barracks; and to you,
                                    gentlemen, we beg to offer one of the cabins in the fortress. I
                                    have seen more elegant apartments in Paris and Versailles and
                                    even in Quebec, but it is the best we have to offer, and we dare
                                    to hope you will consider only the spirit of our
                                    hospitality."
                              Ten minutes later Van Brasm, Gist, the major, and Randolph were in
                                    the cabin allotted to them. Presently food and wine were brought
                                    by two swarthy Canadians. Having done justice to the repast, the
                                    travelers sat for a time before a grateful blaze in the
                                    fireplace, and then, worn out by the fatigues of a long
                                    day's ride, retired to couches of evergreen boughs
                                    covered with bearskins and blankets.
                              After breakfast next morning, Lieutenant Repentigny appeared and
                                    announced that the commandant was ready to receive them. The
                                    major thereupon took some documents from his saddle-bags, and
                                    the four followed the lieutenant to the cabin over which floated
                                    the banner. The room they were ushered into was a large one,
                                    with rough log wells and a floor of hewed puncheons, whose
                                    ugliness was relieved by a bearskin or two. Most of the furniture had evidently been
                                    manufactured on the spot, but there were a number of books on a
                                    shelf near the fireplace and other articles from the outside
                                    world. Everything was arranged with a taste that suggested the
                                    touch of a women's hand, while an inner door that was
                                    half open when the visitors entered gave a glimpse into a more
                                    luxuriously furnished apartment beyond.
                              A middle-aged man, of distinguished appearance, who wore upon his
                                    breast the eight-pointed cross of a chevalier of the military
                                    order of St. Louis, received them.
                              "You are welcome, gentlemen," he said
                                    courteously, in good English. "Be seated, I beg of you.
                                    Have you been long on the way?"
                              "Forty-one days, Your Exellency," answered the
                                    young major.
                              "And how long was the journey, may I ask?"
                              "Two hundred leagues."
                              "Then it must be important business that has brought you
                                    so far in such a season."
                              "It is, sir. I am the bearer of a letter from his
                                    Exellency Robert Dinwiddie, Governor of his Britannic
                                    Majesty's province of Virginia. Here is the letter; and
                                    here, also, I beg to offer my own commission."
                              The chevalier did not take the documents that were held out to him.
                                    "Keep them yet a little longer, if you please, sir.
                                    Before receiving them I wish to await the arrival of Captain
                                    Reparti, who commands at our next fort of Presqu'isle.
                                    He has been sent for, and is expected at any hour."
                              The chevalier then conversed pleasantly with his visitors about
                                    their journey and complimented them upon their hardihood.
                                    Presently Van Braam remarked:
                              "I haf de honor had, Captain de Saint-Pierre, of seeing
                                    you pefore."
                              
                              "Where was that?" the chevalier inquired with
                                    interest.
                              "You vere one of de gentlemens dot advanced and redurned
                                    de salute of our officers in de charge at Fontenoy. Lader you
                                    led one of de regiments dot trove us pack."
                              "That is true."
                              "It was like dis," Van Brawn continued, for the
                                    benefit of his companions. "Ve had for some dime fought
                                    vidout result, ven de Tuke of Cumberland tecided to charge de
                                    French cender vid his infantry. As ve mofed forvard de cannon
                                    palls dey cut great holes in our ranks, put ve was not to pe
                                    tenied. At last ve vere up close, face to face. De firing
                                    stopped. Our offiers dook of deir chapeaus and saluted. Count
                                    Chabannes, de Tuke of Biron, and de Chevalier de Saint-Pierre
                                    here mofed forvard and redumed it. 'Gentlemens of de
                                    French guard, fire!' exclaimed Sir Charles Hay.
                                    'Fire yourselves, gentlemens of England,'
                                    replied Count d'Auteroche; 've nefer fire
                                    fist!' At dot ve poured in a folley vich stretched out
                                    hundredsof de gallant regiment of de king's household.
                                    Ve pushed on and on. I could see Maréchal Saxe in his osier
                                    litter, for he was sick vell-nigh unto teath and must pe apout
                                    carried; also King Louis and de Tauphin. Had ve py cavalry peen
                                    supported, de tay vould have peen our own; put ve vere not. New
                                    patteries vere against us blanted; dot tamned Irish prigade fell
                                    upon us; ve vere addacked on efery side. At last ve vere pack
                                    trifen."
                              "Mon Dieu, but it was a gallant charge,
                                    nevertheless!" cried the chevalier, his eyes flashing
                                    at the remembrance. "Only the coolnessf Maréchal Saxe
                                    and the valor of Count Lally and his Irishmen saved us. There
                                    were countless brave deeds performed that day. One incident in
                                    particular stands out in my memory. The colors of one of the
                                    Dutch regiments had been captured by three of my grenadiers,
                                    when an oficer ran back alone, cut down the grenadier who had the trophy, held the other two
                                    at bay, and retired with colors in the midst of an infernal
                                    fire. I have never been able to learn the officer's
                                    name. Do you know it?"
                              "He was an obscure man," said Van Braam
                                    carelessly. "Hafing no infuence and some enemies, he
                                    was nefer revarded.for de feat"
                              "What was his name?" persisted the chevalier.
                              The Dutchman shifted uneasily in his seat; his ruddy face grew
                                    ruddier. Finally he reluctantly pronounced the words:
                                    "Van Braam."
                              "Ciel!" cried the chevalier,
                                    springing to his feet and offering the Dutchman his had.
                                    "So it was youl I congratulate you upon the finest deed
                                    I have ever seen, and I have been in fifteen
                                    battlesl"
                              The Dutchman's companions were quite as much surprised as
                                    was the Frenchman. "How does it happen that you hve
                                    never told me bout this?" Randolph demanded, in an
                                    aggrieved tone.
                              Van Braam shook his head deprecatingly. "Ve haf in Tutch a
                                    broverb vich says: 'Eigenlob
                                    stinkt;' dot is, Self-braise is no
                                    recommendation,'" he answered.
                              The ice being thus broken, the two old soldiers proceeded to fight
                                    their battles over good-humoredly, and the listeners were really
                                    sorry when their anecdotes were brought to an end by the arrival
                                    of Captain Reparti.
                              The newcomer was a veritable cyclops in size, and the resemblance
                                    was rendered all the more striking by the fact that he had lost
                                    his left eye. His hair was very coarse and black; and this
                                    peculiarity, joined with the shape of his head and face, roused
                                    a suspicion that perhaps a strain of aboriginal blood ran in his
                                    veins. His hunting-shirt of deerskin was embroidered with quills
                                    of the Canadian porcupine; his leggings were gayly fringed; his
                                    factwere shod with moccasins; his fingers were ornamented with
                                    numerous costly rings; and a heavy
                                    gold chain dangled from his belt. He spoke English, but in a
                                    broken manner, and in his surly greeting there was nothing of
                                    the quiet courtesy that marked the chevalier. He was attended by
                                    a short and squat Indian warrior, whose face, disfigured with
                                    frightful scars and streaked with black and vermilion paint,
                                    bore a singularly savage and malevolent expression.
                              The letter was again tendered and this time accepted. Saint-Pierre
                                    and Reparti withdrew to another room to study the docment at
                                    leisure. They broke the seal; and as they perused the letter
                                    they read "all unconsciously" the full name of
                                    the man who had presented it-- Major George Washington,
                                    adjutant-general of the Virginia militia.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER II
                              THE DEFIANCE
                              THE letter was a politely worded missive which
                                    nevertheless conveyed a distinct menace. It expressed surprise
                                    that the troops of the King of France had presumed to cross the
                                    Great Lakes and to build forts in the Ohio region which was
                                    "so notoriously known to be the Property of the Crown
                                    of Great Britain. I must desire you to acquaint me by whose
                                    Authority you have lately marched from Canada with an armed
                                    Force and invaded the King of Great Britain's
                                    Territories. It becomes my Duty to require your peaceable
                                    Departure; and that you would forbear prosecuting a Purpose so
                                    interruptive of the Harmony and good Understanding which His
                                    Majesty is desirous to continue and cultivate with the Most
                                    Christian King "
                              "Nom de Dieul" exclaimed
                                    Captain Reparti, springing to his feet. "What reply
                                    shall we give to such insolent presumption!"
                              "Softly! softly!" counseled the chevalier.
                                    "Nothing will be lost by our keeping up the appearance
                                    of friendship. We are in possession, and a soothing answer is
                                    less likely to provoke attack."
                              "Let les Anglais keep to their side of
                                    the mountains!" Reparti snarled, with unabated
                                    violence. "La Belle Rivière is a French stream. Their
                                    traders spoil the beaver trade. A few years ago a castor could be bought for a few charges of powder.
                                    Look at the price we have to pay now! Every long-legged coquin who ventures
                                    in should be given over to our Indians. We have already set a
                                    good example at Pickawillany."
                              For some time they argued thus about what course to pursue, Reparti
                                    demanding that an immediate and defiant answer be returned,
                                    SaintPierre urging the desirability of diplomacy and courtesy.
                                    At length the younger man changed his attitude.
                              "Eh bien," he said,
                                    "let us consider the matter for two days. Perhaps then
                                    we can agree."
                              Saint-Pierre readily acquiesced, and the two returned to the
                                    messengers.
                              "Messieurs," said the chevalier, "the
                                    problem you have brought us is a hard one, and we wish a day or
                                    two to consider it. In the meantime every care shall be taken
                                    for your comfort; and, that we may become better aquainted, I
                                    beg that you will do me the honor of dining with me this
                                    evening."
                              The envoys accepted with thanks for his kindness. A few minutes
                                    later they took their leave and returned to their cabin.
                              "I likes dot Chevalier de Saint-Pierre," quoth
                                    Van Braam, when they were once more seated before the fire
                                    place. "But I sees not, major, vy you trags me six
                                    hundred miles dis vilderness drough inderbreter to act. His
                                    English is goot-petter dan mine French, and almost so goot as
                                    mine English, vich you all know is berfection not far
                                    from."
                              "Surely a courtly and polished gentlemen,"
                                    Randolph agreed, smiling at Van Braam's conceit,
                                    "one of the kind we read about in romances. But I like
                                    not the other captain. 'Fore God, if I misread him not,
                                    I would trust myself in the hands of a savage ere I would in
                                    his."
                              "By heaven, you do not wrong himl" exclaimed
                                    Gist. "In my trading and
                                    exploring trips I have heard many stories of his cruelty and
                                    ferocity. But he is a bold man, and has wonderful influence
                                    among the Injuns. 'T is said that he is himself a
                                    quarter-blood Ottawa, and that he has had a whole succession of
                                    squaw mistresses."
                              "I should think that would ruin his hold over the
                                    Indians," Randolph interjected.
                              The trader lit his pipe with a coal from the fireplace.
                                    "Not at all," he said reflectively.
                                    "Injuns like a man who can drink, shout, paint his
                                    face, and dance with the best of them, and who is not ashamed to
                                    mingle his blood with theirs. We English, save the lowest
                                    riffraff of the border, look down upon the savage and want
                                    little to do with him except in the way of trade."
                              "How about Colonel Johnson of Mount Johnson?"
                                    objected Randolph. "He has great influence among the
                                    Six Nations, and I have heard that the daughter of a chief
                                    presides over his household."
                              "Johnson is an Irishman," said the trader, with
                                    the air of one who had settled the question at issue.
                                    "He handles the Injuns much as do the French. As for
                                    Reparti, he is a prime fighter, though a treacherous one. No one
                                    performed more exploits in the last war. He has roamed far
                                    beyond the region of the Upper Lakes. 'T is said there
                                    is hardly a tribe he has not visited. He can beat the hardiest
                                    warrior in anything that calls for strength or skill. Bras-de-fer, or Iron Arm, is the name they
                                    call him. 'T is said he once killed full-grown bear
                                    with no weapon but a club, and that it was then he lost his eye.
                                    The Ottawa who came with him is a big chief among his people --
                                          Le Chat, or The Cat, he is called. He
                                    follows Reparti about like a dog. They are the devil's
                                    brood, that is the bond of union, I suppose. Both hate the
                                    English as I do a rattlesnake. Reparti knows our traders cut
                                    into the proits of the fur trade,
                                    in which he has a hand. He is supposed to act as the
                                    king's agent. But he is thick with the governor-general
                                    and the intendant, and really manages the business for his own
                                    advantage. He divides his profits with them; they wink at his
                                    lawlessness; and only the king, who is far away, is the loser.
                                    Until lately his gains have been very great. 'T is said
                                    he is one of the richest men in all New France. I feel pretty
                                    sure that he had a hand in stirring up the Injure to murder our
                                    traders at Pickawillany and other places. Doubtless he would be
                                    pleased if he could arrange some mishap for us."
                              "I think we can trust the chevalier to hold him in
                                    check," said Washington, who had been listening
                                    attentively.
                              "Eh, well, what matters a little risk when the stake is so
                                    large?" asked Gist soberly. "Only one who has
                                    journeyed far into it can have a notion of the vast resources of
                                    this virgin region. For hundreds of leagues it stretches away --
                                    fine level land, well watered, and rich beyond the dream of
                                    anything the world has known. 'T is a second Land of
                                    Canaan--only a hundred times larger. The race which masters it
                                    will be the Chosen People of the future."
                              "If we could come out with whole skins and our hair on I
                                    would n't mind a bit of a confict," said
                                    Randolph. "You know, George, you promised me some
                                    adventuresl But our journey has been more productive of
                                    hardships than romance."
                              "Patience! patience! Charles!" the major retuned.
                                    "Our journey is but half over. Many strange things may
                                    yet befall ere we see again the old town of Williamsburg. But I
                                    freely confess that the tamer the return journey the greater my
                                    satisfaction."
                              "Mine Cott, yes!" the Dutchman said heartily.
                                    "A whole skin it vas petter dan a holey vone, I bromise
                                    you!"
                              Late in the afternoon, after a visit to their men and guides outside the fort, they began to
                                    make ready for the chevalier's dinner.
                               "Egad!" exclaimed Randolph, ruefully surveying
                                    the contents of his saddlebags, "'t is not
                                    much primping and preening I can indulge in."
                               "It would seem that a gentleman who has a sheet of
                                    foolscap from the College of William and Mary ought to be
                                    capable of atoning for his lack of fine raiment by the
                                    brilliancy of his conversation," suggested the
                                    major.
                              "Tut, tut, George! But preserve us! What is the matter
                                    with Van Braam! Is it apoplexy?"
                              All looked at the Dutchman, who had suddenly turned as red as a
                                    turkey cock and was struggling for breath.
                              "De shirt! de shirt!" he gasped. "Bull
                                    me off de shirt! I vas near sdrangle!"
                              Randolph seized the offending garment, and by dint of hard tugging
                                    managed to strip it from the Dutchman's bulky form.
                              Van Braam took several long breaths and sat down limply in a hair.
                                    "I vas vash it at Venango," he explained
                                    presently. "It vas shrink. I must vear de tirty vone,
                                    mine Cott!"
                              Even the ordinarily impassive face of the major relaxed into a
                                    smile.
                              An hour later they appeared at the commandant's door and
                                    were ushered into the same room in which they had delivered
                                    their message that morning. During their absence it had
                                    undergone a remarkable transformation. The rough puncheon floor
                                    was almost hidden from sight by bearskins; the bare ugliness of
                                    the rude walls was pleasantly relieved with evergreen boughs in
                                    which were interwoven branches covered with red berries; and in
                                    the center of the room stood a table overspread with a white
                                    cloth and bearing a number of pieces of heavy silver and considerable china, with here and
                                    there cruder vessels of birch bark and wood. Ropes off fir and
                                    hemlock extended from corner to corner of the room, being caught
                                    up to the ceiling at the center, thus forming a sort of canopy.
                                    Light was afforded by wax candles in two silver candlesticks
                                    that stood on the table. The whole effect was so pleasing that
                                    the admiring guests almost forgot they were hundreds of miles
                                    from the civilized world and in the very heart of a savage
                                    wilderness.
                              Besides the chevalier, the only occupants of the room were an old
                                    French serving woman and a withered Indian squaw, who were
                                    busying themselves about the table; but scarcely were the first
                                    greetings over when an inner door opened, and the person who was
                                    doubtless the principal agent in the transformation
                                    appeared.
                              "My daughter Alfrede," said the chevalier with
                                    accents of pride.
                              Each of the guests in turn bent over the slim hand which the girl
                                    held out to him.
                              "Welcome to our wilderness lodge, gentlemen," she
                                    said in perfect English.
                              "Such kindnes is almost enough to make us ashamed of our
                                    mission," said Randolph.
                              "Did you ever hear of a Frenchman being aught but
                                    courteous--even to an enemy?" she made answer, and
                                    there was a laughing challenge in her dark eyes.
                              Before Randolph could make a suitable reply, Lieutenant Repentigny
                                    and Captain Reparti arrived. The lieutenant greeted all present
                                    with perfect courtesy; but the giant captain, who now wore the
                                    full uniform of an officer of colonial regulars, which became
                                    him less than his wilder garb of the morning, merely cast a
                                    malevolent glance out of his single eye at the envoys, then
                                    turned to Mademoiselle Alfrede.
                              
                              "Mademoiselle grows more charming each day," he
                                    said, with an exaggerated bow and a wolfish look that gave
                                    Randolph a strangely uncomfortable feeling. "She
                                    is--"
                              "Captain Reparti, where have you left your
                                    manners?" demanded the girl sharply in French.
                               "Ah, pardon! messieurs, pardon! I had not
                                    observe!" he said quickly, and vouchsafed a surly
                                    greeting, which they acknowledged somewhat stiffly.
                              "I should have said 'true
                                    Frenchman' a moment ago," the girl whispered
                                    in an aside to Randolph.
                              The meal was now announced, and Randolph and Van Braam found
                                    themselves honored with places beside Mademoiselle Alfrede,
                                    Major Washington and Captain Reparti being seated next the
                                    chevalier. The worthy Dutchman seemed overjoyed at his good
                                    fortune, though Randolph suspected from certain covert glances
                                    that he was regretting the clean shirt he had been unable to
                                    wear, and was secretly reproaching himself for not having made a
                                    greater effort to keep it on. Fortunately the one he wore was of
                                    dark material; only a little was visible above his buff coat;
                                    and some allowance could be made for a man who had traveled so
                                    far through the wilderness. Besides, the Dutchman's
                                    good humor and his naive sincerity would have suffied to
                                    overcome the prejudices of one inclined to be more critical than
                                    mademoiselle.
                              "Ve was such a sight not expecting,
                                    mademoiselle," said he, in his best manner, "
                                    as a pit of Baradise in such a vilderness vid a Lily of France
                                    plooming derein. You was toubt de goot fairy to whom ve all dis
                                    bleasure owe."
                              The girl was sincerely pleased. "Do not bestow too much of
                                    the credit upon me," she said, laughing. "I
                                    fear that my good old bonn, Jeanne, and the
                                    Indian woman, Marie, did most of the work. However, I am happy
                                    if our efforts are appreciated."
                              
                              "They are indeed!" Randolph asserted, with
                                    profound conviction. "When one has for weeks eaten
                                    little but burnt venison, parched corn, and ash-ckes, with
                                    naught but a log for atable, this is as near to heaven as he
                                    should ever wish to be."
                              The conversation ran on thus for some minutes, Van Braam declaring
                                    again and again that never was there such delightful
                                    hospitality, Randolph chiming in occasionally but devoting his
                                    time chiefly to watching the charming grace with which the girl
                                    attended to the various duties that fell to her as hostess. He
                                    also observed that her gown, which was evidently the work of no
                                    provincial modiste, fitted her slender form to perfection, that
                                    she had a profusion of dark hair, dancing brown eyes, and a
                                    tempting mouth.
                              "I am surprised, Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre, that you
                                    speak such admirable English," Randolph ventured, when
                                    thereas lull in the convesation.
                              "As goot as vat I mineself speaks," said Van
                                    Braam.
                              A gleam of amusement came into the girl's face; she nodded
                                    her acknowledgments to Van Braam.
                              "'T is in no way surprising when you know the
                                    facts," she said. "I am not all French. My
                                    mother was Scotch--the daughter of what some English call a
                                    Jacobite. After the failure of the Earl of Mar's
                                    rising, my grandfather took refuge in France and was never
                                    reconciled to the House of Hanover. My mother taught me English;
                                    and, besides, until two years ago, the chevalier, my father, was
                                    attached to our embassy in London, and, of course, I resided
                                    with him there."
                              "You must find the wilds of America very dull after
                                    Versailles and St. James's," said
                                    Randolph.
                              "I do not reret the change," shesaid sincerely.
                                    "There is much at both courts that I dislike. I prefer
                                    a log hut in the distant recesses
                                    of Nouvelle-France to the life most women lead at
                                    court."
                              Randolph thought of the fat German Duchess of Yarmouth who was the
                                    acknowledged mistress of his own sovereign, and of the more
                                    charming Madame de Pompadour who ruled Louis, strangely called
                                          Le Bien Aimé. He recalled the stories he
                                    had heard of orgies in the Parc-au-Cerfs. The noxious air of
                                    courts was not the place for this pure-petaled flower.
                              "However, we had no choice," the girl continued
                                    frankly. "My father disdained to conciliate the person
                                    who dispenses all favors. He was recalled from London and
                                    practically banished from France. But we are happy here. There
                                    is much that is strange and wonderful! I love the wild woods,
                                    the streams, the birds, the bees, the flowers! I revel in them.
                                    I think I almost like the Indians too. They remind me of the old
                                    Romans--so stoical, so proud. At least they are what they are.
                                    Do you see that rug?" She pointed to a great bearskin
                                    that lay beside Randolph's chair.
                              "Good heavens, it must have belonged to the great-
                                    grandfather of all the bears!" commented the young
                                    Virginian.
                              "My father and I have pak of hounds," she
                                    continued by way of explanation. "Many a joyous day
                                    have we spent in the woods with them! These pelts are all
                                    trophies of our hunts. One day the owner of that one caught
                                    Franchette, my favorite, in his great paws. If you were to look
                                    at the skin more closely, you would find a bullet hole between
                                    the eyes."
                              "And who fired the bullet?" Randolph asked.
                              "Mademoiselle herself!" cried the chevalier, who
                                    had istened to the story. "Franchette was
                                    saved."
                              "Bravo, a new-world Diana!" exclaimed Randolph,
                                          with an enthusiasm that
                                    brought the blushes to her face.
                              "Ah, yes, I enjoy the wilderness," the girl
                                    continued, "though, hélas, I shudder
                                    sometimes when I think of the horrors a war might bring. Only
                                    last night I dreamed of such a war. I thought I saw the glare of
                                    burning houses and heard the cries of women and little children.
                                    Then I saw a train of weeping captives guarded by painted
                                    savages led by my own countrymen. Oh, bon Dieu! bon
                                          Dieu! it was horrible! horrible! Even now I can
                                    scarcee convince myself that it was not something I shall live
                                    to see."
                              "If you love Nature so much, I think you would like our
                                    life in Virginia," said Randolph, anxious to turn her
                                    thoughts from so painful a subject. "There are no real
                                    towns. Every one lives in the country. The weather is pleasant,
                                    and much of one's time is spent out of doors. There are
                                    horses and hounds, fox-hunting and much visiting. Even the
                                    slaves are contented and happy. At least it is a healthy life. I
                                    know no other I could prefer."
                              "Growers of tabac, is it not
                                    so?" interposed Reparti, with half-veiled
                                    insolence.
                              "Owners of great plantations, gentlemen to the manor born,
                                    if you please, Captain Reparti!" said the girl, with a
                                    haughty look at the captain. "Oh, I have heard of
                                    Virginia life, Mr.Randolph. 'T is delightful, I doubt
                                    not. Tell me more of it"
                              " With youthful enthusiasm Randolph responded. His subject
                                    was an inspiring one, for who has not admired the life of the
                                    Old Dominion, in which was then developing that generation of
                                    statesmen unsurpassed in the history of the race? The speaker
                                    was young and handsome, with that freshness of spirit which
                                    always exercises a powerful fascination even over those who by
                                    reason of age and experience have seen something of the
                                    emptiness of life and have lost
                                    their own illusions. Naturally a good talker with a pleasant
                                    voice, he was on this occasion inspired to outdo himself; with
                                    no apparent effort he managed to throw about the life he
                                    described the glamour of romance, and several times touched
                                    those higher chords of feeling which awake a response in the
                                    breasts of others. The girl listened with unaffected and even
                                    absorbed interest; conversation at the other end of the table
                                    slackened, then ceased altogether. Even Reparti lent a reluctant
                                    ear.
                              Of them all, none hearkened with greater content than Van Braam.
                                    The worthy Dutchman sat nodding an admiring and almost paternal
                                    approval of his young friend's effort, while at the
                                    same time he did not neglect the appetizing viands before him.
                                    By this time he was quite content with his first decision
                                    regarding the shirt, and was, if the truth must be told, happy
                                    that he had worn the loose instead of the tight garment. But
                                    there came a time when even he had reached the limits of his
                                    capacity, and this time was almost coincident with the
                                    conclusion of Randolph's description. Observing that
                                    the guests had finished, mademoiselle rose after a little
                                    interval, and the gentlemen rose with her.
                              At the door of the inner apartment she paused and turned to them, a
                                    dainty figure, charmingly outlined against the light beyond.
                              "Good night, messieurs," she said, with a
                                    courtesy so inclusive that each felt he had a part in it.
                              "Methinks, Captain de Saint-Pierre, that the room is
                                    darker than it was," said Washington, when the
                                    gentlemen were seated again.
                              The chevaliers face kindled. "Aye," said he,
                                    "she is one who brings light into dark
                                    places." The guests now raised their glasses to their
                                    host, and, with thanks for their
                                    courtesy, he rose, and, lifting his glass of Burgundy with
                                    grace, said: "Messieurs, I give you a toast which I
                                    trust each will drink in all sincerity. Our sovereigns, the
                                    Kings of France and England--may they and their faithful
                                    subjects forever abide in honorable peace, amity, and
                                    friendship!"
                              All drank the toast standing and reversed their glasses with a low
                                    cheer, save only Reparti, who merely raised the liquor to his
                                    lips and set it down untasted, mumbling something to
                                    himself.
                              The omission passed without remark, though not without notice.
                                    Other toasts were given and drunk; and each man partook as he
                                    chose of the wine and brandy, of which there was abundance in
                                    sundry stout bottles. Each drank according to his taste and
                                    temperament: the major, Randolph, and Gist somewhat sparingly of
                                    the wine; the lieutenant and the chevalier more generously of
                                    the same beverage, as became men accustomed to its use since
                                    early childhood; Van Braam used both drinks indifferently; while
                                    Reparti tossed off glass after glass of brandy.
                              It was not long before the giant's single eye began to
                                    glitter more truculently; and, despite the chevalier's
                                    efforts to prevent, he turned the conversation to the subject of
                                    the visitors' mission.
                              "Les Anglais think they will this great
                                    valley possess, n'est-ce pas
                                    vrai?" he said thickly, then paused and glanced
                                    challengingly at the envoys, who sat discreetly silent.
                              "Mais nevaire! messieurs, nevaire.
                                    'T is the possession of the Most Christian King, whom
                                    may the saints preserve! No heretics may enter in without his
                                    most gracious permission. It was discover' and
                                    explore' by Père Marquette, Joliet, and, above all, by
                                    that bold warrior le Sieur de la Salle, and confirm' by
                                    solemn grant of his Holiness the Pope. You are too late,
                                    messieursl Four years ago  the
                                    Chevalier Céleron de Bienville pass' down La Belle
                                    Rivière taking possession and burying leaden plates as the token
                                    of our sovereignty.
                              "We hol' the valley! This is why you see our
                                    forts. Two summers more and a chain of them will stretch from
                                    the pine forests of the north to the cane brakes of La Belle
                                    Louisiane. You will be hem' between the mountains and
                                    the sea, messieurs. And suppose you care to contes' the
                                    question with us. You are the more numerous, mais,
                                          bah! You are too slow! We are there and gone again
                                    before you have stir. Non! non! the
                                    fleur-de-lis shall ever float over these hills, rivers, and
                                    flowery plains. Nouvelle-France shall be the faires'
                                    jewel in the cmown of our king. Voilà
                                    tout."
                              The envoys listened with heightened color but in silence. Once the
                                    major seemed about to speak, but controlled the impulse. When
                                    the Canadian finished, however, Randolph, younger than the
                                    others, and with an aversion toward the speaker which perhaps
                                    the others did not feel, leaned for- ward and, fixing a level
                                    glance upon Reparti, said:
                              " We thank you, sir, for what you have told us.
                                    'T is exactly what we came so far to
                                    learn!"
                              "It is to you welcome," returned the Canadian,
                                    with a shrug. "Listen, garçon. Mon ami here," indicating the
                                    chevalier, "believes in peace. He hope' that
                                    all may be arrange' without the clash of arms. I think
                                    not so, nor do I desire it. Nothing more please' my
                                    sight than the scalp of a dead Englishman, unless it be a living
                                    one as he dance about the stake. If you be conten'
                                    remain in your petit strip beyond the
                                    mountains, it shall be peace. But if you come again, your scalps
                                    shall swing in the smoke of the wigwams; your skulls be the
                                    playrthings of wolves and bears. Yes, and we will sen'
                                    to your ver' homes bands of hair-dressers of whose work
                                    you shall not have the reason to complain! Even your traders
                                    shall not enter. Already some have
                                    been sen' to Quebec and some to France; others--But let
                                    me tell you a story, garçon!
                              "Las' year there live at Pickawillany on the
                                    Rivière Ia Roche a chieftain whom we call' La
                                    Demoiselle. He hearken' not to the words of his
                                    Canadian father, Onontio, but incline' his ear to the
                                    traders of your nation, receive' them, allow'
                                    them build a post in his village. Word come from France this
                                    mus' not be, this nes' mus' be
                                    destroy'. Charles Langlade and another whom we need not
                                    name, they strike the war-post at Michilimackinac. Our brothers,
                                    the Ottawas and Ojibwas, take up the hatchet. Two
                                    hunder' and feefty strong we come down the Lac des
                                    Hurons in our birch canoes, pass through the Détroit, paddle up
                                    the Rivière des Miamis, cross the portage, and one June morning
                                    fall upon the village of La Demoiselle. The frighten'
                                    squaws they flee from the corn fields like deer before the
                                    wolves; some escape, but many are carry to wigwams around the
                                    Upper Lakes. Fourteen warriors were kill', among them
                                    La Demoiselle. Five traders fall into our han's. One
                                    was injure'. He was stab' and scalp'
                                    by an Ottawa. The rest were strip' of their goods and
                                    sen' to Quebec. La Demoiselle had shown grand courage.
                                          Les gentilhommes sauvages put him into
                                    their kettles, boil', and ate of him. He seem tough to
                                    me, but they swear he make them wax in the strength and the
                                    courage. Thus was the nes' wipe' out as in
                                    winter one destroy' a den of serpents à
                                          sonettes. What think you of the exploit, garçon? Was it not more glorious than to make the
                                    pretty speech to a girl as you were now?"
                              The sneering tone was more than Randolph could bear. Disregarding
                                    the major's warning glances, he said slowly and
                                    distinctly:
                              "'Fore God! it was a cruel and wicked deed, more
                                    worthy of fiends from hell than of true Frenchmen!"
                              
                              "Nom de Dieu!" the Frenchman
                                    hissed, springing to his feet. "Do you preten'
                                    to pass the judgment on my acts?"
                              Randolph's glance did not waver. "You asked my
                                    opinion. I gave it; I will abide by it. None but a bushranger
                                    would have been guilty of such an act."
                              The captain was not a pleasant sight to see. His single eye,
                                    bloodshot with rage and brandy, glittered like that of a
                                    rattlesnake about to strike. Half intoxicated and unaccustomed
                                    to opposition, he did not belie the reputation that had won for
                                    him the epithet of "I'Enragé"--the Madman.
                              "No one ever so spoke to Hertel Reparti and
                                    live!" he shrieked. Whipping out his sword, he ran,
                                    despite the cries of the chevalier, around the table at
                                    Randolph, who, not having anticipated an attack, was in no
                                    position for defense. The Virginian would have been wholly at
                                    the madman's mercy had it not been that in
                                    Reparti's path was one who, accustomed to the sight of
                                    brawls, had partly read the giant's purpose. In spite
                                    of his stoutness, Van Braam was a skillful swordsman; since
                                    quitting the army he had been a fencing mster. With a quickness
                                    that was surprising, he sprang up, drawing his weapon as he did
                                    so, and, just as Reparti made a vicious pass, struck up the
                                    blade.
                              "Out of my way, Dutch pig!" Reparti shrieked.
                              "Goot heafens!" roared Van Braam, "dot
                                    was a felon's plow! Had it gone home, I vould haf you
                                    like a sausage sblit!"
                              By this time the chevalier was on the scene. "Put up your
                                    sword, Captain Reparti," he thundered, "or, by
                                    the mass, I will have the guards disarm you! And do you, good
                                    gentlemen, compose yourselves and sit down once more. The
                                    captain does not know what he is about. I had no thought that the conversation
                                    would come to this, else I would have stopped it long
                                    ago."
                              Reparti's rage had by this time somewhat spent itself; his
                                    head was clearer. Slowly he slid his sword back into its
                                    scabbard. Randolph, who had drawn his own weapon, and Van Braam,
                                    who was the picture of righteous indignation and, for all his
                                    good nature, looked as though he would have liked a conflict,
                                    did likewise.
                              "At some other time and in some more fitting place, garçon, perhaps I shall have the honor of
                                    meet' you with none to stand between," the
                                    giant said menacingly.
                              "The Randolphs have never feared man nor devil
                                    yet," was the ready answer. "May God fogive me
                                    if when that time comes I do not rid the world of such a
                                    ruffan."
                              "'Leege vaten klinken het
                                          luidst'--Empty casks de greatest noise
                                    make!" quoth Van Braam. "I vill dot poy
                                    against you venture, an' vere you de foul fiend
                                    Peelzepub himself! I did him drain. To guard, to drust, or to
                                    gif de edge I knows no petter."
                              "To all of you, messieurs les
                                    Anglais," said Reparti, ignoring
                                    Randolph's and Van Braam's words,
                                    "what I say is true. The written answer may be politely
                                    word', but it mean war! war! Already the council fires
                                    have been light'. Already the savages are
                                    accept' the black wampum belts. Already the chichikoue is heard from village to village;
                                    and, squat' in their wigwams, the medicine men are
                                    dream' of English prisoners and English scalps. Peace
                                    or war--you may choose. But if you cross the mountains again, it
                                    is war. Voilà tout!"
                              Since the quarrel began Major Washingon had remained silent, though
                                    at the critical moment he strode forward intent to interfere.
                                    But now he seemed to feel that the Frenchman's words
                                    required an answer.
                              "It grives me tohethis talk of war, he said, and in his voice and manner was a
                                    loftiness that made all lend ear. "I join with our good
                                    host in wishing peace. 'T is sinful to draw the sword
                                    save when all other means have failed. But if war must come, let
                                    it comel God save King George! say I. He will not want for men
                                    willing to uphold his just claims to this great wilderness.
                                    Whether it be war or peace, these virgin valleys will in
                                    generations to come be inhabited by vast populations speaking
                                    the English tongue. 'T is destiny. God has willed
                                    it!"
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER III
                              THE WARNING
                              WHEN think you we'll see the valley again,
                                    Barnaby?"
                              Barnaby Currin finished wiping out the priming-pan of his rifle,
                                    glanced cautiously at the knot of soldiers collected at the
                                    other end of the log barracks, then looked up at Randolph, who
                                    was standing by the fireplace.
                              "God knows, Charles, an' he ain't
                                    tellin'," he said soberly. "If some
                                    of these frog-eatin' Frenchers had their way,
                                    I'm thinkin' we'd never see
                                    it."
                              Randolph gave one of the logs in the fireplace a kick that sent the
                                    sparks flying up the wide-mouthed chimney, and threw an added
                                    glare out upon his boyish ardent face.
                              "Why do you say that?" he demanded.
                              "Faith, see how they do be glowerin' at
                                    us!"
                              Randolph looked at the soldiers, and saw that they were, in truth,
                                    casting covert glances toward him and his companion that could
                                    hardly be construed as friendly.
                              "Why don't we take the back track?"
                                    persisted the borderer.
                              "'Tis the stubbornness of those infernal Indians
                                    that keeps us," said Randolph vindictively.
                                    "Saint-Pierre promised us canoes and gave us his sealed
                                    answer before he left for PresquIisle. We'd have
                                    started yesterday but the sachems would n't go, as you
                                    know. We can't leave 'em under French
                                    influence; and, now that the horses and all the men but you are
                                    gone back to Venango, we need the rascals to work the
                                    canoes."
                              
                              "What excuses do the Injuns be givin'?"
                                    asked the borderer, with the air of one who knew the answer.
                              The scowl on Randolph's face deepened.
                                    "They're still weary, they say. The food is
                                    good, their wigwam warm, they want to rest another night --
                                    confound 'em!
                              " The borderer nodded comprehendingly.
                                    "Dhrunk?" he queried.
                              "As old Dahomey Nat whenwe found him in the plantation
                                    wine cellar," said Randolph, giving the log a yet more
                                    savage kick. "What doyou know?"
                              The borderer got up and drew nearer Randolph.
                                    "Charles" he said in a low voice,
                                    "I've been keepin' me eyes
                                    an' me ears open since we've been in this
                                    place."
                              "Yes?" said Randolph questioningly. "You
                                    usually do that"
                              "The Frinch rascals do be runnin' to our Injuns,
                                    a-givin' of 'em this, a-givin' of
                                    'em that, an' akeepin' 'em
                                    dhrunk the whole of the time. That strappin' one-eyed
                                    son-iv-a-divil that you had a ruction with was to see
                                    'em yisterday before he set off toards the lake. I
                                    watched him talkin' to 'em an' to
                                    that ugly Cat, an' he did be lookin' as though
                                    he meant mischief."
                              "Likely enough," said Randolph eagerly.
                                    "But do you know anything for certain?"
                              "Nothing I could take oath to on the Evangels,"
                                    returned the borderer cautiously. "But, as sure as
                                    I'm the Scotch-Irishman you helped elope across the
                                    Potomac, they're up to some diviltry!"
                              "If you're right, we'll fnd a way to
                                    match them," said Randolph confidently. "If
                                    you're wrong, we'll soon be on the way home.
                                    Ellen and little Barnaby'll be glad to see you, or I
                                    miss my guess."
                              "Sure, an' it's I that 'll be
                                    glad to see Ellen an' the boy--bless his little
                                    curly-headed soul!" said the bor- derer, and a look that was good to see
                                    came into his face. "The sooner we're started
                                    the better, say I!"
                              After some further talk Randolph reentered the fort, wondering as
                                    be walked along if there was any truth in Barnaby's
                                    suspicions. As he passed the commandant's quarters, the
                                    trend of his thoughts was suddenly changed by a voice; it was
                                    that of the old French serving woman, who was hurrying out
                                    toward him.
                              "Un moment, monsieur," she
                                    said; "mademoiselle would to you speak."
                              Turning, she led the way into the house. Randolph followed,
                                    wondering what might be the cause of the summons, yet withal by
                                    no means averse to the interview. His guide conducted him into
                                    the same room as on previous occasions, and presently
                                    Mademoiselle Alfrede entered. She was simply dressed, but was as
                                    good as ever to look upon; he thought the effect of a par of
                                    dainty moccasins ornamented with painted porcupine quills
                                    particularly fascinating.
                              "I was obliged to speak with some member of your party,
                                    Monsieur Randolph," she said, in tones that showed
                                    traces of agitation; "I felt that I knew you better
                                    than any of the others."
                              He bowed his acknowledgments. "I feel highly flattered,
                                    mademoiselle, at being so singled out."
                              "'T is no time for polite speeches," she
                                    said soberly, as they seated themselves. "I wish to
                                    talk about a matter of very great seriousness. Has it not seemed
                                    strange to you that you were unable to induce your Indian guides
                                    to take the homeward way?"
                              "Mademoiselle," he answered, seeing vaguely what
                                    was coming, "we have been much provoked by their
                                    behavior, which we have attributed in part to the vagaries of
                                    the native character. But I admit we have suspected that there might be outside influences
                                    at work upon them. Mr. Currin, our remaining borderer, with whom
                                    I have just been talking, is certain of it."
                              She hesitated as if uncertain whether she ought to proceed.
                                    "The man is right. There are such infuences,"
                                    she said at last.
                              "Are the Indians aware of them?"
                              "I think not. As I understand it, they are merely
                                    dupes."
                              "But what is the object?"
                              Her face flushed. "Mr. Randolph," she said,
                                    "humiliating as it is to my French pride, I think I
                                    ought to tell you all. There is a plot on foot to ambuscade your
                                    party on the way down the river."
                              "Who is back of this plot?" he demanded.
                              "Captain Reparti," answered the girl, after
                                    renewed hesitation.
                              "I was sure it was not your father," he said, in
                                    tones of relief. "I would swear that he is the soul of
                                    honor. But why does Reparti wish to waylay us when we are
                                    envoys, and, according to the custom of nations, exempt from
                                    violence?"
                              "He hates all the English. He wants war, and thinks such
                                    an act would precipitate it. He thinks that if he could make way
                                    with the Half-King and the other chiefs with you, the French
                                    party among the Mingoes would be able to control. The plan is to
                                    keep you here for two days longer by detaining the Indians.
                                    Captain Reparti and the sachem Le Chat left yesterday ostensibly
                                    for Presqu'isle; in reality to visit an Ottawa village
                                    on the lake and enlist warriors for the work. He wishes to make
                                    it appear that the deed was the work of Indians alone--that is,
                                    if he should find it convenient to conceal his part in it. He
                                    expects to lie in wait with his war party at the Great Drift,and there destroy you. He
                                    has boasted that he will take you personally alive and give you
                                    over to the savages. You must by all means leave tomorrow, and
                                    travel swiftly."
                              TheVirginian rose to his feet. "Egadl" he cried,
                                    with kindling look. "He must catch his hare first. How
                                    did you learn all this?"
                              "From the Indian woman, Marie."
                              "Is she trustworthy?"
                              "Last winter at Niagara we found her sick, deserted, and
                                    starving in the woods. I cared for her, and she has been as
                                    faithful as adog. I would trust her in anything."
                              "'T was an act of kindness such as I should
                                    expect from you," he said. "But why did she
                                    think you would be interested in us? To her we must have seemed
                                    your enemies."
                              For some reason the girl blushed and hesitated. Finally she said:
                                    "Marie knows you are our guests--that you are envoys.
                                    Even an Indian respects ambassadors."
                              "Whether or not she speaks the truth," said he,
                                    "the matter must be looked into. I cannot express how
                                    much indebted we are to you for warning us. I hope that sometime
                                    I may be able to repay you. But I fear that soon our countries
                                    will be at war and that then you, too, will hate me as your
                                    enemy."
                              "If hostilities do come, I shall cry 'Vive la belle France!' with all my
                                    heart," she said, with flashing eyes. "But the
                                    Scriptures say we should pray for our enemies,
                                    monsieur."
                              "The Scriptures enumerate still another thing that one
                                    should do for one's enemies," he said, drawing
                                    nearer. "I am happy that you believe in the Sriptures,
                                    mademoiselle."
                              "Do not take too much for granted," she replied,
                                    with an arch look from beneath long lashes. "I may not
                                    be so pious as you think, monsieur." 
                              
                              He drew still nearer. "I shall be grateful even for your
                                    prayers," he said gayly. "Whatever may be the
                                    sentiments with which our kings regard each other, I shall
                                    always be your friend. If war comes, I shall hope for better
                                    days when you will perhaps no longer regard me as an enemy. But
                                    if it does come, I shall do my part."
                              "Be careful, monsieur, else perhaps I may see you before
                                    peace is declared," she said, with a note of raillery
                                    in her voice.
                              "What do you mean by that?"
                              "French soldiers are valiant; I mean that perhaps you may
                                    be taken prisoner."
                              "If such a fate would mean that I were to enjoy the
                                    happiness you mention, I am sure I should prove false to my
                                    duty," he said meaningly.
                              "Ciel! you are as ready as a Frenchman
                                    with your compliments!" she cried.
                              The red blood mounted to their faces. For a few moments there was
                                    silence. They were standing very near each other, for she, too,
                                    had risen. He felt an insane impulse to draw nearer still!
                              "My compliments are never empty ones," he said
                                    unsteadily, overcoming the impulse. "However soon your
                                    gallant countrymen capture me, I shall at least not be taken by
                                    Captain Reparti and his hand of cutthroat redskins. Forewarned
                                    will be forearmed with us. By the Lord Harry, we will give him a
                                    reception he will remember!"
                              "Oh, but you must not attempt that!" she cried
                                    earnestly. "He will have an overwhelming force, and you
                                    would have no chance. Besides, I do not want bloodshed. I still
                                    hope for peace, as does my father. You must leave early tomorrow
                                    and avoid a conflict. If my father were here, I am sure he would
                                    know how to put a stop to the attempt; but he is not, and I fear
                                    that Lieutenant Repentigny is at
                                    least a passive participant. You must flee!"
                              "And let this roystering, treacherous bushranger say that
                                    I was afraid? Never, mademoiselle!"
                              "You must not speak so disparagingly of Captain Reparti.
                                    Remember he is a Frenchman," she said, pretending to be
                                    offended.
                              "I congratulate you on the fact," said he
                                    sarcastically, not taking her speech seriously. "Of
                                    course I should be more discreet. Yesterday morning I heard him
                                    boast that he had asked the chevalier for your
                                    hand."
                              "Monsieur, you are very bold!" she said severely,
                                    and with her moccasined foot she began tapping lightly upon the
                                    floor.
                              "I beg your pardon," he said, penitent yet angry,
                                    as he saw that Reparti had spoken the truth. "I know I
                                    have been rude. I did not take the boast seriously. Perhaps the
                                    offer has even been accepted."
                              "Why should it not be?" she demanded airily, with
                                    a toss of her head. "Marriages are arranged in my
                                    country. He is a renowned soldier and is one of the richest men
                                    in all Nouvelle-France."
                              "And has besides half a dozen squaw mistresses, I
                                    understand," Randolph interjected, with a savageness
                                    that surprised him.
                              "Monsieur!" she cried, and stamped her foot.
                              "Anger becomes you, mademoiselle," he said
                                    judicially.
                              With an air of disdain, she shrugged her shoulders and turned her
                                    back on him.
                              "A pair of pink ears are not to be despised, but I prefer
                                    your face, mademoiselle," he continued, determined not
                                    to be beaten. And he stepped in front of her.
                              Her indignation broke down. She burst out laughing. "Chut!" she said, "let us
                                    be serious! Promise me that youwill
                                    throw aside your stubborn pride and leave in the
                                    morning." Her voice took on a tone of entreaty that
                                    appealed to him powerfully.
                              "At least I will tell my companions what you have told
                                    me," he conceded. "The decision will rest with
                                    them."
                              "Do so, and do not lose a moment," she said, with
                                    evident relief.
                              Randolph was loth to withdraw, for, in spite of the startling news
                                    he had received, he had found the interview a pleasant one. But
                                    he felt that he must no longer keep the information from his
                                    companions.
                              "Shall I see you again?" he asked, reluctantly
                                    moving toward the door.
                              "Probably not. It would be better for my father, I think,
                                    that there should be no suspicion that I betrayed the plan. He
                                    has enemies at court who would gladly seize on any pretext to
                                    injure him."
                              "Could you not at least come and see us off?" he
                                    ventured boldly.
                              The girl thought for a moment irresolutely. "I will be on
                                    the lower bastion," she said at last. "Marie
                                    will find out when you are to start."
                              "Ishall look for you. Until then, adieu," he
                                    said; and, kissing the hand she held out to him with a fervor
                                    that to an older person the length of their acquaintance might
                                    not have seemed to warrant, he took his departure and hurried to
                                    his companions.
                              To them he unfolded in a few moments what he had heard.
                                    "The question is whether we shall try to escape or stay
                                    and fight," he said in conclusion. "I should
                                    hate to give that bushranger the opportunity to say that we ran
                                    away."
                              "I would rather he should say it several times than have
                                    my scalp flapping from some warrior's greasy
                                    belt," said Washington,
                                    drily. "No, Charles, we must pull up stakes and make a
                                    run for it. I would myself like to make the closer acquaintance
                                    of this hectoring captain and his minions, but I would prefer to
                                    have some companies of Virginians at my back. If I mistake not,
                                    the opportunity will come. But now we must see our Indiansand
                                    prevail upon them to go with us tomorrow."
                              "I see, George, that you are determined to have me buy
                                    that sword-knot," said Randolph, laughing. "So
                                    be it. Perhaps it will be safer not to die in debt, even though,
                                    I presume, the are no debtor's prisons in heaven, eh,
                                    Van Braam?"
                              "Or in the other place," added the major.
                                    "But--to work."
                              Lieutenant Repentigny made some diffculties about their visiting
                                    the Indians again that day, but the major demanded the right
                                    peremptorily, and finally they were allowed to pass through the
                                    gate to the wigwam. They found their guides squatting round a
                                    little fire with their blankets wrapped closely about them.
                              "Hearken, brothers!" said Washington.
                                    "When the sun comes up again, will you be ready to set
                                    out?"
                              "We would tarry yet another day with our father
                                    Onontio," answered the Half-King, who, as the most
                                    considerable of the four, acted as spokesman. "Our feet
                                    are sore; our bones are not yet warm; and Onontio is kinder than
                                    we thought. He has promised that if we will remain another day
                                    we shall each receive a new gun, and that a canoe-load of goods
                                    shall be sent to our village."
                              "Are my brothers foolish beaver, not foxes, to be caught
                                    by such a snare? Hearken; Onontio is a singing bird! The chief
                                    with the one eye is even now on his way to secure a war party of
                                    your enemies, the Ottawas, and lie in wait for us at the Great
                                    Drift. He would kill your brothers theEnglish, because they are English; you
                                    he would slay because you are our friends, and because he thinks
                                    by so doing the friends of Onontio among the Mingoes would then
                                    have most weight around the council fire."
                              "Does Conotocarious speak truth, brother?" asked
                                    the Half-King of Gist.
                              "When has he spoken otherwise?" returned the
                                    trader. "Yea, brothers, there be snakes in the grass!
                                    We must tread warily, else we shall be bitten!"
                              "Then we will outrun the snakes!" said the
                                    sachem. "At sunrise we will set out. No Ottawa shall
                                    catch us. I have spoken."
                              "The chief is wise," said Washington.
                                    "So be it. Be ready."
                              The polite efforts of Lieutenant Repentigny to prevail upon his
                                    guests to remain yet another day proved unavailing. So it came
                                    about that just as the first cold beams of the December sun
                                    touched the tops of the hemlocks the four envoys, with Currin
                                    and the Indian guides, stepped into two birch canoes and paddled
                                    out into the stream. Around them in every direction stretched
                                    the bleak and pathless forest, hiding they knew not what
                                    hardships and perils in its primeval fastnesses. The air was
                                    freezing cold, and the black water was filled with floating ice.
                                    It was a morning to bring home to the travelers the stern
                                    realities of the six-hundred-mile journey upon which they were
                                    plunging.
                              The point of embarkation was a little above the fort, and as the
                                    flotilla came in sight of the last bastion Randolph looked
                                    curiously to see if mademoiselle had kept her word. Early as it
                                    was, she had, indeed. She stood upon the topmost rampart. As the
                                    boats passed the bastion, the four called right heartily:
                              "Farewell, mademoiselle!"
                              
                              "Adieu, messieurs, et bon voyage, bon
                                          voyage!" she cried in answer.
                              "Cott pless her! She vas a prave girl!" said Van
                                    Braam, wiping his eyes.
                              A bend in the river soon hid the fort from view; but as Randolph
                                    turned to wave a last farewell, she was still standing there
                                    upon the bastion, her slender form silhouetted against the pink
                                    morning sky, and he thought he heard her say again,
                                          "Bon royage!" A moment
                                    more and she was out of sight. As he bent forward to ply his
                                    paddle in the icy water, Randolph thought of the manifold perils
                                    which lurked about her and wondered, with a strange clutching at
                                    his threat, if he would ever see her again.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER IV
                              THE CABIN IN THE CLEARING
                              RANDOLPH, Van Braam, and Barnaby Currin were
                                    returning from the Ohio. Encumbered rather than aided by their
                                    half-starved horses, they traveled in the footsteps of that
                                    young leader who had hastened onward through the wintry
                                    wilderness to make his report to the Scotch governor at
                                    Williamsburg and become "the rising hope of
                                    Virginia."
                              All unconsciously they passed over ground that eighteen months
                                    later was to be the scene of a great battle and a great defeat.
                                    They crossed and recrossed the frozen Monongahela, and at the
                                    mouth of the Youghiogheny came to Queen Alequippa's
                                    town, where they were entertained by royalty in a flea-infested
                                    wigwam, in return for which hospitality they presented the queen
                                    with an axe and a bottle of brandy, which latter her Serene
                                    Highness esteemed much the better gift of the two. Some miles
                                    beyond they met a train of pack-horses loaded with materials for
                                    an English fort at the Forks of the Ohio, the gateway of the
                                    imperial West, and a day later a few families going out to
                                    settle on the grant recently obtained by the Ohio Company.
                              When the party had passed, Barnaby looked long and thoughtfully
                                    after them until the great gray tree trunks hid them from view.
                                    "The frontier pot'll soon be
                                    b'ilin'," he said sagely.
                                    "I'm sorry for them people. The Frenchers
                                    won't stand settlers, or I miss my guess."
                              
                              Late one afternoon a cabin set down in the midst of the woods lay
                                    in their path--a crude affair of unbarked logs chinked with
                                    leaves and moss and covered with squares of bark held down by
                                    poles. The rough stone chimney scarcely reached above the level
                                    of the roof, and the door of bark was hung upon hinges made of
                                    withes.
                              "I see no smoke," said Randolph, when they
                                    reached the edge of the little clearing. "The place
                                    must be deserted."
                              "Hello! hello!" shouted Barnaby. His voice echoed
                                    through the desolate woods, startling a solitary crow perched in
                                    the dead top of a distant oak; but no frowsy head appeared at
                                    the door in answer to the call.
                              "If the folks are at home, they certainly most be
                                    deef," said Barnaby. He advanced without further
                                    ceremony, pulled aside the rude door, and peered in.
                                    "My God!" he cried, starting back in horror.
                                    "No wonder they didn't answer!"
                              Randolph and Van Braam looked in and saw the reason for his
                                    exclamation. On the earthen floor lay a man and woman and three
                                    children scalped and mangled in a manner not to be described.
                                    The bodies were almost naked, and the one poor room had been
                                    stripped of all articles of value.
                              "Mine Cott! mine Cott!" cried Van Bream, wringing
                                    his hands.
                              "The devil's work has been done here!"
                                    said Randolph, sickened by the sight. "May God punish
                                    the guilty!"
                              "'T is the handiwork of outlyin'
                                    Injuns," said Barnaby, handling his rifle and looking
                                    eagerly about him. "It's been done some time,
                                    for see how the poor bodies have been gnawed by wolves and
                                    bears."
                              "Look thar!" he continued presently, pointing to
                                    a cabalistic sign painted on the inside of the door.
                                    "That shows it to be the work of French Ottawas. A
                                    trader toldme once that a war party
                                    always laves a mark so that their tribe will get the credit for
                                    the diviltry, an' that mark, he said, was the mark of
                                    the Ottawas. I expect that ugly Cat an' that one-eyed
                                    son-of-a-divil Reparti had a hand in it."
                              "'T is what will befall all our border
                                    settlements if these plotting Frenchmen are not driven
                                    out," said Randolph. "For two generations the
                                    frontiers of New York and New England have been harried by
                                    hellish bands. Our turn has come, I fear. This might happen to
                                    your little home, Barnaby."
                              "May de duivel his choicest room in hell
                                    for such fiends reserve!" exclaimed the indignant Van
                                    Braam.
                              After burying the bodies as best they could inside the cabin, the
                                    travelers turned their backs on this wreck of fond hopes of
                                    prosperity and happiness such a scene as for generations was to
                                    be all too common on the blood-drenched Borderland and journeyed
                                    on. The snow grew ever deeper; the frozen tree trunks cracked
                                    about them with reports like pistol shots. Their food supply
                                    diminished, for game was scarce; the wolves made horrible music
                                    around their campfires: but they passed through the gorge of
                                    Laurel Hill, climbed the parallel walls of the Alleghenies,
                                    paused at the trading post of Will's Creek on the upper
                                    Potomac, and then steering toward the lofty crests of the Blue
                                    Ridge, crossed Opequon Creek one clear afternoon, and
                                    surmounting a hill, came in sight of Barnaby's cabin in
                                    the beautiful valley of the lower Shenandoah.
                              For days the young Irishman had looked forward to this home-coming
                                    with feverish impatience. More than once Randolph had urged him
                                    to hurry ahead and leave him and Van Brawn to follow more
                                    slowly; but, as the weeks of exposure and hardship had begun to
                                    tell on Randolph's health, Barnaby had resolutely
                                    refused to do so. TheIrishman's anxiety to reach his home can scarcely
                                    have beep due to its palatial character, for, to outward
                                    appearances, it was at this season of the year not particularly
                                    prepossessing. The farm was ample in size, containing in all
                                    more than five hundred acres, but only forty or fifty acres had
                                    been cleared of forest, though another tract perhaps one-third
                                    as large had been deadened. Near the center of the clearing
                                    stood the cabin, some stacks of hay, and an enormous woodpile,
                                    almost as large as the cabin itself.
                              Such was Barnaby's dwelling place, but let no reader
                                    despise it. Other buildings more artistic and more imposing have
                                    risen in this western world, but none that has played the part
                                    in history that has the humble cabin of the frontier settler. It
                                    housed a race of mighty warriors and colonizers. In its shelter,
                                    nourished on homely "hog and hominy," grew the
                                    bone and sinew that conquered the wilderness westward to the
                                    Pacific, overcame the savage, and made the nation what it
                                    is.
                              Cheered by a hospitable smoke that curled above the cabin, they
                                    plunged down the snow-covered hillside into the valley. Each man
                                    led a lean horse, which staggered under a pack of blankets,
                                    axes, and other utensils. Ahead hurried the Irishman; and, in
                                    proportion as the distance diminished, his strides grew longer
                                    and more rapid.
                              "Do you think they will see us before we get
                                    there?" asked Randolph, with eager interest, when they
                                    were within a hundred yards.
                              Hardly was the question uttered ere the cabin door was thrown open,
                                    and a great hound and a little curly-headed boy bounded out and
                                    came barking and shrieking in pure delight down the path.
                              "Daddy! daddy!" the boy: cried and threw himself
                                    into Barnaby's arms. "You comed back!
                                    I'm so glad you comed
                                    back! You mustn't go avay and leave your little boy
                                    again."
                              It was a good sight to see. Randolph felt the tears start in his
                                    eyes, while Van Braam said heartily:
                              "A fine little poy! a fine little poy! Dis is vone of dose
                                    dimes ven a varrior vishes he had married peen and not a
                                    soldier!"
                              A woman, whose beauty triumphed over the homespun in which she was
                                    clad, and a gnarled old oak of a man came hurrying out of the
                                    cabin, and likewise fell upon the borderer.
                              "Barnaby!" the woman cried, as she kissed him,
                                    "Barnaby!"
                              "Praise God you're back, son!" said the
                                    old man. "We've been that anxious about you we
                                    could hardly work. Ellen 's kept the door open so much
                                    watchin' for ye that I've the rheumatism
                                    dreadful."
                              "Charles," said Ellen, turning to Randolph,
                                    "we are indeed glad to see you. Theme's been
                                    scarce a day since we settled here that Barnaby has n't
                                    spoken of you."
                              Randolph bent over her hand, and then shook that of the old man,
                                    who looked his well-knit athletic figure up and down with
                                    approving eye.
                              "Faith, an' five years are after makin'
                                    a difference in a lad," he said.
                              "He was n't too small then to help row a
                                    boat," said Barnaby, Senior, with a meaning glance at
                                    Ellen.
                              He then presented Van Braam, who likewise was made to feel that
                                    there was no mistake about his welcome.
                              "Go in be the foire, all of ye," said the
                                    grandfather, interrupting their talk. "Oi'll
                                    take care of the horses. No, ye can't help me none; ye
                                    got to go roight in!"
                              Thus urged, the travelers were soon gathered round a roaring fire
                                    in the fireplace, while Ellen hastened to cookwhat she called "a civilized
                                    meal." While Barnaby played with the boy and Van Braam
                                    with vast content absorbed the grateful heat, Randolph looked
                                    round him with interest and called to mind the circumstances
                                    that had brought the Currins thither. Barnaby and his father
                                    were Scotch-Irishmen, who, unlike most persons included under
                                    that name, really had a deal of Irish blood in their veins.
                                    Barnaby was born on the "ould sod" four or
                                    five years before Randolph saw the light at Eastover; but when
                                    he was just beginning to talk, the family joined that great
                                    stream of immigration which in the third decade of the century
                                    was pouring, thanks to hostile English legislation, from the
                                    North of Ireland into the Colonies to become the farflung
                                    skirmish line of the Western Advance. Landing at Philadelphia,
                                    the family soon drifted southward to Virginia, where for many
                                    years Barnaby's sire worked as blacksmith and miller on
                                    the Randolph plantation. Barnaby and Randolph grew up together;
                                    and, despite their difference in rank, there was always a close
                                    bond of friendship between them--a bond that was all the
                                    stronger on Randolph's part because Barnaby once pulled
                                    him out of a prospective watery grave in the Potomac.
                              Five years before our story opens, Barnaby, who was a handsome
                                    enterprising young fellow and had "a way with
                                    him," had eloped with Ellen Cary, the only child of
                                    Major Cary, a neighboring planter. As the Carys were members of
                                    the class of "Tuckahoes," or tide-water
                                    aristocracy of Virginia, and as Ellen was a great belle in the
                                    society that centered about the capital at Williamsburg, the
                                    marriage was the talk of the province. The parents of the bride
                                    resolutely refused to become reconciled to the match; and
                                    Barnaby, his pride and ambition aroused, determined to seek his
                                    fortune beyond the wall of the Blue Ridge in the fertile and
                                    romantic valley of the Shenandoah. Urged onby his son's entreaties, the
                                    elder Randolph, who was a member of the burgesses, used his
                                    influence to obtain for Barnaby a grant of land--a kindness that
                                    proved to be one of the last acts of his life. With his wife and
                                    rheumatic father Barnaby removed to his new home, but, like most
                                    pioneers, was greatly handicapped by lack of funds. Knowing
                                    this, Randolph had obtained for him the opportunity to make the
                                    trip to the Ohio at a good rate of compensation and thus turn to
                                    account the idle winter months.
                              It was five years since the Currins moved to the valley, and in
                                    that time Randolph had not seen any of the family except
                                    Barnaby. Having played a prominent part in their elopement, he
                                    was curious to discover whether the match was a happy one. That
                                    Barnaby would be faithful and considerate Randolph had never
                                    doubted, for he came of God-fearing stock and was a man of much
                                    natural ability and refinement of character and of more
                                    education than his language might seem to indicate. But time and
                                    poverty often dull the keen edge of romance and Randolph had
                                    wondered sometimes if Ellen might not come to regret a choice
                                    which deprived her of the luxuries and society to which she had
                                    been accustomed and condemned her to the monotonous existence of
                                    the border. But after seeing the light in her eyes and noting
                                    how some invisible power irresistibly brought her every minute
                                    near Barnaby's chair, he utterly ceased to feel any
                                    weight of responsibility for his part in the match.
                              He was much pleased to see that the interior of the house and the
                                    furniture were very creditable to Barnaby's ambition
                                    and energy. Instead of the one room that was usually esteemed
                                    enough on the frontier, there were three, besides a loft above
                                    that was used for sleeping. Dirt floors, he relected, were the
                                    usual rule; but this cabin had one of whip-sawed lumber. There
                                    was also some furniture from"the settlements." Still, the residence
                                    could hardly be called luxurious. The walls were hung with
                                    implements of industry and of the chase; sundry hams, bags of
                                    seed, and bunches of red peppers were suspended from the
                                    ceiling; and a single great fireplace served for heating,
                                    lighting, and cooking.
                              "'Tain't Eastover!" said
                                    Barnaby, Senior, apologetically, reading his friend's
                                    thoughts. "It's better than Eastover would be
                                    if I had had to build it from the ground up," said
                                    Randolph heartily. "Baraby, you have done
                                    nobly!" And he held out his hand.
                              The child regarded the men unwinkingly, then he drew near Randolph.
                                    "I like you!" he said gravely. "I
                                    like everybody who likes my daddy."
                              Presently the father asked: "What's happened,
                                    son, since I've been gone?"
                              "Old Bwindle has a little wed bossy; and ve old black sow
                                    has ten little piggies; and a big old b'ar tried to et
                                    'em all up, did n't he, danpa?" cried
                                    the boy, his eyes shining.
                              "That's her hoide nailed out to the side of the
                                    barn," answered the old man, who had just come in.
                                    "She was the biggest b'ar I iver seed
                                    an' that hard to kill it took three bullets to fetch
                                    her."
                              "Were you afraid of the bear?" asked Randolph of
                                    the boy.
                              Barnaby, Junior, hung his head, partly through bashfulness and
                                    partly for another reason.
                              "Tell what you did," said the mother,
                                    laughing.
                              "I cwawled under ve bed," the boy admitted
                                    shamefacedly.
                              "But it was him saw the b'ar first an'
                                    tould me to shoot her," said the grandfather, coming to
                                    the rescue. "He wasout
                                    playin' wid his sled, an' the b'ar
                                    made fer him an' might 've ketched him if old
                                    Ring hadn't nipped her in the flank. Then the old
                                    varmint turned to the pig-pen. The sow stood her off till got
                                    there wid me rifle.
                              Barnaby, Senior, called the hound to him and patted his great head.
                                    "Good dog, Ring, good dog!" he said
                                    gratefully.
                              "We've fed him so well ever since that
                                    he's getting disgustingly fat," said Ellen,
                                    likewise giving the dog a caress.
                              "He's not so fat yit but what he goes off
                                    huntin' ivry noight," said the grandfather, as
                                    he threw some more logs on the fire. "There's
                                    no kapin' him, except by tyin' him up,
                                    an' thin he's after howlin' the whole
                                    of the toime."
                              "Muvver's made you a, new huntin'-shirt,
                                    daddy," said the boy, evidently anxious to pass on to a
                                    subject that would render improbable any recurrence to the
                                    episode of the bed. "Put it on, daddy; I want to see
                                    you."
                              He ran into the adjoining room, and presently returned bearing the
                                    garment. "Put it on, daddy," he iterated;
                                    "I do want to see you."
                              A backwoods cabin is not a place of conventionalities. To humor the
                                    child, and perhaps not unwilling to be rid of the worn and
                                    soiled garment be was wearing, Barnaby yielded to the
                                    boy's solicitations; and the two retired into the room
                                    from which the shirt had been brought. Presently the youngster
                                    reappeared pulling his somewhat embarrassed parent after him and
                                    crying:
                              "See daddy now! See daddy wiv his new shirt!"
                              "Bravo!" Randolph cried, clapping his hands.
                                    "Daddy is now the handsomest man in the valley. Ellen,
                                    it makes Mr. Van Braam and me feel envious and wish we had wives
                                    to make hunting-shirts for us."
                               The garment was a flowing affair, a sort of loose frock, reaching
                                    half-way down the thighs, with large sleeves; itopened in front and was so wide that it
                                    lapped a foot or more over the belt. The cape was cut large, and
                                    was fringed with a raveled piece of parti-colored cloth, the
                                    main garment being nut-brown in color. Picturesque in itself,
                                    the shirt was just what was needed to set off Barnaby's
                                    supple athletic figure.
                              "I think he'll do," Ellen said
                                    happily.
                              "Go on with your blarneyin''! " cried
                                    Barnaby gayly; and catching up his son, he began to execute the
                                    steps of a Virginia reel.
                              Supper was presently annouced,and all gathered round the table.
                                    Ellen had set forth her best; but the plates, cups, saucers, and
                                    spoons were of pewter, the knives and forks of iron, and the
                                    larger vessels, called trenchers and noggins, were either wooden
                                    bowls or gourds.
                              "Spakin' of beauty," quoth Baraby, after
                                    his father, a devout Presbyterian for all his Irish brogue, had
                                    said grace, "spakin' of beauty, Ellen, while I
                                    was gone I saw the first lady I ever saw I thought was as pretty
                                    as you are."
                              "La! who was this fair charmer, pray?" Ellen
                                    demanded, pretending great concern.
                              "Ask me friend Charles," said Barnaby.
                                    "Who was she, Charles? Spake up now!"
                              It was now Randolph's turn to blush. "To which
                                    one do you refer, Barnaby? To the French serving woman, the
                                    Indian squaw Marie, or her Royal Greasiness, Queen
                                    Alequippa?"
                              "What a blow to me!" laughed Ellen, making a wry
                                    face.
                              "Nayther," said Barnaby. "I mean the one
                                    ye kipt twistin' yer blessed neck off to catch a last
                                    glimpse of as we paddled down sthrame from the
                                    fort."
                              "She was a peautiful girl, dot was drue," said
                                    Van Braam,to whom the snow-white
                                    hominy, bear steak, johnny cakes, and maple syrup called up the
                                    memory of another pleasant occasion. "She vas vone goot
                                    cook, too--put no petter dan a laty who in dis house
                                    resides," he continued, with a bow to Ellen.
                                    "She fed us vell, von all our hearts, from de safages
                                    safed us, and vafed us 'bon
                                    voyage' as ve set off. Vy should ve not all our
                                    heads dwist off to see de last of such a peauty?"
                              "Whinever ye want to elope with her, I'm your
                                    man, Charles," declared Barnaby, determined to have his
                                    joke. "Turn about's fair play, say I. French
                                    Creek's not so broad a sthrame as the Potomac, but ye
                                    have to evade hairliftin' Injuns as well as the
                                    disthressed parents of the bride. Say the word, me good friend,
                                    an' Barnaby's your man."
                              "I'll call on you when the time comes,"
                                    Randolph replied, realizing that he might as well enter into the
                                    spirit of Barnaby's banter. "Bear witness, all
                                    of you, to Barnaby's rash offer."
                              "I'll be wid ye, me son, be it seed time and
                                    harvest all rolled into one," declared Barnaby.
                              "I'll make a wonderful hunting-shirt for the
                                    wedding," said Ellen gayly.
                              "Oi'll find a fat b'ar for the
                                    weddin' feast," said the grandfather.
                              "And Jacob Van Braam vill all infitations to tinner accept
                                    after de vetting is ofer," quoth the Dutchman, with
                                    conviction.
                              It was late that night before all the details of the journey had
                                    been related and the family and the travelers were at last in
                                    bed--the first real beds the travelers had slept in for many
                                    long weeks. It was well that they reached this haven of refuge
                                    when they did, for next morning Randolph awoke with a fever and
                                    by night was seriously ill.For a
                                    week he grew steadily worse until his condition was truly
                                    alarming. Then, when his friends were beginning to despair, the
                                    disease spent itself, and he began slowly to improve. But it was
                                    apparent that he would be too weak to travel for a considerable
                                    time, so, after the patient was out of danger, Van Braamn set
                                    out for Williamsburg. Three weeks after his departure, Randolph
                                    felt that he was strong enough to follow; but the urgent
                                    protests of the whole Currin family, including Barnaby, Junior,
                                    who was now Randolph's special chum, detained him for
                                    another week.
                              One day towards the end of March, the day before he was to depart,
                                    Randolph, accompanied by the little boy and Ring, walked out
                                    into the fields where the father and grandfather were working.
                                    The budding leaves were beginning to burst from their brown
                                    sheaths, and the bluebirds were trilling merrily as they
                                    searched for sheltered cavities in which to build their nests.
                                    In the brush-encumbered deadening, through which the way led,
                                    purple violets were peeping through the grass; and the boy ran
                                    hither and thither plucking them. Randolph lisened with interest
                                    to his prattle. Assuredly he was a likable child, for, though
                                    the Old Adam broke out at times, he was withal good-natured, and
                                    the general goodness of his little soul was revealed by many of
                                    the things he said and did. Already he had won a large place in
                                    the man's heart.
                              "See my booful johnny-jump-ups!" the boy cried
                                    presently, holding up his bouquet. "They're
                                    for muvver."
                              "She will love them, I know;" said Randolph, and
                                    fell to helping pick the fowers. "She loves beautiful
                                    things."
                              "Did she have a boofuller home 'fore she married
                                    my daddy?" queried the boy, a train of thought
                                    suggested by Randolph's last words.
                              "Who told you she had?" Randolph asked
                                    evasively.
                              
                              "Danpa. I mean my own danpa. Does you know my other
                                    danpa?"
                              "Yes."
                              "Is he a bad, bad man?"
                              "Why do you ask that?"
                              "He doesn't like my daddy. Every good man
                                    'u'd like my daddy. He works to get sings for
                                    muvver and me to eat. He makes me sleds and lets me ride on old
                                    Nance's back, and does ever so many other sings for
                                    me."
                              They were drawing near the clearing where the grandfather was at
                                    work. The old man's axe strokes, as he lopped the limbs
                                    from a prostrate tree, rang strong and clear, and he was
                                    singing:
                              
                              
                                    "Know that the Lord is God indeed;
                                    Without our aid He did us make;
                                    We are His flock, He doth us feed,
                                    And for His sheep He doth us take."
                              
                              
                              At intervals he paused in his chopping to throw the detached limbs
                                    upon a great pile of blazing brush. Against a stump close by
                                    leaned the ever ready rifle, for no man knew what the
                                    interminable forest around might hide.
                              "'T is hard labor to win the land but 't
                                    is worth it," the old man said, as he wiped his
                                    blackened face. "A bit of stirrin'
                                    an' some seed is nigh all it needs to yield a grand
                                    crop. There bee n't no sich prime sile beyant them
                                    mountains yonder," and he pointed eastward to where the
                                    Blue Ridge raised its towering barrier toward the sky.
                              "'T is virgin land indeed," assented
                                    Randolph. "Barnaby will have a fine plantation here
                                    some day."
                              "It'll be after takin' work,"
                                    said the old man, lighting his pipe. "The land has to
                                    be chopped out, ye might say. But Barnaby'll do his
                                    part, an' there's strength in the old
                                    blacksmith yet."
                              
                              "I'll warrant that from the way you make the
                                    chips fly. As I came up I was thinking how we used to watch you
                                    at the anvil. You were the strongest man on the plantation. I
                                    should n't wonder if you could give any of them a hard
                                    tussle yet."
                              "They was not a bhoy in all Ulster, Oirish or Scotch, who
                                    could put me on my back when I was a lad, Charles. But
                                    that's gone by. Barnaby has the strength I had in me
                                    best days, though, an' is a thought quicker. As fer the
                                    land, the valey'll settle up soon, if the Frenchers
                                    an' Injuns'll lave us be. Then we'll
                                    be after havin' a market for our crops."
                              "You seem happy enough here now," Randolph
                                    ventured.
                              " We are that. Me little bhoy here's me partner
                                    an' kapes m'cheerful. Me son an'
                                    Ellen have but one throuble."
                              "What is that?"
                              "Her folks," the old man said, lowering his voice
                                    so that the child, who was playing with the hound, might not
                                    hear. "Mind ye, they're not after
                                    regrettin' nothin'; but 't is human
                                    nature she should want to get reconciled. It troubles me son
                                    because it's him that stands in the way. I'm
                                    not for blamin' her. The major's a grand man,
                                    an' her mother's a grand woman. 'Tis
                                    natural they should feel as they do. You will raymimber that I
                                    was agin it mesilf. I seed the trouble that
                                    'u'd come from it. Howsomever, the match
                                    itself's turned out well. Look at that bhoy! Did ye
                                    iver see his aquil now? I hope it'll all be made
                                    sthraight in His good toime. They's good stuff in me
                                    bhoy, if I do be sayin' it that should
                                    n't."
                              "You have every reason in the world to be proud of
                                    him," Randolph said warmly. "I'm not
                                    sorry I helped them across the Potomac."
                              A look of pride came into the old man's face.
                                    "I'm prayin' the day'll come
                                    when even Major Richard Caryof
                                    Dunstan Hall'll not be ashamed of him. I may be in me
                                    grave, but it'll come."
                              Randolph and the boy presently walked to where Barnaby, Senior, was
                                    plowing. The ground had never before been broken and was full of
                                    stumps and roots, but the soil was a rich black and promised an
                                    abundant barvest. A flock of blackbirds were greedily gathering
                                    up the uncovered worms. When Randolph and the boy came up, the
                                    ploughman paused to chat with them, and pointed out the land
                                    that he hoped to clear and bring under cultivation during the
                                    next few years.
                              "'T is a grand work such men as you are
                                    in," said Randolph, fired by the thought of what these
                                    pioneers were doing. "The governor and burgesses at
                                    Williamsburg think it's they who are making history.
                                    But the men of the Borderland are doing the deeds which
                                    historians will chronicle."
                              "If that's so, it'll kinder even up
                                    things," Barnaby said drily. "'T aint
                                    much chroniclin' we get now. We're naught but
                                    Buckskins."
                              "Daddy, see that man!" the boy exclaimed.
                              "Where, son?"
                              "Vere!" and he pointed toward an approaching
                                    horseman.
                              "Sure, you have the eyes!" said the father
                                    proudly. "You'll be a prime woodsman when
                                    you're a man."
                              The horseman came up at a brisk trot and drew rein. He was roughly
                                    dressed, but rode a fine Virginia thoroughbred.
                              "Be either of ye Mr. Charles Randolph?" he
                                    asked.
                              "I am Charles Randolph."
                              "Hyer is a letter for ye, then," he said, and,
                                    fumbling in his pocket, drew forth the missive.
                              Randolph took the letter and read it hurriedly. As he did so, a
                                    look of eager excitement came into his face.
                              
                              "Hurrah, 't is from George!" he cried.
                                    "He reached Williamsburg safely, and writes that the
                                    French reply was deemed so unsatisfactory that Dinwiddie is
                                    determined to uphold our title by force of arms. The burgesses
                                    have voted ten thousand pounds, and a company of traders and
                                    borderers have been sent under Captain Treat to the Forks of the
                                    Ohio to complete and hold the fort began there. Five other
                                    companies are being raised. George is lieutenant-colonel, and
                                    Joshua Fry, my old teacher of the mathematics in the college, is
                                    colonel. George tenders me the captaincy of a company and urges
                                    you, Barnaby, to accept a lieutenancy. 'Our orders are
                                    sufficiently aggressive,' he says, 'and we may
                                    have an opportunity for another interview with Captain
                                    R.' Certes, the world has been moving these two months.
                                    God save King George! Long life to the burgesses and the Scotch
                                    governor!"
                              
                              "Don't go 'way again, daddy!
                                    don't leave your little boy again!" little
                                    Barnaby cried tearfully, when he understood the purport of the
                                    letter. And he clasped his chubby arms about his
                                    father's legs. "Are you goin'
                                    'way again, daddy? The Injuns might get you,daddyl
                                    Don't go!"
                              The father was scarcely less affected. "It grieves me to
                                    the bottom of me soul--the thought of leavin' me boy
                                    an' home!" he said to Randolph, as he raised
                                    the child in his arms. "But I suppose it's me
                                    duty to go. If we don't dhrive the murderin'
                                    divils back to Canaday, they'll be for raisin'
                                    all the Injuns, an' then be after crossin' the
                                    mountains and treatin' us like they did the folks on
                                    the Youghiogheny."
                              Randolph wisely forbore advising either way. But Barnaby had the
                                    blood of two fighting races in his veins. His ancestors had
                                    decided for him.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER V
                              QUEBEC MEETS JAMESTOWN
                              UPON a narrow grass-covered valley that lay
                                    between high rugged bills, dusk was falling. In the camp beside
                                    the little creek that meandered tbrough the valley, men clad in
                                    hunting-shirts--soldier and yet not soldiers--were eating their
                                    evening meal and cursing the pestiferous mosquitoes that swarmed
                                    about, singing their war songs in the gloom.
                              Behind that little army--if a few score men may be called an
                                    army--stretched wastes of cliffs and crags up lifting their
                                    eternal foreheads to the winds, the sunshine, and the rains;
                                    steep ascents cumbered with cyclopean blocks of stone and strewn
                                    with daphnes heavy with purple white blooms; forests where the
                                    great trees towered aloft till their separate tops were lost in
                                    the tangled canopy above, while rank underbrush and rotting logs
                                    choked the spaces between the trunks. Ahead lay endless leagues
                                    of lonely, wolf-haunted woodland, that covered hills and
                                    mountains from crest to river-bed and rolled in somber billows
                                    of interminable green to the distant Mississippi and beyond.
                                    Through the gray arches of that forest men must walk in a kind
                                    of midday gloaming, through an atmosphere now dank and musty
                                    with the smell of decaying leaves and logs, now fragrant with
                                    the flowers of tulip trees, locusts, grape-vines, honeysuckle,
                                    and wild roses.
                              Down the valley through the tall waving grass hurried a little knot
                                    of men. Upon reaching the camp, they paused beside a fire before
                                    which sat the Envoy to Fort Le Bœuf.
                              
                              "Lieutenant Currin, what have you to report?"
                                    asked Washington, not without eagerness.
                              Barnaby dropped the butt of his rifle to the ground and leaned upon
                                    the weapon.
                              "Colonel Washington," said he, "we
                                    didn't find so much as a footprint of the imps, but
                                    this Injun runner has news."
                              He pointed to a free-limbed son of the wilderness, clad in full
                                    panoply of war.
                              "Brother, what tidings do you bring? " asked
                                    Washington, addressing the warrior.
                              The warrior stepped forward into the firelight. The flames lit up
                                    his painted sinewy body and the barbaric silver ornaments about
                                    his arms and in his ears.
                              "Tanacharison, whom you call the Half-King, and others of
                                    your red brothers lie camped at the great spring on the
                                    mountain," he said gravely. "Today we came
                                    upon the trail of Onontio's warriors. Some of our
                                    warriors followed it and found them hidden in a deep
                                    valley."
                              "And what says my brother, the Half-King?"
                              "His message is: Let the Long Knives join him in the
                                    darkness and attack together."
                              "How many Frenchmen are them?"
                              " The runner indicated on his fingers thirty-two.
                              For some time the young commander sat silently looking into the
                                    fire, as though he hoped to find there the answer to his
                                    problem.
                              "Their weakness explains why they have hung about us so
                                    long without attacking," said Captain Randolph
                                    presently. "Doubtless they expect
                                    reinforcements."
                              Captain Van Braam crushed a mosquito that had alighted on his fat
                                    nose. Then he took a long pull at his great pipe. "Dose
                                    Frenchmens are de most opliging beobles," hesaid sagely. "It pegins to look
                                    as if ve might vat ve came for find vidout so far going as ve
                                    expected."
                              "'T is a grave responsibility--a grave
                                    responsibility, gentlemen," said Washington, awakening
                                    from his reverie. "The peace of two nations, perhaps of
                                    the world, is at stake. It lies with us to precipitate the
                                    confict. If we remain passive, our Indian allies will think we
                                    are afraid; and our enemies will wait only for a favorable
                                    opportunity."
                              He paused and glanced inquiringly at the other officers as if
                                    inviting their opinions.
                              "Ambassadors travel upon the open way; they do not lie
                                    hidden in thickets," said Randolph, with decision.
                                    "We know there are Frenchmen in this region capable of
                                    any treachery. Already they have seized our fort at the Forks of
                                    the Ohio."
                              Van Braam nodded his head, and other oficers muttered approval of
                                    the sentiment.
                              "So be it, gentlemen," said the young commander,
                                    a look of resolution coming into his face. "We will
                                    cross the Rubicon. With the help of God we will strike a blow
                                    and teach these skulking invaders a lesson. Instead of waiting
                                    to be overwhelmed, we will surround them and summon them to
                                    surrender. If they resist, let theirs be the
                                    consequences!"
                              A plan was quickly formed. The least hardy of the troops were left
                                    to guard the ammunition and baggage. With forty picked men,
                                    Washington set out to follow the Indian guide to the
                                    Half-King's camp.
                              "I dread the thrip more than the scrimmage at the end of
                                    it," said Barnaby to Randolph, just as the march began.
                                    "'T is a rough road to travel even in the
                                    daytime; it'll be hell at night!"
                              A heavy spring rain had begun to fall, and not a ray of light came
                                    down from the murky heavens to light theirpath. Trees, bushes, moots, and stones
                                    impeded the way. The rain pattered dismally upon the leaves, and
                                    from afar came the occasional howl of a wolf, the hoot of an
                                    owl, or the scream of a cougar. The men bumped into each other
                                    or into trees, or slipped on wet slopes and tumbled downward,
                                    swearing softly, on the soaking, leafy carpet of the forest.
                                    Never was a great war precipitated under stranger
                                    circumstances.
                              In the gray dawn they reached the camp of their alies. The
                                    Half-King and a score of warriors, all armed, painted, and
                                    dressed, or rather undressed, for war, like so many individual
                                    nightmares, received them with guttural exclamations of
                                    satisfaction.
                              "Conotocarious must be an owl to journey on such a
                                    night," said the sachem. "We have found the
                                    rattlesnake, brother. Shall we wait and let him strike
                                    us?"
                              "Let us crush him with a club ere he has time!"
                                    was Washington's answer.
                              "Listen then, brother. We will destroy him while the
                                    morning air makes him sleepy and slow of movement."
                                    Making a sketch on the ground with the point of a stick, he
                                    continued: "He lies thus in a valley two miles away.
                                    Let the Long Knives attack on this side, while their red
                                    brothers fall upon the other."
                              The plan seemed good. Two Indian scouts were sent in advance. The
                                    Virginians and their red allies followed Indian file along the
                                    mountainside through the dense laurel thickets.
                              "What will come of this, think you?" whispered
                                    Barnaby to Randolph, as they stole through the forest.
                              Well might such a question be asked. One of the critical moments of
                                    history was at hand. Quebec and Jamestown were met on the slope
                                    of Laurel Hill. The peace of the world was about to be broken.
                                    The grandest stakeever contended
                                    for as aprise of victory was about to be put to hazard.
                              "God knows!" said Randolph, awed by the thought
                                    of what they were about to do. "Have a care of
                                    yourself," he added, laying a friendly hand on the
                                    other's arm, for he thought of the cabin in the
                                    clearing.
                              "Sure!" replied the Irishman, returning the
                                    pressure. "An' don't you try no
                                    foolishness that'll make me the captain of the
                                    company!"
                              Presently the Half-King and his warriors, save one who remained
                                    with the white men to act as guide, filed off to the left. The
                                    Virginians crept steadily onward down the mountainside until
                                    some of the foremost came out upon a ledge of rock overlooking a
                                    little valley. A stone, dislodged by a careless foot, went
                                    tumbling down the slope. At the sound a man clad in uniform of
                                    white with black facings started up from a log and cast a
                                    hurried glance about him.
                              "Qui vive!" he called, not
                                    perceiving the figures peering down upon him.
                              "Surrender, in the name of King George!" shouted
                                    Van Braam in French.
                              The sentinel looked upward and saw his enemies. "Aux armes! aux armes! les Anglais!"
                                    he shrieked, and, instead of complying with the summons, slipped
                                    behind a tree.
                              Instantly the valley behind him was a scene of animation. Half-clad
                                    forms came tumbling out of improvised shelters of bark and leafy
                                    boughs, and, seizing upon weapons, sank behind logs and trees;
                                    while two voices shouted out sharp hurried orders. It was
                                    evident that there would be no surrender unless it was forced,
                                    and that in a moment the advantage of surprise would be
                                    lost.
                              
                               "Fire!" shouted Washington, himself setting the
                                    example.
                              A volley of rifle-shots rang out from along the ledge. Three or
                                    four Frenchmen were seen to fall, but the survivors responded in
                                    kind, and a Virginian standing near Randolph dropped his rifle
                                    and went tumbling over the ledge. A moment later a shrill
                                    quavering whoop sounded from up the valley, and Half-King and
                                    his warriors poured in a heavy volley. Surprised and taken
                                    between two fires, some of the French threw down their guns and
                                    called for quarter.
                              "Forward!" ordered Washington.
                              In a confused manner the men scrambled down the ledge, with
                                    Washington, Van Braam, Randolph, and Barnaby leading. A number
                                    of shots were fired at them; one or two men fell wounded; but
                                    the rest rushed on and began disarming their opponents. Some
                                    resisted. A hand-to-hand struggle took place. A Canadian ran up
                                    behind Barnaby and struck with his clubbed rifle; but Randolph
                                    turned the weapon aside with his sword, and then, threatening
                                    the Canadian with the point, forced him to yield. By this time
                                    the fight was over, save at one point down the valley, where a
                                    single Frenchmaln was defending himself against four
                                    Virginians.
                              Randolph saw at a glance that it was Reparti. The giant captain was
                                    but half dressed; his gun was empty; the blood was fowing down
                                    his face from a wound in his head. His opponents had clubbed
                                    their guns; but with his sword he threatened first one and then
                                    the other with wonderful agility, retreating the while, and kept
                                    all at bay.
                              "Take him alive!" shouted Randolph, hurrying
                                    toward the scene of encounter. The Canadian heard the voice and
                                    seemed to recognize it. With a yell of defiance he rushed at one
                                    of his antagonists and ran him through the body. Before he could
                                          clearhis weapon, the three
                                    other Virgnians closed in and grappled with him. All four went
                                    crashing to the grund. For a moment it seemed that Repari was
                                    inevitably taken, for the men who had seized him were sinewy
                                    frontiersmen, accustomed to the rough and tumble encounters of
                                    the border. Bu they were no match for the strongest man in all
                                    New France. With a roar like that of a bull of Bashan, the
                                    Frenchman rose to his feet, hurled one of his antagonists down
                                    the slope, dashed another against a tree, and, seizing a rile,
                                    brought the stock down with withering force upon the head of the
                                    third. Randolph, Barnaby, and a dozen others came running up;
                                    but, throwing the barrel of the broken weapon at the nearest,
                                    Reparti sprang with the quickness of a panther into a thicket,
                                    and, heedless of a volley of shots, dashed off through the
                                    forest, shouting back as he went:
                              "Je m'en irai, mais je
                                          reviendrai!--I go, but I shall come
                                    again!"
                              A dozen Virginians leaped after him, but soon all returned.
                              "We 'uns mought jist as well try to ketch a wild
                                    hoss!" said the most persistent of them apologetically
                                    to Randolph.
                              Of all the Frenchmen, Reparti alone had escaped. Ten of their
                                    number lay dead among the trees, and ere Washington had time to
                                    interfere, as many scalps were dangling from the belts of
                                    Half-King's warriors. Quebec and Jamestown had met, and
                                    for the moment Jamestown was victor. It was a triumphant moment;
                                    and yet, as Randolph looked down upon the fallen, he could not
                                    help reflecting that, though Frenchmen and enemies, they were
                                    the countrymen of Alfrede de Saint-Pierre.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER VI
                              THE LISTENER
                              MONTHS had come and gone. The children of the
                                    wilderness had rallied beneath the fleur-de-lis; and to the
                                    beating of a single drum the little band we left victorious on
                                    the slope of Laurel Hill had sadly taken up their homeward march
                                    along the wilderness road from Fort Necessity, leaving not an
                                    English banner floating in the vast Ohio Valley on which they
                                    turned their backs. Reparti had mde good his boast; but it had
                                    been given to that defeated and dispirited band to strike the
                                    first blow in a conflict which was to be fought out, not only in
                                    the forests of America, but on the plains of Germany, in far
                                    away Bengal, and on most of the Seven Seas--a war that was to
                                    settle the long mooted question of colonial and commercial
                                    supremacy, was to decide the mastery of the North American
                                    continent, and was to prepare the way for another war, still
                                    more important in the annals of mankind, in which their young
                                    leader was to be the central figure.
                              The summer had drawn to a close, and the verdure of the savannahs
                                    and of the forest had undergone an ominous transformation.
                                    Touched by the late September frosts, the wilderness glowed like
                                    a bed of giant tulips; and along the lonely banks of creeks and
                                    rivers the painted foliage, brightened by the autumnal sun,
                                    reflcted its colors in the dusky water below. The falling leaves
                                    covered the earth with a golden fleece more wonderful thanthat sought by Jason and the
                                    Argonauts; the summer birds were taking their southward light,
                                    while long files of wild fowl from the lonely lakes and fens of
                                    the magic Northland were beginning to stream across the sky. Yet
                                    the air was still mild and pleasant, and only now and then did a
                                    gust of chill wind give added warning that a melancholy change
                                    was at hand.
                              On an uprooted tree which lay in fallen majesty upon the river bank
                                    a short distance above Fort Le Bœuf, sat Alfrede de
                                    Saint-Pierre, pensively gaing at this autumnal magnificence.
                                    Presently, after a glance about her, she slipped from her bodice
                                    a letter and read as follows: 
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  "FORT NECESSITY, Virginia,
                                                  "4 July, 1754.
                                                  
                                                  "MY DEAR MADEMOISELLE, --
                                                  This will be delivered to you by Captain Van
                                                  Braam, who is to act as a Hostage for the return
                                                  of certain Prisoners taken by us--Major Stobo
                                                  being the other.
                                                  "I can almost find it in my heart to
                                                  envy him; for, sooner probably than even you
                                                  imagined, your Prophecy has come true, and
                                                  Yesterday I was forced to yield to the Valor of
                                                  your Countrymen but without having in Prospect the
                                                  Consolation which I mentioned at our last Meeting.
                                                  I shall not trouble you with the Details of our
                                                  Undoing, for these doubtless you will have learned
                                                  Elsewhere before this reaches you. We can only
                                                  plead fortune de guerre.
                                                  "I foresee, Mademoiselle, a long and
                                                  bloody War between our Nations. The first Years of
                                                  this War may bring great Suffering and Trouble to
                                                  our Frontier Inhabitants. I think I need not ask
                                                  you to do what you can to soften the Horrors that
                                                  the Employment of the Savages will inevitably
                                                  involve and to alleviate the hard Lot of any
                                                  Captives who may be brought your Way. I promise,
                                                  on my Part, to do all that I can for any French
                                                  Prisoners whom we may be fortunate enough to
                                                  capture.
                                                  
                                                  "Please pay my Compliments to your
                                                  good Father, the Chevalier. I need scarcely add
                                                  that I send my best Wishes to you also. I think
                                                  often of you and of the great Kindness that
                                                  secured our Safety. 'T is my bitterest
                                                  Regret that Circumstances have made us Enemies for
                                                  the Present. My sole Consolation is that I still
                                                  recall the Biblical Injunction and trust that you
                                                  have not forgotten it. Adieu, Mademoiselle. These
                                                  are perilous Times; and when I think of you almost
                                                  alone in this great Wilderness, I pray that good
                                                  Angels may have you in their Keeping.
                                                  
                                                  "Your most humble
                                                  and obedient Servant,
                                                  "CHARLES RANDOLPH,
                                                  "Captain in the Provincial
                                                  Forces of Virginia."
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                               As she finished the last lines, she heard footsteps, and, looking
                                    up, perceived the chevalier approaching along the path that led
                                    from the fort. In a twinkling the letter disappeared from sight,
                                    and she was beckoning him to a seat beside her.
                              "Dreaming?" he asked, as he sat down.
                              "Of this adorable beauty," she answered airily,
                                    with a wave of her hand at the golden forest. "What a
                                    pity that in a few short days all will have vanishedI Piercing
                                    raw winds will drive away this dreamy haze; the shriveled leaves
                                    will be snatched from the trees; chill rains will be drizling
                                    down upon the gloomy clearing; snowfakes will come sifting
                                    through the bare treetops; the Indians will be shivering in
                                    their tattered blankets; and the long and dreary winter will be
                                    upon us. Oh, father, why cannot spring and autumn last
                                    fomever!"
                              The chevalier smiled aquiet smile. "Before that change
                                    comes, Alfrede, would you like to be far from this
                                    wilderness?" he asked.
                              The girl looked hard into his face. "Father, quickly! What
                                    is it?" she demanded imperiously, seizing him by the
                                    arm.
                              
                              The chevalier caught a leaf that was floating past them, and looked
                                    with feigned interest at its gorgeous coloring. "If you
                                    could have one wish, petite, what would you
                                    wish for?" he asked, with provoking slowness.
                              "That you should be restored to a position suited to your
                                    talents, mon cher papa," she cried,
                                    without hesitation.
                              The father's face glowed. He kissed his daughter.
                                    " How good you are, ma
                                    chérie!" he cried. "Eh
                                          bien, the wish is granted--that is, if I deserve a
                                    better position. I have been summoned to Quebec. I am to be
                                    second in command next year about Lakes Champlain and
                                    Sacrament."
                              "A la bonne heure! That will be
                                    glorious! I mean our going to Quebec. But I shall dread the day
                                    when the campaign opens, and you must leave me. I am glad that
                                    now real danger threatens, even your enemies dare no longer
                                    leave you buried in the wilderness."
                              "Yes, it solves a problem," he said thoughtfully.
                                    "I could not bear to have you leave me; you are all I
                                    have, petite, to keep me from gloomy thoughts.
                                    Yet it troubled me to have you stay. Not even a party of English
                                    envoys will visit the fort this year. You would miss that
                                    diversion."
                              "Father!l" she cried, blushing. "But
                                    when do we start?"
                              "It is all arranged. You are to leave for
                                    Presqu'isle day after tomorrow. Unfortunately I must
                                    visit on my way a Delaware village far to the eastward. But I
                                    will send a squad of soldiers and Sergeant Gerard to guard you,
                                    and you will have Jeanne and Marie for companions. I will join
                                    you there, and we will go by canoe to Niagara and so on as we
                                    come up."
                              "Doubtless I shall have a gay time in Quebee--Toi- nette la Vallière seems to
                                    have," Alfrede remarked presently. "She speaks
                                    of so many conquests that I fear she is fast becoming a
                                    coquette. Yet I shall miss the woods sometimes. I have been
                                    happy here with you, only I grew tired of the long winter. I
                                    would rather be with you here than be the toast of all the beaux
                                    of London and Paris."
                              "Demoiselles must have their opportunities," said
                                    the chevalier teasingly. "They must win the admiration
                                    of others besides sachems and bushrangers. In Quebec are many
                                    gay cavaliers."
                              "And think you it will be in Quebec that I shall meet the
                                    Prince you torment me about?" she asked
                                    quizzically.
                              "Sans doute. 'Who is the
                                    ravishing young creature who carries herself with the air of
                                    awood nymph?' will be the cry when you appear. The
                                    beaux, young and old, will swarm around to pay their homage like
                                    flies around a honey pot. Hélas! I shall soon
                                    lose my Alfrede, I fear."
                              "Nonsense, father, you are silly sometimes!" she
                                    cried gayly.
                              "'T is well on another account that you are
                                    going," he said more soberly. "Behind the
                                    seeming calm of this fascinating wildernes lurks danger. Force
                                    is the only law her subjecs obey. Even now we know not what eyes
                                    may be upon us. More than once have I lain awake at night, ma chérie, thinking of what might befall you
                                    were some accident to strike me down. Now that war has come, the
                                    hazard is tenfold greater. The English will not rest content
                                    with their repulse. They are a slow race but determined. Did not
                                    Captain Randolph in his letter, written in the very moment of
                                    defeat, speak of a long war? Yes, they will come again; and
                                    these primeval solitudes will witness some bloody deeds, I
                                    fear."
                              "Think you it will be safer at Quebec?"
                              
                              "I trust so. New France is weak; mon
                                          Dieu, few know how weak! But for sixty years the
                                    waves of invsion have beaten against her in vain. I hope that we
                                    shall weather the storm yet again, and certainly Quebec on her
                                    frowning rock will hold out long beyond these little stockade
                                    forts in the wilderness. When she is lost, all is lost. But, a
                                    truce to prophecy! I have some affairs to which I must attend,
                                    and you will want to give directions for your
                                    packing."
                              He rose from the log, and with a courtly air gave his hand to his
                                    dughter. Then they strolled back along the forest path toward
                                    the fort, Alfrede humming one of those endless chansons à l'aviron, or boat songs, of the
                                          voyageurs, known as "The White
                                    Rose":
                              
                              
                                    "Wherever I go I never see
                                    A maiden so fair, it seems to me,
                                    As the beautiful rose of the white rose-tree.
                                    And the nightingale sings from his dusky
                                          bough:
                                    'Marry her, marry her, marry her
                                          now!
                                    The snow white maid, so fair to see,
                                    The beatiful rose of the white
                                          rose-tree.'
                              
                              
                                    "But how can I wed with the beautiful
                                          flower,
                                    The beautiful rose of the white rose tree?
                                    My father is angry, my mother is dour.
                                    Still the nightingale sings from his dusky
                                          bough:
                                    'Marry her, marry her, marry her
                                          now!
                                    The snow white maid so far to see,
                                    The beautiful rose of the white
                                                rose-tree.'"1
                              
                              
                              But the place had not been left a solitude. When the song had grown
                                    faint in the distance, an Indian warrior ' 1The song is a very free
                                          translation. One version of the original is as follows: 
                                          
                                                
                                                  "Je n'ai pas trouvé
                                                  personne
                                                
                                                
                                                  Que le rossignol chantant la belle
                                                  rose,
                                                
                                                
                                                  La belle rose du rosier blanc!
                                                
                                                
                                                  Qui me dit dans son langage
                                                
                                                
                                                  Marie-toi, car il est temps, à la
                                                  belle rose,
                                                
                                                
                                                  A la belle rose du rosier blanc!
                                                
                                                
                                                  Comment vex-tu que je me marie avec
                                                  la belle rose,
                                                
                                                
                                                  La belle rose du rosier blanc?
                                                
                                                
                                                  Mon père n'est pas content
                                                  de la belle rose,
                                                
                                                
                                                  De la belle rose du rosier
                                                  blanc!
                                                
                                                
                                                  Ni mon père, ni ma mère,
                                                
                                                
                                                  Ni aucun de mes parents,
                                                
                                                La belle
                                                  rose," and the rest.
                                          
                                    
                                    half raised himself from behind a
                                    clump of alders which grew a few paces from where the two had
                                    been seated, and, parting the branches peered exultantly after
                                    them. When they were out of sight, he stood upright and stepped
                                    into the open, disclosing a figure that was short and squat and
                                    a face that was disfigured with horrible scars.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER VII
                              IN THE WILDERNESS LODGE
                              AFTER satisfying himself that no one had seen
                                    him, the warrior set off through the forest northwestward. Gray
                                    squirrels barked at him from the tops of shaggy nut-laden
                                    hickories. Partridges whirred up from beneath his feet. A band
                                    of startled deer led by a a noble buck plunged with waving white
                                    flags into a thicket. Once a surly bear lumbered heavily across
                                    his path. He heeded none of these, but kept on with the same
                                    untiring pace mile after mile until shortly after nightfall he
                                    surmounted a hill beyond which stretched away farther than the
                                    eye could see a glimmering waste of gently heaving water.
                                    Descending the hill, he came presently to an Indian village with
                                    a few score wigwams.
                              When he entered the village, the fires over which the evening meal
                                    had been prepared had sunk into dull beds of embers; the
                                    council-house was in darkness; but in an opening among the trees
                                    there glowed a lively blaze around which a party of young braves
                                    and squaws were dancing a courting dance to the accompaniment of
                                    drum and chichikoue, while other denizens of
                                    the village were gathered about to look on. Here were tried
                                    warriors, naked save for breech-clout, fringed leggings, and
                                    moccasins, who spent their days idly smoking and laughing,
                                    playing the gambling game of plum-stones, bandying obscene
                                    jests, and telling doubtful stories of their exploits on the war
                                    trail; youthfulgallants, bedizened
                                    with all the foppery of beads, feathers, bracelets,
                                    hawk's bells, and necklaces of bear's claws,
                                    but held as yet in light esteem because they had never torn a
                                    gory trophy from the head of a fallen foe; wanton young damsels,
                                    versed in all the arts of forest coquetry, radiant with
                                    sunflower and bear's oil, with long greasy black locks,
                                    silver and copper nose and ear pendants, necklaces of beads and
                                    wampum, and rufes soiled with dirt and gaudy with vermilion;
                                    shriveled hags, with spindling shanks and the voices of screech
                                    owls; and troops of half-naked children, with beady mischievous
                                    eyes--true imps of the forest. The rising flames illumined the
                                    rough clearing and cast a red glare upon the dusky boughs of the
                                    surrounding forest and upon the barbaric ornaments, bedaubed
                                    faces, and contorted limbs of the dancers.
                              With scarce a glance at the merrymakers, the warrior stalked past
                                    them to a lodge larger than the others, and, opening the
                                    door-flap of skins, without any warning of his coming, stepped
                                    inside and squatted down upon a bearskin.
                              A single candle, one of the few articles of civilized manufacture
                                    in the lodge, lit up the interior dimly and revealed a young
                                    Indian woman hardly more than a girl, a boy just able to walk,
                                    and a giant Frenchman who was dressed in the Indian fashion and
                                    half reclined upon a buffalo robe, lazily smoking a pipe, the
                                    long stem of which was ornamented with tufts of feathers from
                                    the scarlet tanager. The woman, who had risen as the sachem
                                    entered, wore a "machicote," a sort of
                                    petticoat, of green silk, edged with a fringe of yellow, blue,
                                    and red ribbons, and over this a gay varicolored blanket of soft
                                    wool; her forearms bore heavy bracelets of gold, and in her hair
                                    was an ornament of the same metal. Her form was well moulded,
                                    her oval face was beautiful, and her movements lithe and
                                    graceful. The boy was dressed as a miniature warrior and
                                          resembledher, though his
                                    lighter skin showed that in his veins the blood of two races was
                                    commingled.
                              "Le Chat is welcome," the Frenchman said, after a
                                    moment's glance. "Sàki, set food before the
                                    sachem."
                              The squaw hastened to bring succotash, cooked venison, and
                                    bear's flesh on platters of bark, and placed the repast
                                    on the ground before the warrior. Without ceremony, he fell upon
                                    the food, using no other implements than those which nature had
                                    given him.
                              "Does my brother bring news?" asked the
                                    Frenchman, when the warrior had at last satisfed his hunger and
                                    had wiped his hands upon his blanket.
                              "Ugh!" was the answer, in tones that implied an
                                    affirmative. "The Gray-Hair and the young squaw will
                                    set forth after two risings of the sun."
                              "Know you this for more than idle chatter?" the
                                    Frenchman demanded, in tones that showed keen interest.
                              "Le Chat lay like a lynx beside the path. He heard with
                                    his own ears the Gray-Hair speak the words."
                              "How go they?"
                              "By different trails. The Gray-Hair by the village of the
                                    Delawares; the young squaw by the straight path with a squad of
                                    soldiers to guard her."
                              "Ha!" the Frenchman exclaimed, springing to his
                                    feet, "so my plan for tolling away the father on a
                                    bootless errand bids fair to succeed. Our brother, the Delaware
                                    sachem, has shown himself cunning in his message. It is a great
                                    step. But what now?"
                              For some time he stood with his shaggy brows knotted in thought.
                                    From without came the rattle of the chichrikoue, the barbaric boom of the drum, and the
                                    discordant shouts of the dancers. The woman watched him
                                    wistfully; even the impassive warrior stole a glance or two at
                                    his face.
                              
                              At last he seemed to come to resolve. Seating himself beside the
                                    sachem, he began in the Ottawa tongue to give what seemed to be
                                    directions, speaking slowly and more than once repeating what he
                                    had said. As he talked, the child lay down upon a couch of skins
                                    and quickly dropped asleep, but the young mother, seated beside
                                    him, bent forward to catch the low-spoken words, and into her
                                    eyes there presently came a look of terror. At last the sachem
                                    rose to go.
                              "A new gun and three blankets shall be the reward of each
                                    warrior," said the Frenhman, likewise rising.
                                    "At the end of another summer, if no one has wagged his
                                    tongue like a woman, the reward shall be doubled."
                              "It is well," said the sachem in French.
                                    "Le Chat understands. The words of Bras-de-Fer shall be
                                    law to him. At sunset all shall be ready."
                              Lifting the lap of skins, he silently withdrew and betook himself
                                    to his own lodge.
                              For a long time after his departure the girl sat silent; then,
                                    rising from the couch, she drew nearer the Frenchman, who was
                                    again reclining on the bufalo skin. Pointing with her hand at
                                    the child, she said in a musical voice: "Thy son
                                    sleeps."
                              "I see," the Frenchman said apathetically, and
                                    continued to fill his pipe with tobacco.
                              "Is he not growing into a fine young
                                    warrior?"
                              "No doubt." The answer still betrayed no
                                    interest.
                              "Since my lord commands at Venango instead of
                                    Presqu'isle, his son has almost forgotten his
                                    father."
                              "The path is long to the village."
                              "But the village could be moved nearer."
                              "The Long Knives are busy. Bras-de-Fer would not have them
                                    slay his son."
                              "But my lord said yesterday that the Long Knivesfeared to climb the mountains. Until a
                                    winter ago he wanted Sàki near him in time of
                                    danger."
                              The man vouchsafed no reply; a long silence fell. Then the girl
                                    asked haltingly: "What would my lord with Wah-be-gwan-nee, the White Lily?"
                              The Frenchman looked at her curiously, but said nothing.
                              "Is it that he wishes her to hoe his corn, dress his food,
                                    and bear his children?"
                              "Suppose he does?"
                              For an instant her form quivered. Then she drew nearer and looked
                                    yearningly into his face. "Has Sàki grown so old and
                                    ugly that her lord no longer cares for her? Sometimes she has
                                    thought that he found delight in her and that she was pleasing
                                    to him. He used to call her his woodland fawn, but he uses the
                                    name no more."
                              "Nay, thou art as beautiful as ever."
                               "Then why does my lord wish the pale-face
                                    squaw?"
                              It was dawning upon the Frenchman that here was a factor he had not
                                    considered, but he refleced that she was only an Indian.
                                    "Hast thou not seen that when I have worn a pair of
                                    moccasins for atime, I throw them aside and put on anew pair?
                                    Let tha bethy answer."
                              "But my lord said that Sàki is as beautiful as
                                    ever," she protested, her lips twitching pitifully.
                              "Nay, then, if thou must have the reason," said
                                    he, beginning to be exasperated with her persistence,
                                    "it is that Sàki is an Indian, une
                                          peau-rouge; the time has come when Bras-de-Fer would
                                    mate with one of his own color, and give up the life of a coureurr-de-bois."
                              " The girl was silent for a time, then resolved upon a
                                    last effort. "Dost thou remember," she began
                                    in a tone that was belied by the look of terror in her eyes,
                                    "how three summers ago thou didst first see Sàki
                                    dancing at Michilimackinac? I had been taught by the Black-Robes
                                          andwas not a wanton like the
                                    others. On the same day thou didst buy me of my father for a gun
                                    and a keg of eau-de-vie. In a birchen canoe
                                    light as the down on the breast of the humming-bird we glided
                                    over the blue water to an island where the beaches were white as
                                    the snow in midwinter and where sweet-smelling pines made
                                    ceaseless murmuring. Dost thou remember the knife which thou
                                    didst find hidden in the maiden's bosom? She meant to
                                    slay thee. On the island we reared a wigwam, and there the
                                    maiden grew to love where at first she had only feared. Sàki
                                    thou didst call her, which means love, and the time spent there
                                    was all too short. The summer passed and the winter; and when my
                                    lord came to the wigwam beside the Détroit, he heard another
                                    voice, small as that of the young bird when he asks for food.
                                    Sàki again thou didst call the mother, and swore thou wouldst
                                    never love another, not even one of thine own
                                    blood."
                              "Aye," said Reparti, laughing harshly,
                                    "but that was yesterday, when I had seen only thee.
                                    Does the young warrior mean all that he whispers in the
                                    maiden's ear in the dance? But grieve not. Thy son and
                                    thee shall not want. Perchance I shall still visit thee
                                    sometimes."
                              "Then Sàk's happiness is past. She cannot share
                                    thy love with another!" the girl cried; and, crouching
                                    down upon the floor, burst into a fit of tearless sobbing. The
                                    child, wakened by his mother's voice, added his wails
                                    to hers.
                              For a long time Reparti sat regarding the two perhaps not entirely
                                    unmoved. Once he half rose as if to go to her, but the impulse
                                    quickly passed. This was not the first time he had discontinued
                                    an inconvenient savage alliance. Presently he arose and passed
                                    out of the lodge into the night.
                              The fires had died out. The village slept. All was silence save for the mournful call of a
                                    whip-poor-will and the occasional weird cry of a loon far out
                                    upon the lake. The sky was cloudless; and the North Star, Orion,
                                    and the Pleiades looked down upon him as they still look down
                                    upon the sons of men. But his thoughts were not of these
                                    evidences of a great God's handiwork.
                              "We shall see," he muttered to the chill air,
                                    "if mademoiselle will scorn her rescuer as she scorned
                                    her suitor. If she does, she will still be in my hands. I know
                                    how to keep my warriors silent, and the allies of the English
                                    will be blamed for all. Like Sàki, she may come to love where at
                                    first she only hates and fears."
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER VII
                              THE CAPTIVES
                              THE sun rising above a wilderness of hills and
                                    forest found Alfrede de Saint Pierre upon the bastion from which
                                    nine months before she had waved adieu to the English
                                    envoys.
                               "Au revoir, my great trees, with your
                                    adorable silence, au revoir!" she
                                    cried.
                              With a last glance down the river, she threw a kiss at the golden
                                    forest in that direction, and hurried to the quarters, where old
                                    Jeanne, Marie, and a squad of four soldiers were waiting to set
                                    out. The little party, all on foot, passed through the great
                                    wooden gate of the stockade and took the forest road for
                                    Presqu'isle. The baggage had been sent ahead the day
                                    before, and their march was almost unincumbered; still the task
                                    before them was no light one, for a walk of a dozen miles over a
                                    rough road is no small undertaking for a woman, be she ever so
                                    young and vigorous.
                              But the journey had no terrors for the joyous girl. "Do
                                    not concern yourself for me, Jeanne," she said to the
                                    solicitous old bonne. "'T is
                                    you who needs commiseration. Here, give me that bag you are
                                    carrying. Ciel! I need the exercise.
                                    I'm growing stout, I fear. The prospect is
                                    delightful--the journey, I mean. When we have gone two leagues
                                    and a half, we will have our bread and a bottle of wine, rest
                                    awhile, and reach the fort happy and strong long before sunset.
                                    Is it not a good plan of campaign, Gerard?"
                              
                              The grizzled old sergeant, who had been a member of
                                    Saint-Pierre's company during all the score of years
                                    that his wife Jeanne had been a servant in the
                                    chevalier's household, looked at her admiringly.
                              "Perfect, mademoiselle. Maréchal Saxe never made a better
                                    one," he said.
                              "How content I should be if father were only with us. But
                                    our brave Gerard will keep off the wolves and bears and serpents à sonettes--ugh, how I hate to hear
                                    their rattle! There is nothing else to dread; let us enjoy our
                                    holiday. Not even the palace of Versailles approaches the beauty
                                    of the woods around us."
                              It did indeed bid fair to be a blithesome journey. The air was just
                                    cool enough to be bracing; and the narrow road, cut the previous
                                    year, led through aisles of magnificent trees, from which leaves
                                    crimsoned by the Midas-touch of frost were fluttering down to
                                    earth. Alfrede fairly bubbled over with delight, exclaiming
                                    gleefully whenever some leaf more than usually gorgeous caught
                                    her eye, and making little excursions into the woods to gather
                                    nuts, black haws, and the delicious wild grapes that grew here
                                    and thene in great profusion.
                              "Mon Dieu! Gerard," exclaimed
                                    Jeanne, when the girl was on one such excursion, "Is
                                    she not magnificent? A grand dame, yet such a child also! Each
                                    day she grows more beautiful, more charming."
                              The old soldier sighed. "If le Bon Dieu
                                    had spared our little one, I would have wished her
                                    thus," he said.
                              "Eh bien, she seems almost ours. I love
                                    her as much."
                              "And I love you--both of you, dearly! dearly!"
                                    cried the girl, slipping from out a thicket whence she had
                                    overheard their talk. "What should I do without my good
                                          bonne and my brave Gerard?"
                              "May the Saints have you in their keeping, mon enfant," said Gerard.
                              
                              "See what I have found!" the girl exclaimed,
                                    after a little pause, holding out her hands filled with plump
                                    brown chestnuts. "Are they not beauties? They call up
                                    the visit we made with father's comrade, theMarquis de
                                    Montcalm at Candiac the last autumn I had maman, Gerard. Jeanne was with us. She can tell you
                                    about the pleasant old château among the hills of Languedoc,
                                    about the mulberry trees, the olive grove, the chestnut trees!
                                    The chestnuts were falling, and we children helped to pick them.
                                    What a family there was, Jeanne!--six children, yet the good
                                    marquis had a place in his heart for each and not least of all
                                    for poor Mirète, who was sickly. I wish that all French noblemen
                                    were like him instead of being the vain idle matures who swarm
                                    about the court."
                              "'T was as you say," said Jeanne,
                                    "a charming spot, a pleasant home. The marquis and your
                                    father are what Frenchmen ought to be."
                              Talking thus, the little party entered a deep valley where the
                                    large timber was partly supplanted by thickets of bushes and
                                    noxious weeds.
                               "This is a place," said Gerard, "
                                    through which I should tremble to pass if we had enemies to
                                    fear. But since there are none within a hundred
                                    leagues--"
                              He did not finish. He was never even able toremember what his last
                                    words had been, for at that instant a score of hideously painted
                                    savages sprang with frightful yells out of the thicket on both
                                    sides of the road.
                              "Les Iroquois!" shrieked the
                                    soldiers.
                              There was no time for any concerted action. Gerard managed to knock
                                    one of his assailants prostrate with a blow of his fist, but ere
                                    he could draw his sword three others sprang upon him and
                                    overpowered him. While the other soldiers were endeavoring to
                                    cock their heavy fusils, they, too, were hurled to the ground;
                                    their weapons were tornfrom their
                                    grasp; their hands were tied tightly with thongs of rawhide. The
                                    women were then seized. Before the travelers had time to realize
                                    that they had been attacked, all were prisoners.
                              "What would you with us?" Alfrede demanded, first
                                    in French and then in English, not forgetting even in that
                                    dreadful moment that she was a soldier's daughter.
                                    "There is no war declared between Onontio and the
                                    warriors of the Long House. Why then do you seize
                                    Onontio's children?"
                              But the captors pretended not to understand. They stripped the
                                    soldiers of what few objects of value they possessed, and some
                                    had greedily begun to handle with greasy fingers the chain of
                                    gold which Alfrede wore, when a sharp rebuke from the chief of
                                    the party caused them to give over their thievish
                                    intentions.
                              The chief then made signs for the prisoners to follow him, adding
                                    emphasis to the command by laying his hand upon his tomahawk.
                                    Resistance was out of the question, so, with heavy hearts, the
                                    prisoners quitted the road along which they had just been
                                    traveling so blithely, and in single file followed their
                                    captives through the forest eastward.
                              "Oh, mon Dieu! mon Dieu!"
                                    moaned the wretched old sergeant, "to think that I
                                    should have allowed ourselves to be surprised thus!
                                    Mademoiselle, I was unworthy of your good father's
                                    trust!"
                              "Do not let that weigh upon your mind, good
                                    Gerard," the girl replied bravely. "The fault
                                    was not yours nor any one's. God in His inscrutable
                                    wisdom has decreed that we should suffer; let us yield ourselves
                                    to His will and blame no one. Perhaps they will merely keep us
                                    prisoners until we can be redeemed."
                              Gerard shook his grizzled head sadly. "Hélas! mademoiselle, it is evident that you do not
                                    know the Iroquois," he
                                    said. "Since the Sieur de Champlain fought with them
                                    four generations ago they have never let slip an opportunity to
                                    be revenged upon a Frenchman. The demons of hell are saints of
                                    heaven compared with them!"
                              But Alfrede was determined not to despair. "We will pray
                                    to the Vigin to soften their hearts," she said
                                    hopefully. "Perhaps they will not be so cruel. I have
                                    heard that of late years they have lost some of their old hatred
                                    of us."
                              Her words set Gerard to thinking, "'T is true
                                    that these warriors do not behave so cruelly as Iroquois usually
                                    do," he said reflectively. "'T is
                                    their usual custom immediately to gnaw or beat off a
                                    prisoner's finger-nails as the first step in the
                                    torture. Thus far--"
                              But the chief gave him a vigorous prod with the muzzle of his gun
                                    and by unmistakable signs ordered him to keep silent. There was
                                    no prospect of gaining anything by persisting, so the old
                                    soldier obeyed. For two or three hours the prisoners walked in
                                    almost total silence through the forest. At last the party
                                    reached a spring that bubbled out of a rocky hillside, and the
                                    chief threw himself down upon the ground as a signal that his
                                    warriors might refresh themselves. To lessen the danger of
                                    discovery, they lighted no fires, but made a meal of some smoked
                                    bear meat they carried with them and of the provisions captured
                                    with the prisoners, allowing the latter to partake of everything
                                    but the wine, which they divided only among themselves, cursing
                                    meanwhile because there was not more. The meal finished, the
                                    captors held a short conference, at the conclusion of which six
                                    warriors, including the chief, detached themselves from the rest
                                    and approached Alfrede.
                              "Venez donc," the chief
                                    ordered, for the moment forgetting himself and speaking in
                                    French. And he laid a tawny hand upon her arm.
                              
                              "Surely you cannot mean to separate us!" she
                                    cried, for the first time on the verge of tears.
                              But again the Indians pretended not to understand.
                              "Let me stay with my friends," she pleaded,
                                    throwing herself upon her knees. "My father, the
                                    Chevalier de Saint-Pierre, will reward you! God himself will
                                    reward you!"
                              It was useless. With a gesture of impatience, the chief pulled the
                                    girl to her feet with a violence that made her cry out with
                                    pain.
                              "May le diable fly away with
                                    you!" cried Gerard, fiercely straining at the thongs
                                    which rendered him helpless. "If for one moment I had a
                                    fusil in my hands, you would die for that, were I burned the
                                    next instant!"
                              His struggles and protests, however, were as useless as were the
                                    lamentations of his good wife and the angry cries of Marie.
                                    Seeing that resistance was hopeless, Alfrede followed her
                                    captors, calling back as she disappeared among the trees:
                              "Adieu! adieu! May God care for youl Should you ever see
                                    my father, give him a daughter's love and tell him that
                                    my last thoughts were of him."
                              When they were out of hearing of the other captives, her captors
                                    talked freely in a language the girl did not understand, but
                                    obstinately refused to answer any of the questions she put to
                                    them. Knowing the savage reputation of the Iroquois, she gave
                                    herself up as one without hope, and fervently prayed that
                                    nothing worse than death might befall her.
                              Hour after hour they journeyed thus through the magic forest. The
                                    shadows of the great trees lengthened. In the denser fastnesses
                                    the twilight beneath the over-arching tops grew ever deeper. At
                                    last the party came to a rapid creek upon whose bank was a
                                    little clearing in whichstood the
                                    deserted remains of some hastily constructed wigwams.
                              Here the arriors halted. At first Alfrede beieved they had decided
                                    to spend the night upon the spot. She was cheered by a faint
                                    hope that perhaps she might be followed and rescued. But, after
                                    resting and talking for some time, her captors, when the sun was
                                    still the breadth of a man's hand above the horizon,
                                    began to pile dry branches about a near-by sapling.
                              There was no mistaking the meaning of suh preparations. The captive
                                    fell upon her knees and raised her fair young face to the
                                    sky.
                              Presently the chief approached and seized her by the arm. She had
                                    bravely done her best to prepare herself to meet her fate with
                                    fortitude, but she was only a young girl to whom life was sweet
                                    and dear. Instinctively she resisted and uttered a low and
                                    piteous cry. Her terror had no effect upon the hardened savage.
                                    Grasping with relentless hand her long flowing hair, he began to
                                    drag her toward the stake.
                              But he was destined never to accomplish his purpose. Scarcely had
                                    the helpless girl taken one step to follow him, when from a
                                    neighboring thicket came the whip-like report of a rifle. The
                                    iron hand loosened its brutal grasp; its owner staggered
                                    backward, a tiny stream of blood gushing from his painted
                                    breast; the fierce expression in his eyes changed to one of dull
                                    vacancy; and with a hollow groan he fell upon the crimson leaves
                                    at the feet of the captive.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER IX
                              'TWIXT THE CUP AND THE LIP
                              THE band stood aghast at this unexpected
                                    visitation upon one of their number. They had scarcely time to
                                    glance in the direction from which the fatal bullet had come
                                    when three other shots rang out, and two more savages fell
                                    writhing in death agonies.
                              "Have at the bloody devils!" shouted a voice
                                    which Alfrede recognized with a cry of glad surprise; and a
                                    lithe form clad in a fringed hunting-shirt came leaping into the
                                    open. He was closely followed by three frontiersmen, similarly
                                    attired, all wildly brandishing their weapons.
                              At this apparition one of the remaining warriors darted away into
                                    the forest in flight swift and silent as an eagle's
                                    shadow. The two others, more courageous,sprang toward their
                                    guns, which they had incautiously placed against a tree a little
                                    distance from the sapling. The first to secure his weapon was
                                    almost a giant in size; but, had he been the Prince of Darkness
                                    himself, he must have gone down before the fiery onrush of the
                                    enraged young leader. One furious thrust of the white
                                    man's sword he managed to turn aside with his gun,
                                    which he was endeavoring to cock; but a second caught him fair
                                    in the breast, and he sank to earth a dead man.
                              "Take that, ye red varmint!" exclaimed a second
                                    rescuer, bringing the barrel of his heavy rifle down upon the
                                    head of the remaining warrior.
                              
                              
                                    "'You see that Virginians are
                                          not always made prisoners, Mademoiselle,' said
                                          he, smiling."
                                    Page85
                              
                              
                              The other borderers sprang away in pursuit of the fugitive, but
                                    soon gave up the chase as hopeless. Meanwhile their leader ran
                                    to where Alfrede, unaccustomed to scenes of bloodshed and
                                    overcome by the sudden change in her fortune, was swaying like a
                                    willow in the breeze. Taking her in his arms, he encouraged and
                                    comforted her with such success that presently the color came
                                    back into her face. She gently tried to free herself. A bolder
                                    man might have deemed further comforting necessary, but the
                                    young soldier yielded to what seemed to be her wish.
                              "You see that Virginians are not always made prisoners,
                                    mademoiselle," said he, smiling.
                              "I thank God for it, Captain Randolph!" she cried
                                    unsteadily. "You were just in time to save me. Heaven
                                    was good to me. But how did you happen to be here so
                                    opportunely?"
                              "Providence willed it," he said happily.
                                    "Lieutenant Currin and I, with these two scouts, are on
                                    a reconnoitering expedition. This morning from across the river
                                    we inspected the defenses of Fort Le Bœuf. We saw you upon the
                                    bastion, and I swear that I would have given a thousand pounds
                                    to have crossed the river to you."
                              "Make it five thousand, an' you'll be
                                    nearer the truth, Charles," drawled Barnaby, who, after
                                    making sure that the barrel of his rifle had not been bent by
                                    its collision with the Indian's head, had been watching
                                    the little scene with a quizzical look on his face.
                                    "It's a fact, miss, I had to hold him--lay
                                    violent hands on my superior officer--to kape him from
                                    swimmin' over!"
                              The girl smiled. "Ciel!" she
                                    exclaimed, with a return of her accustomed roguery,
                                    "Captain Randolph must be very extravagant to be
                                    willing to pay so much for so little!"
                              "I did not know then that you were about to leave the fort
                                    and that I should soon have the opportuity of talk-ing to you without its costing a
                                    sixpence," said Randolph, with a fierce look at his
                                    lieutenant.
                              "But how did you learn of my captivity?" she
                                    inquired, with interest.
                              Randolph explained at considerable length that Barnaby had
                                    discovered the trail of the Iroquois and that while they were
                                    examining the evidences of the struggle a frantic young squaw
                                    had appeared who said that Mademoiselle Alfrede had been taken
                                    prisoner. The Virginians had followed the trail to where the
                                    captors ate their midday meal. There the squaw had discovered
                                    signs showing which party Alfrede was with, and had urged them
                                    to follow and rescue her, saying that she knew where some of her
                                    own people were camped in the direction taken by the other
                                    party, that she would find them and send them in pursuit.
                              "I pray that she may succeed," Alfrede said
                                    earnestly. "But I wonder who she could have been. It
                                    was not Marie, for she is old; besides, she was one of the
                                    captives."
                              "No," said Randolph, "it was not Marie.
                                    She was young and beautiful. Her last words were that we must by
                                    all means rescue you before sunset."
                              At this juncture Barnaby stepped forward and touched his cap
                                    apologetically. "I beg pardon for
                                    interruptin'," he said; "but
                                    don't you think, captain, we ought to be after
                                    movin'? That imp who escaped may be for
                                    bringin' some more of the spalpeens on
                                    us."
                              "'Tis a wise suggestion, but what are we to do
                                    with Mademoiselle?" said Randolph, much puzzled.
                              "She is now your prisoner. Take her with you to
                                    Virginny." There was a twinkle in the
                                    speaker's eyes that was not lost on either the captain
                                    or Alfrede.
                              "That is a still wiser suggestion," said
                                    Randolph, blush-ing and not daring
                                    to meet the girl's eyes. "What say you to the
                                    suggestion, mademoiselle?"
                              "But what would my poor father do?" cried the
                                    girl, in what Randolph took to be great alarm.
                              Barnaby failed to be much impressed.
                              "True. Of course, I was only jesting," said
                                    Randolph hurriedly. "We will escort you wherever you
                                    wish, mademoiselle. You were on your way to
                                    Presqu'isle, were you not? Do you prefer that
                                    post?"
                              "I fear that I shall be leading you into fresh
                                    danger," the girl sid anxiously. "'T
                                    is true that we were going to Presqu'isle, but you
                                    would better take me to the road between the two forts and let
                                    me make my own way to safety."
                              "Never!" declared Randolph warmly, and felt amply
                                    rewarded by the look that came into her eyes. "That is
                                    not the Virginia wayl We will escort you to within sight of
                                    Presqu'isle. It will be safer for us to go on to that
                                    post than back to Le Bœuf, where traces of our visit may by this
                                    time have been discovered."
                              The matter being thus decided, the party set off northwestward,
                                    Barnaby and the rangers in the lead, Randolph and Alfrede
                                    following. Soon they climbed a wooded ridge from whence they
                                    took a last look at the scene of the late conflict. Then they
                                    passed on into the primeval forest.
                              
                              Had they paused upon the ridge a few minutes longer, they would
                                    have perceived, stealing through the forest toward the place
                                    they had quitted, an armed man of magnificent proportions,
                                    dressed in the uniform of a captain of Canadian regulars. They
                                    would have seen him creep into the very thicket from which had
                                    come the volley that had worked so effectually towards the
                                    captive's release. They would have seen him take a
                                    cautious survey of thespot, then
                                    bound suddenly erect, spring forward to the bodies of the five
                                    dead savages, and there stand stamping, gesticulating, and
                                    giving vent to the imprecations that come instinctively from the
                                    mouth of an enraged and disappointed French Canadian.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER X
                              THE PARTING
                              "DO you know the whereabouts of Captain
                                    Van Braam?" Randolph asked Alfrede, as they made their
                                    way down the further side of the ridge.
                              "He stopped at Fort Le Bœuf three weeks ago on his way to
                                    Quebec," the girl replied. "We entertained him
                                    as well as we were able, and he repaid us by making us merry. We
                                    grew very fond of him. He talked much of you; one would think he
                                    was your father to hear him descanting on your virtues and
                                    valor."
                              "Good old Van Braam! Did he give you my
                                    letter?"
                              "Yes." "When you read it, did you recall
                                    the biblical injunction, mademoiselle?" he asked, with
                                    some trepidation.
                              She laughed merrily. "After today shall never regard you
                                    as my enemy," she said evasively. "Think of
                                    what I should now be suffering if you had not come so
                                    opportunely!"
                              "If I had had choice of every deed possible, I would have
                                    chosen this," he said, with a fervor that brought the
                                    blood to her face and maused her to drop her eyes. "But
                                    I must not forget the aid my comrades rendered."
                              "They are bold good men," she said, with
                                    enthusiasm. "Lieutenant Currin seems a droll
                                    fellow."
                              "He and Colonel Washington are my best friends,"
                                    said Randolph, and he told the story of Barnaby's life
                                    and marriage.
                              
                              "How romantic! And are they happy?"
                              "I know of no couple who are more so. They have the finest
                                    five-year-old boy in the colony of Virginia--a regular little
                                    angel and devil all in one! When we left for this trip, he gave
                                    each of us a kiss. He said it would keep the
                                    'Injuns' from getting us."
                              "Tbe little dear!" Alfrede cried.
                              Talking thus, they followed the rangers through the darkening
                                    forest. Alfrede's courage and spirits had returned. She
                                    was again the piquantly charming girl of Fort Le Boeuf. As for
                                    Randolph, some sorcery had suddenly transformed the wilderness
                                    into a pradise. Naturally imaginative and of a romantic
                                    temperament, he felt his whole being thrill with new and
                                    overpowering emotions. Every time he helped her over a prostrate
                                    tree or down some difficult ascent he wanted to take her in his
                                    arms, to tell her that he adored her, that he must follow
                                    Barnaby's advice and carry her to Virginia.
                              The sun set in a blaze of color; the stars came out; the moon rose;
                                    but still the little party stumbled on through the forest,
                                    dreading to stop lest savage pursuers might be on their trail.
                                    At last, however, the girl seemed so much exhausted that,
                                    despite her protests, Randolph ordered camp to be made.
                                    Following the plan they had used since they had been in the
                                    enemy's country, the rangers doubled back for a hundred
                                    yards or so on a course parallel to their trail and stopped on
                                    the top of partly open ridge. All had eaten while on the march a
                                    frugal supper of dried venison and parched corn, so that nothing
                                    remained to be done but to prepare a place to sleep. They did
                                    not dare to light a fire, nor to use their hatchets; but the men
                                    colleded fallen leaves and cut spruce boughs with their knives
                                    and under an immense tulip tree constructed a comfortable couch,
                                    over which they fashioned a rude shelter of branches.
                              
                              "This must be your abiding place for the night,"
                                    said Randolph, handing her his own blanket.
                                    "'T is a rude apartment, but the best we can
                                    offer. Alas! we do not have Aladdin's wonderful
                                    lamp."
                              She said good night and crept into the little bower. For some time
                                    she lay there gazing out upon the smiling moon and thinking of
                                    the strange events of the day. "I suppose I ought still
                                    to be afraid," she murmured to herself, only to add
                                    happily: "But I am not. I never felt safer in my
                                    life!" Presently tired Nature asserted her rights, and
                                    the girl slept.
                              Randolph insisted upon taking the first watch, and, rifle in hand,
                                    sat down in the shadow beside the little bower. The others,
                                    wrapping themselves in their blankets, lay down under
                                    neighboring trees. Soon the only conscious being in the camp was
                                    the sentinel.
                              There was no danger of his neglecting his trust. The strange manner
                                    in which the beautiful girl whose sleeping form lay almost
                                    within reach of his hand had once more been thrown in his path
                                    would have sufficed to keep him awake, even had his sense of
                                    duty been far less strong. Knowing all that depended upon him,
                                    he felt a sweet pleasure in his vigil.
                              For a long time he heard no sound save the usual noises of the
                                    night. Once a wolf walked across the top of the ridge, but
                                    caught the man-scent and slunk away. An interval of profound
                                    quiet followed. Then, from near the foot of the ridge a crashing
                                    of brush gave warning that mine heavy body was forcing its way
                                    through. Presently a dark figure appeared in an opening among
                                    the trees and began to climb the ridge. At first Randolph
                                    believed it was a prowling bear; but when it emerged from the
                                    shadow of the trees, he saw with a shook of foreboding that it
                                    was a man, dressed in uniform and carrying a rifle. The new-comer reached the top of the
                                    ridge and stood for a few moments gazing out over the moonlit
                                    country that lay before him. The moon now fell full upon his
                                    face. It was Reparti.
                              Randolph threw his rifle to his shoulder and took aim. The
                                    Frenchman stood scarce twenty yards distant; his life lay in the
                                    Virginian's hands. But, unaware of the causes that had
                                    led Reparti on his nocturnal journey, the sentinel hesitated to
                                    fire. The report might bring up other enemies; besides he liked
                                    not the idea of slaying even his bitterest enemy in cold blood.
                                    He even thought of calling to the Frenchman and intrusting him
                                    with the task of escorting Alfrede to safety, but immediately
                                    dismissed the idea. So, with finger on the trigger, he watched
                                    his man, determined to fire at the first sign of discovery. But
                                    Reparti remained wholly unconscious of his peril. Presently he
                                    chose his course and set off at a pace that soon carried him out
                                    of hearing. Randolph watched long and anxiously for followers,
                                    but none appeared, and he finally concluded that the Frenchman
                                    was alone.
                              Long after midnight Randolph roused Currin to relieve him, and
                                    communicated what he had seen. "Now what is that
                                    oneeyed divil doin' trapesin' round over the
                                    country at this time of night, I dunno," said the
                                    Irishman. "'T was a good thing for him Barnaby
                                    Currin did n't take the first watch! The time may come,
                                    Charles, when you'll wish you had n't been so
                                    merciful. But lie down an' get a bit of sleep. You
                                    ought to've waked me earlier."
                              Randolph wrapped himself in Currin's blanket. It seemed to
                                    him that he had scarcely lost consciousness ere be was aroused
                                    by the Irishman's saying:
                              "Wake up, Charles! The east's beginnin'
                                    to redden up a bit. We ought tobe after
                                    startin'."
                              
                              The other soldiers were already astir. All that remained to be done
                                    was to awaken the girl. It seemed a pity to do so, but the
                                    danger of pursuit was too great to admit of longer delay, and
                                    reluctantly Randolph went to the little bower to arouse her. A
                                    ray of moonlight shone in upon her face, and he could not resist
                                    the temptation to gaze a few moments down upon her. Then, with
                                    futtering heart, he shook her slightly, saying in a low voice:
                                    "Awaken, mademoiselle; we must be going."
                              Slowly the dark eyes opened and looked up into his.
                                    "Oh!" she cried, but quickly remembered her
                                    situation and crept out.
                              "Bonjour, mademoiselle, comment vous
                                          portez-vous ce matin?" he said, with the
                                    lowest of bows.
                              "Since when have you been a Frenchman?" she cried
                                    gayly.
                              "Is not my accent perfect" he asked in English,
                                    as they set out.
                              "No Parisian could do better. I congratulate your
                                    instructor. Mais, why need I be talking your
                                    barbarous English?" and she made him a long speech in
                                    French.
                              "Pardon me! pardon me! my vocabulary is limited,
                                    alas!" he said confusedly. "But I am
                                    determined to learn. I think I shall be able to speak it by the
                                    time we take Quebec."
                              "Sans doute!" said Alfrede
                                    sarcastically.
                              "Already I can conjugate the verb aimer
                                    in every mood, tense, and voice," he continued,
                                    ignoring her insinuation.
                              "Eh bien! that is the first step in
                                    becoming a French man. It is his first
                                    acomplishment."
                              "Captain Randolph jabbers away 'round the
                                    camp-fire at nights," said Barnaby, who was listening.
                                    "The boys here was a little afeard he was
                                    goin' loony at first, but I told 'em not to be
                                    oneasy."
                              
                              "Barnaby!" exclaimed Randolph.
                              "You see I'd already had an introduction to it,
                                    miss," the Irishman persisted.
                                    "Comin' out, we stopped a couple of days at my
                                    little home in the Shenandoah valley. Mrs. Currin knows Frinch
                                    herself, an' I'll be blamed if the two of
                                    'em did n't spend the whole of the time
                                    chatterin' away like a couple of parrakeets, without me
                                    bein' able to understand what they was sayin'
                                    or bein' able to get in a word edgewise."
                              "Mrs. Currin speaks French perfectly," said
                                    Randolph, by way of explanation. "It is one of her many
                                    accomplishments."
                              "I told 'em if they did n't talk so I
                                    could understand, I'd apply to the burgesses for a
                                    divorce," continued Barnaby. "It's
                                    easier to get to heaven than it is to get a divorce in Virginny,
                                    but I thought I had good grounds."
                              "And did they beed the warning, Monsieur
                                    Currin?"
                              "No more than if I'd been a buzzing
                                    mosquiteer," said the Irishman. "Even me
                                    little Barnaby began talkin' Frinch. Then I said it was
                                    high time to be startin' on our scout."
                              Meanwhile the little party had been making their way briskly
                                    through the forest. When the sun rose, they had a meager
                                    breakfast, and, after a refreshing draught from a clear brook,
                                    moved forward again. The sun soon disappeared behind thick
                                    clouds; but, though none of the Virginians had ever been over
                                    the route before, they were able to keep unerringly toward their
                                    goal by observing the moss on the trees and the direction of the
                                    watercourses. Toward ten o'clock they surmounted a
                                    hill, from which they beheld the blue waters of Lake Erie and,
                                    on the shore of a wide harbor almost enclosed by a claw-like
                                    peninsula, the log bastions and palisades of Fort
                                    Presqu'isle.
                              "You must not come further," said Alfrede.
                                          "Thereare always
                                    Indians hanging about the fort who might discover you. I can
                                    easily find my now."
                              "No," dissented he. "I can't
                                    let you attempt it. I will leave my men here and escort you
                                    myself until we reach a point from which you can make your way
                                    in absolute safety."
                              Alfrede remonstrated against his taking the additional risk; but as
                                    he insisted, she had perforce to asset. Leaving her for a moment
                                    with Barnaby, he walked to where the other borderers were
                                    standing in order to give them some instructions.
                              "It's sorry I am, miss, to be tellin'
                                    you good-by," said Barnaby soberly. "If ever
                                    you should be in the valley of the Shenandoah in Virginny, come
                                    an' see us. You an' my wife Ellen can talk
                                    Frinch together long as you're a mind to, an'
                                    I won't be sayin' a word."
                              "I know I should enjoy meeting your wife and that
                                    wonderful son of yours," she said graciously.
                                    "Even though I never see you again, you may be sure
                                    that I shall not forget your brave assistance. Perhaps some day
                                    I may be able to repay it."
                              The borderer examined the priming of his rifle judiciously, and
                                    shut the pan.
                              "Stranger things are often after happenin' than
                                    that you should visit Virginny," he said meaningly.
                                    "As for the debt, just observe my friend Charles
                                    yonder, see what a fine-lookin' true-hearted gintleman
                                    he is--an' we'll call it square. They
                                    don't make many like him, miss. He's of one of
                                    the first families in Virginny, but he thinks just as much of
                                    plain folks as he does of aristocrats. They all like him--both
                                    kinds of 'em. The only trouble with him is that
                                    he's a mite too reckless. The morning before we got
                                    cornered in Fort Necessity a big passel of Injuns chased him
                                    an' me through the woods, and one of 'em
                                          knockedme down with his
                                    hatchet. Of course, Charles ought to've run on
                                    an' saved his own bacon, but not him! He stopped right
                                    there, helped me up, an' we stood 'em off till
                                    some Buckskins come."
                              "You old prevaricator!" cried Randolph, who had
                                    drawn near in time to hear the last. "The fact is,
                                    mademoiselle, that Lieutenant Currin had already shot three of
                                    the imps. Why, if it had n't been for him, I'd
                                    have lost my scalp long before he was hit."
                              "Mon Dieu!" the girl cried,
                                    looking from one to the other. "Which am I to believe?
                                    But I have the secret--you are both brave men!"
                              "At least we are good friends," Randolph said,
                                    and he put his arm around Barnaby's shoulders.
                              Alfrede said good-by to Barnaby and then to the two borderers, whom
                                    she thanked so prettily for their valor in her behalf that the
                                    honest fellows blushed crimson with satisfaction and stood with
                                    their hats in their hands until she was out of sight.
                              " Blast my buttons, but ain't she a
                                    beauty!" exclaimed one of them, when he had partially
                                    recovered breath. "It give me the pedoddles jist to
                                    talk to her. I ain't done shakin'
                                    yit!"
                              "She's none too good fer Cap, though,"
                                    said the other loyally. "My! ain't they a span
                                    o' thoroughbreds now!"
                              Meanwhile Randolph and Alfrede were moving cautiously forward
                                    through the forest. In the course of half an hour they reached a
                                    point from which the way to the fort was much more open.
                              "You must not go a step further," said the girl
                                    determinedly. "If you leave this cover, you will be
                                    seen."
                              "Here then we must say good-by," he acquiesced
                                    reluctantly. "I am sorry."
                              Never, never had he found parting so difficult.
                              
                              Her lips trembled. "I shall ever forget your gallantry and
                                    kindness," she said earnestly.
                              "I hope I shall see you again," he said somewhat
                                    lamely, wondering what had become of his self-assurance.
                              "Perhaps you will," she said demurely.
                                    "It seems that we have a habit of
                                    meeting."
                              For some moments neither said a word. Yet neither made a move to
                                    go. Each stole aglance at the other.
                              "Mademoiselle, may I ask you a question?" he
                                    asked at last, in a constrained voice.
                              "As many as you wish," she answered shyly,
                                    looking down at the stone she was poking with her moccasined
                                    foot.
                              "'T is presumptuous in me to ask, but are you to
                                    marry Captain Reparti?"
                              She hesitated, a warm flush suffusing her face. A saucy evasive
                                    answer trembled on her tongue, but she did not utter it.
                              "No," she said finally.
                              "I am glad," he said, though the words were
                                    unnecessary. "The thought that perhaps you were was a
                                    motive that led me to spare his life last night."
                              "Last night? I do not understand."
                              He told her of Reparti's midnight appearance.
                              "That was very strange," she said. "I
                                    wonder what he could have been about."
                              "I do not know. Mademoiselle, you have answered my
                                    question; will you make me a promise?"
                              "That will depend upon the request, monsieur,"
                                    she said. The color rose in her face; her breath came
                                    quickly.
                              "It is that you will not marry any one
                                    until I see you again," he said haltingly.
                              "What a strange request!" she cried, half
                                    relieved, half sorry.
                              
                              He failed to notice that she did not seem greatly displeased. His
                                    face took on hurt look.
                              "I suppose you think me most presumptuous. Forgive
                                    me," he murmured, aghast at his boldness.
                              "How could a girl make such a promise as that, monsieur?
                                    Why, you may never see me again!"
                              "I will if this infernal war ever ends," he
                                    declared resolutely. "But it is cruel to keep you
                                    longer. You must hasten to the fort and secure food and
                                    rest"
                              "Adieu, Captain Randolph; may Our Lady and the Saints
                                    watch over you!" she said feelingly, and slowly turned
                                    to go.
                              "Good-by, mademoiselle, good-by," he said,
                                    bending overherhand. "Forget my foolish
                                    request."
                              At a few paces' distance she stopped and looked back at
                                    him. There was look in his brown eyes that touched her.
                              "I make the promise, and I will keep it, though I never
                                    see you again," she said. Then, as if panic-stricken at
                                    the words she had uttered, she ran swiftly down the slope.
                              He watched her until she was out of sight; then turned reluctantly
                                    to retrace his steps. He had not gone far when he came upon
                                    Baraby Currin standing behind a tree with a quizzical look on
                                    his jovial face.
                              "I thought I told you to stay on the ridge," said
                                    Randolph haughtily, not meeting his subordinate's
                                    eyes.
                              "Sure, an' you did that"
                              "Why did n't you obey orders?"
                              "I was fearin' you might run into a nest of
                                    Injuns. Two rifles are better than one in such
                                    festivities."
                              "You're not well disciplined," said
                                    Randolph, trying to be severe but failing. "I shall
                                    have to court-martial you. Don't you know that
                                    obedience is the first requisite in a soldier?"
                              "Sure, I plead guilty, an' leave the punishment
                                    to myimmejete superior
                                    offier," returned Barnaby imperturbably.
                                    "I'm willin' to admit that
                                    you've got me beat at soldierin'; but at one
                                    thing you, too, have much to learn, Charlie dear."
                              "What do you mean by that?" asked Randolph
                                    suspiciously.
                              "Some years ago, when you was younger, you told me that a
                                    certain gentleman was 'obtuse.' I asked you
                                    what you was after meanin' by the word, an'
                                    you said it meant 'to be blunt,'
                                    or'not sharp.' Well, I mean that in love
                                    makin' you're like the gintleman;
                                    you're obtuse. I saw the partin'--kape cool
                                    now! there was n't nothin' to see, for it was
                                    n't managed accordin' to the science of the
                                    game. Then ought to have been a bit of besiegin', some
                                    surroundin', an' then a grand assault. Take
                                    the word of an Irishman for it, the town would have capitulated
                                    on the first summons. 'Neither a fortress nor a maid
                                    will hold out long after they begin to parley,' says
                                    Poor Richard; an', faith, he knows what he's
                                    talkin' about."
                              "I think you're mistaken," said
                                    Randolph, with much the air of one who hopes he is wrong.
                                    "I have seen Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre but a few
                                    times."
                              "Shucks! what diffence does that make? Does it make mny
                                    difference to you? I know the signs. If you
                                    want her, an' you're a plumb fool if you
                                    don't, you ought to've done as I said
                                    an' eloped to Virginny, leavin' a note behind
                                    for the old gintleman. She would n't 've
                                    needed no tyin' to be made to go. You don't
                                    seem to've leared none by helpin' me.
                                    'T is the bould man who wins in love as in war.
                                    You're bould in war but timid in love. The men of my
                                    family have been bould in both. My grandfather Currin was a
                                    bog-trottin' Catholic Irishman in Ulster. The Scotch
                                    thereabouts hated all such like pizen; an', truth to
                                    tell, they were n't alone in the feelin'.
                                          Hesaw a Scotch lass in
                                    Londonderry one day, eloped with her the next, an'
                                    ended his days a good Presbyterian. My own father eloped with my
                                    mother, an' I eloped with Ellen, as you have reason to
                                    know. But you're an Eng"lishman; what could
                                    one expect of you?"
                              "For once, I wish I were an Irishman," said
                                    Randolph regretfully.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XI
                              DID LE BON DIEU HEAR?
                              MEANWHILE Alfrede,with the flag that floated
                                    above one of the bastions as her guide, made her way slowly
                                    toward the fort.
                              I must not hasten; mon Dieu, I must
                                    not!" she kept saying to herself. "I shall
                                    have to tell who were my rescuers. They will be pursued. I must
                                    give them time to escape."
                              When she was near enough to feel safe, she sat down under a beech
                                    tree from which the leaves and nuts were falling in little
                                    showers with every puff of wind, and resolutely fought back the
                                    fatigue that threatened to overmaster her. She had not been
                                    there long when one of the great wooden gates of the stockade
                                    opeued and gave exit to about a dozen Frenchmen and a score of
                                    Indians. Like some hunted partridge she crept down beside the
                                    log on which she had been sitting, and thus, partially screened
                                    by some tall grass, waited for the party to pass. As they drew
                                    nearer, she saw to her dismay that the Frenchman in the lead,
                                    gesticulating violently as if urging the others to renewed
                                    speed, was Reparti. They were so intent upon their errand that
                                    all the Frenchmen and most of the warriors passed within a rod
                                    of where she lay trembling without noticing her. But the roving
                                    beady eyes of the last savage fell upon an unconcealed fold of
                                    her dress.
                              
                              "Ugh!" he exclaimed, pointing with naked arm
                                    toward his discovery.
                              The whole party stopped, and wonderingly gathered round her.
                              "Mother of God, it is mademoiselle herself!"
                                    cried one of the officers, whom Alfrede recognized as Captain Le
                                    Moyne and knew to be an honest man. "She has
                                    escaped."
                              Determined not to betray the reason for her concealment, she
                                    feigned exhaustion and gave no sign of life. But when Reparti,
                                    much relieved at discovering her, attempted to raise her in his
                                    arms, she repulsed him with a vigor that con trasted decidedly
                                    with her behavior on the preceding evening. Throwing aside all
                                    pretense, she struggled to her feet.
                              "Where are the rascals?" demanded Reparti.
                              "To whom do you refer?" she asked, determined to
                                    detain the pursuers as long as possible.
                              "The English who had you captive."
                              "I have not been captive to any English."
                              "The English, then, who took you from the Iroquois. Where
                                    are they? They are lurking spies."
                              "How did you know that I was captive to the
                                    Iroquois?"
                              The Frenchman flushed slightly, but was equal to the emergency.
                                    "I was hunting. I came upon their trail and followed
                                    it. Had I been a little earlier, I would myself have saved
                                    you."
                              "I was quite satisfied with my rescuers. How did you know
                                    that it was I who was the captive?"
                              "Ah, mademoiselle, there was no mistaking the print of
                                    your moccasins. No other in all these forests has such a dainty
                                    foot. Besides," he continued, "on arriving at
                                    Presqu'isle I found the rest of your party, who had
                                    been rescued by Le Chat and my Ottawas."
                              The girl's face lit up with joy. "Thank
                                    God!" she cried. "Were all
                                    unhurt?"
                              
                              "All. But tell us quickly, mademoiselle, where you last
                                    saw the English."
                              "They rescued me from the Iroquois. All my life I should
                                    be sorry if any harm came to them," she said
                                    earnestly.
                              "They are enemies of France, mademoiselle," he
                                    persisted. "They are spies. We shall not waste time in
                                    holding a court-martial when we capture them."
                              "Surely you will let them go," she pleaded.
                                    "They risked their lives to save me. They risked them a
                                    second time to escort me to a place of safety."
                              Her eagerness caused a suspicion to dawn upon him. "Who
                                    were the knaves?" he demanded.
                              "Virginians under Captain Randolph," the girl
                                    answered proudly, then bitterly regretted what she had said.
                              Reparti's face grew mottled with rage. "Nom de Dieu! is that presumptuous coxcomb
                                    again in this region?" he shrieked. "He shall
                                    know what it is to dance about the stake! He shall have burning
                                    splinters thrust into his eyes and a necklace of red-hot
                                    tomahaws about his neck!"
                              The savages whooped their approval. All were Ottawas in the secret
                                    of the imposture of the day before, and one was the very warrior
                                    who had escaped when Alfrede was rescued. The girl turned pale
                                    at this display of ferocity, but did not lose her courage.
                              "Ma foi, you talk as if you had him
                                    already in your hands!" she cried sarcastically.
                                    "If you had seen him slay the Iroquois, you would not
                                    be in such a hurry!"
                              "Tell us where you left the knaves," Reparti
                                    demanded fiercely. "We lose time. Pardieu, you shall tell us!"
                              "Monsieur, you forget whose daughter I am!" she
                                    said haughtily. "These brave gentlemen will not allow
                                    me to be threatened."
                              
                              "Mademoiselle is right," said Le Moyne
                                    pacifically yet firmly. "You go too far."
                              "Merci, Captain Le Moyne; you are a
                                    gentleman born," she said significantly.
                              For a few moments Reparti looked from one to the other like a
                                    baffled bull. "Pardon me, mademoiselle," he
                                    begged finally, though with ill grace. "In my anxiety
                                    to destroy the enemies of our king, I forgot
                                    myself."
                              "That is much better, monsieur," she said
                                    condescendingly. "You should engage Captain Le Moyne to
                                    teach you lessons in politeness."
                              Naturally this did not tend to lessen Reparti's anger, but
                                    he managed to repress his rage and asked in as civil a voice as
                                    he could command where the English had left her.
                              "Do you wish to know the exact spot, monsieur?"
                                    she asked, with great deliberation.
                              "Certainement, else why should I
                                    ask?"
                              "Then I fear I cannot tell you. I am not sure that I could
                                    discover it myself," she said airily.
                              "Then tell us approximately."
                              "But what good will that do you?"
                              "My warriors will easily find the trail."
                              "But the English will be gone. They travel very
                                    fast."
                              "Never fear! we shall catch them. The pursuer always has
                                    the advantage."
                              "But what will you do when you catch up with
                                    them?"
                              Reparti's anger again burst its bounds. "Come,
                                    come, mademoiselle!" he exclaimed. "Tell us
                                    where you last saw the rascals!"
                              Alfrede hesitated. She would have liked to prolong the conversation
                                    still further, for each moment thus gained might mean life to
                                    the Virginians. But she saw that the Indians and the other
                                    Frenchmen were also growing impatient.
                              
                              "They brought me to the road perhaps half-way between this
                                    place and Le Bœuf," she said at last.
                              "That is enough! En avant!"
                                    cried Reparti triumphantly. "Le Chat, let two warriors
                                    follow the road on each side to see if they can find the trail
                                    of the skulkers nearer the fort. Adieu, mademoiselle. When I
                                    return, I shall bring you a love knot of Captain
                                    Randolph's hair."
                              The girl saw that shemust play a trump cad. "Oh, but,
                                    messieurs," she exclaimed, with well-simulated concern,
                                    "surely you cannot think of pursuing with so small a
                                    party! The English number sixty men, all well armed. I cannot
                                    allow my father's friends, the king's brave
                                    servants, to throw away their lives thus. You must wait for
                                    reinforcments."
                              The whole party paused abruptly. "How could that
                                    be?" demanded Reparti. "I saw the trail of but
                                    four."
                              "Those who rescued me were only a part of the
                                    detachment," she said readily. "When we joined
                                    the others, I counted the whole party. The total number was
                                    sixty or sixty-one, I was not sure which."
                              Her speech made a decided impression upon the savages and upon all
                                    the Frenchmen save Reparti.
                              "Your caution is most timely, mademoiselle, and shows that
                                    you are a true daughter of your illustrious father,"
                                    said Le Moyne. "'T is evident, Captain
                                    Reparti, that we are too few to attempt pursuit. Let us return
                                    to the fort and gather a larger party."
                              "I do not believe there are so many," said
                                    Reparti irresolutely. "The dangers through which she
                                    has pased must have affected mademoiselle's head.
                              " Alfrede shrugged her shoulders disdainfully, and,
                                    turning her back on him, started for the fort. "I have
                                    done my duty in warning you," she called back.
                              
                              After taking a few steps, she began to walk unsteadily and then
                                    stopped.
                              "Captain Le Moyne," she said appealingly,
                                    "will you not assist me to the fort? I am much
                                    fatigued."
                              The officer sprang to her side with great alacrity. "Wait
                                    for me, comrades," he called.
                              Reparti attempted to lead the party on, but the other officers
                                    remonstrated and insisted that he should at least wait for Le
                                    Moyne. The savages, despite all Reparti's raging and
                                    fuming, showed even less anxiety to take the trail of sixty
                                    Virginians. After wrangling for some time, the whole band
                                    followed Alfrede and Le Moyne back to the fort.
                              The first person the girl saw upon reaching the gate was her
                                    father. He had just arrived and had received a confused account
                                    of his daughter's capture but not of her escape.
                                    Presently, when they had partly recovered their composure and
                                    were alone in the cabin allotted to them, she told the story of
                                    her adventures, confessing with hot tears the stratagem she bad
                                    used to confound Reparti.
                              The chevalier listened intently with a dawning comprehension of
                                    something she thought she had concealed. When she finished, he
                                    kissed her again, and pinching her cheek, said cheerily:
                              "Captain Randolph is a brave man, a gallant gentleman,
                                    even though an enemy. He gave me back my only treasure. I should
                                    be ungrateful indeed if I,too, did not wish that he should
                                    continue to wear the hair which so much becomes him. I shall
                                    insist that since he has so large a force, to pursue with the
                                    men we have available would be foolhardy. Do not weep, petite. Doubtless Le Bon
                                          Dieu shut his ears when you were telling of the sixty
                                    Virginians--'all well armed'!"
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XII
                              THE BURSTING OF THE STORM
                              BARNABY CURRIN, Randolph, and four other horsemen
                                    were fording the Shenandoah. As his horse stepped out of the
                                    river upon the sandbar, Barnaby, who was foremost, looked up at
                                    the August sun, which had just begun to assume his scorching
                                    power, and then turned to Randolph.
                              "Today is me boy's birthday," he said;
                                    "an' I do be wantin' to reach the
                                    fort before he goes to sleep. Until you've had children
                                    of your own, Charles, you'll never have no idea how the
                                    little fellers get a tight hold on your heart so you
                                    can't bear bein' aay from them for
                                    long--especially in times like these. Every minute of the days
                                    we're out on such scouts as this I do be
                                    feelin' anxious about me little Barnaby."
                              Randolph took off his hat and mopped his moist forehead, disclosing
                                    to view upon his temple a scar that strengthened rather than
                                    marred the manly beauty of his face. Then, as the little
                                    cavalcade climbed the river bank, he said sympathetically:
                              "I believe I know how you feel. I wish that you would yet
                                    accept my offer to send the family to Eastover."
                              "'T is Ellen's pride, as I've
                                    told you" said Barnaby. "Not that I'm
                                    blamin' her."
                              Randolph nodded comprehendingly. "Set the pace if it
                                    please you," he said. "The rest of us will try
                                    to keep up."
                              
                              But most of the way led through thick woods, and progress was so
                                    slow that when noon came they were still thirty miles from the
                                    fort. They halted to let their horses graze, and, back to back,
                                    with rifles ready to their hands, sat down under a maple tree to
                                    eat their own scanty meal. Before them brawled the shallow
                                    Shenandoah, its water so pellucid that every line of the pebbles
                                    on its bottom was discernible; while beyond stretched away to a
                                    distant line of bold blue mountains the rich valley with its
                                    mantle of majestic forest, interspersed here and there with open
                                    glades and an infinite variety of flowering shrubs.
                               "Eden could not have been fairer," said
                                    Randolph, with a wave of his hand towards the mountains.
                                    "How strange that such a valley should be a place of
                                    horror--its beauty but a mockery!"
                              He paused, and a look of bitterness came into his face.
                                    "The past two years seem like a fevered nightmare--the
                                    death-trap into which we plunged with Braddock, the wild rout
                                    along the wilderness road, and our yet wilder fight to defend
                                    the border. How pitiful have been our efforts! George has proved
                                    himself a hero; but, God in heaven, what can he do when given
                                    but one weak regiment with which to hold a hundred leagues of
                                    mountainous frontier against all the moccasined hordes of the
                                    Northwest set on by hell-hound Frenchmen! Only following them
                                    into their lairs can bring us safety, and for that we are much
                                    too weak. 'Fore God, when I think of governor and
                                    burgesses wrangling over supplies--the tidewater aristocrats
                                    racing, cock-fighting, and sipping their Madeira in the safety
                                    of their plantations and caring not a sixpence for the people of
                                    the border, I want to ride into Williamsburg, seize all the
                                    indifferent, and put them unarmed into the
                                    most exposed stockade!"
                              
                              "I'd steal the bar to the gate," said
                                    Barnaby, with a chuckle, and the other borderers swore
                                    assent.
                              "The civilized world and the savage as well are against
                                    us," Radolph went on bitterly. "France,
                                    Sweden, Saxony, Austria, the Holy Roman Empire, and Russia--all
                                    in arms, and King Fritz of Prussia our sole ally."
                              "He's put in some licks that'll be
                                    remembered!" said Baraby, with enthusiasm.
                                    "Faith, though,'t is little enough we have to
                                    show for the three years since the ruction began. Braddock
                                    beaten, Duquesne still in the hands of Satan's imps,
                                    Oswego taken last year by Montcalm--an' the Lord only
                                    knows what'll happen to us this year. Only Dieskau
                                    whipped beside Lake George, an' I'm
                                    thinkin' Sir William might not be a baronet if the
                                    Chevalier de Saint-Pierre had n't been killed in the
                                    first skirmish. Poor Miss Saint-Pierre! I took quite a
                                    likin' to that girl. I reckon she misses him a good
                                    deal. But who the divil's this?"
                              All gave ear and heard the sound of hoof-beats approaching from up
                                    the valley. Catching up their rifles, the little band slipped
                                    quietly behind trees. Presently a dozen horsemen came in
                                    sight.
                              "Why, 't is Sergeant Armstrong and his
                                    men!" Randolph exclaimed, and stepped out of his
                                    covert. "What can have caused them to leave the
                                    fort?"
                              "What are you doing here, sergeant?" he demanded
                                    severely, as the party rode up.
                              "You druv 'em off did you?" cried the
                                    sergeant excitedly, without noticing the question.
                              "What under heaven do you mean?" asked
                                    Randolph.
                              "Why, the Injuns who had you surrounded, of
                                    course," was the answer. "I'm right
                                    glad none of you got hurt."
                              "We haven't been surrounded by any
                                    Indians," said Randolph, mystified. "Why, man,
                                    we haven't seen an Indian for three
                                    weeks."
                              
                              The sergeant was so astonished that he almost fell out of his
                                    saddle. "Well, I'll be jiggered!" he
                                    gasped out. "Then what did your order
                                    mean?"
                              "What order, man! In God's name, what means this
                                    mystery?"
                              "Why, captain, yisterday evenin' a big black buck
                                    of a nigger come racin' into Neally's Fort
                                    with no hat on, his clothes all tore, an' said
                                    he'd come down the Valley forty miles from where
                                    you'uns was surrounded by a big passel of Injuns. He
                                    had your order to hurry up or you'un was goners. As
                                    quick as I could I mounted these 'leven men on the only
                                    hosses we had an' sot off. It got dark purty quick,
                                    an' we could n't go no furder, but we started
                                    airly this mornin', an' here we
                                    be."
                              "I have never seen such a negro; I have never written such
                                    an order,"said Randolph. "Do you have it with
                                    you?"
                              The sergeant fumbled in the fold of his hunting-shirt, and finally
                                    produced a crumpled bit of soiled paper.
                              "Here it be," he said.
                              Randolph took the paper and found that it was, in truth, signed
                                    with his own name and contained an order such as the sergeant
                                    had described. But it was not in Randolph's
                                    hand-writing, nor in that of any other officer of the Virginia
                                    regiment.
                              Randolph staggered backward as the signifcane of the fact burnt
                                    itself into his brain. "May God preservethem!"
                                    he cried involuntarily.
                              'What is it?" asked Barnaby Currin.
                              "Sergeant," said Randolph hoarsely, "you
                                    are the victim of a trick. This was written by a Frenchman. The
                                    negro is doubtless one of the runaways whom we know to have
                                    joined the enemy. The object was to get you and your men out of
                                    the fort so that it could be taken easily."
                              
                               "My God!" cried Barnaby. "Ellen
                                    an'my little boy!"
                              Like exclamations of dread there were from other lips as well, for
                                    Currin was not the only man present who had a family in the
                                    fort.
                              "There is just one chance," said Randolph, not
                                    losing his self-possession. "Perhaps the attack has not
                                    yet been delivered. Mount, men, and away! If you ever hastened
                                    in your lives, hasten now!"
                              There was no need of urging. The words were scarcely uttered before
                                    the borderers were in the saddle and were swinging down the
                                    stream along the trail by which the sergeant and his party had
                                    come. But it was exasperatingly slow work. The trees grew thick
                                    in most places, and only now and then did an open glade give
                                    opportunity for a dash at full speed. Swaying limbs tore their
                                    clothes and faces, yet still they kept on, fording creeks,
                                    leaping over logs and gullies, and climbing steep hills, without
                                    stopping for an instant. The horses, already tired and heated by
                                    their morning's work, were covered with sweat and foam
                                    and with blood from wounds inflicted by the merciless spurs.
                                    Barnaby, Randolph, and Sergeant Armstrong kept in the lead; the
                                    rest followed as the speed of their horses permitted.
                              "Sich a dumb-headed fool! Sich a dumb-headed
                                    fool!" Armstrong cried bitterly, over and over again.
                                    "But, captain, you mus' n't blame
                                    we'uns too much. We thought you'uns wuz in
                                    trouble an' wanted to help you out. Not a man of us
                                    thought of any trick."
                              "You did what you thought was right, sergeant,"
                                    said Randolph, profoundly sorry for the man, for he had always
                                    shown himself a good soldier and had performed more than one
                                    bold exploit. "It was as clever a stratagem as if the
                                    devil himself had planned it. Any of us might have been
                                    deceived."
                              
                               "My sister, Tom Cohoon's wife, 's in
                                    that fort," moaned the sergeant, not to be consoled.
                                    "My Gawd, I'll never see her alive aginI
                                    She's in no shape to travel if she's took.
                                    They'll tomahawk her. An' I'm to
                                    blame!"
                              From time to time he again burst forth into a stream of agonized
                                    self-denunciation. Randolph and Barnaby said little, but grimly
                                    devoted themselves to the work of steering their horses among
                                    the trees. Somewhat better mounted than the sergeant, they
                                    gradually drew ahead of him. A brave sight they made as they
                                    spurred onward, for finer figure of men or finer horsemen were
                                    not to be found in all Virginia.
                              "Only a mile more," cried Randolph, when the sun
                                    had fallen nearly to the tree-tops, and he and Barnaby were
                                    beginning the ascent of a long hill that overlooked the valley
                                    in which the fort lay. A hundred yards or so in their rear
                                    toiled the sergeant, while the rest of the party were strung out
                                    for miles behind them.
                              "Pray God we may be in time, an' may I be given
                                    the strength to bear what I may be called upon to see,"
                                    said Barnaby, almost in a whisper.
                              "Your father's abrave man. He and the others
                                    would do all they could," Randolph said hopefully. At a
                                    swinging trot they rode up the hill and reached the top. A patch
                                    of dense woods still cut off their view of the fort, and they
                                    wheeled westward and made their way along the summit. As they
                                    did so, Randolph marked with sinking heart that a number of
                                    great black birds were soaring lightly over the clearing, and
                                    that a slender column of smoke was rising above the trees. A
                                    minute more and they had reached a point from which they
                                    commanded an unobstructed view of the fort.
                              But the fort was no longer there. Some palisades and one of the
                                    corner blockhouses remained to mark the site.The rest was a heap of smouldering
                                    ruins, from which little wreaths of smoke were still rising. And
                                    from the tops of the palisades and of divers dead trees great
                                    black repulsive vultures were gazing lazily down at knots of
                                    their fellows upon the ground.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XIII
                              THE MASSACRE
                              "THOSE buzzards tell an awful story, I
                                    fear," said Randolph huskily. "My God,
                                    Barnaby, I would give all I possess rather than have had this
                                    happen!"
                              As for Barnaby, with teeth set and brain on fire, he put spurs to
                                    his horse and dashed at breakneck speed down the hill. Randolph
                                    and the others followed. As they came on, the vultures rose
                                    slowly and heavily into the air, there to circle round and
                                    round, unwilling to quit the scene. The site of the stockade
                                    presented a hideous spectacle. Men, women, and children, scalped
                                    and mangled with kife and tomahawk, half stripped of clothing,
                                    and tor by vultures, lay scattered here and there among the
                                    blackened ruins. Feverishly Barnaby ran from body to body,
                                    searching for his loved ones. As the other soldiers came up,
                                    they followed his example; and agonized cries and muttered
                                    maledictions rose to heaven as what had been a father, a mother,
                                    a wife, or child was recognized.
                              Presently a dog began to bark at the edge of the clearing and then
                                    came running toward Barnaby, who was still unsuccessful in his
                                    search.
                              "Why, it's Ring," groaned the Irishman.
                                    "Poor dog, you're all that I have
                                    left."
                              After leaping about joyously for some time, the hound walked again
                                    toward the woods, stopping now and then to bark and whimper as
                                    though he wished to lead his mas-ter hither. Dreading what they might find, Barnaby, Randolph,
                                    and two or three of the men followed. A rod or more within the
                                    woods the dog stopped with a low whine at the foot of a large
                                    beech. When the searchers drew near the tree, they saw the
                                    prostrate form of a man and heard a weak voice say:
                              "Barnaby!"
                              "Oh, 't is me father!" cried the
                                    agonized officer.
                              It was a horrible figure that he knelt beside. There were deep
                                    wounds in the old man's body and in his head; his scalp
                                    was gone; what remained was but the pitiable caricature of a
                                    human being.
                              "How did it happen? How did you come here? Where are Ellen
                                    an' me little Barnaby?" cried Barnaby all in a
                                    breath.
                              "Wather, wather; thin I kin tell ye," said the
                                    wounded man weakly. The son gave him a drink from his flask,
                                    while Randolph sent one of the men for some blankets, on which
                                    they tenderly laid the mutilated body.
                              "I've been layin' here all day,
                                    chokin' wid thirst an' fightin' off
                                    buzzards," said the old man.
                              "Where are Ellen an' me little Barnaby?"
                                    begged Barnaby imploringly.
                              "Prisoners," came the weak answer; "that
                                    is, if they hain't been kilt since I seed 'em
                                    tuk."
                              "When did it happen? How did it happen?"
                              "Last noight about a' hour to midnight the dogs
                                    begun to r'ar an' stave round loike mad,
                                    an' the stock acted oneasy. I wuz on guard. I knowed
                                    somethin' wuz wrong, so I waked all av the min quiet as
                                    I could an' thin we tuk our places at the loopholes. It
                                    had n't been long 'fore we seen about a dozen
                                    Injuns come crapin' on their bellies towards the gate.
                                    We let 'em git up purty close; thin weall let drive to wanst, hittin'
                                    four av 'em. The rist run fer kiver, an'
                                    others who'd been hidin' let loose a volley
                                    from all round the fort. They must've been fifty min at
                                    the laste, an' as we did n't musther but
                                    eliven min we seen we wuz in a toight hole. They didn't
                                    seem none too anxious, though, to rush in on our guns, fer a
                                    Frincher called out that if we'd surrinder
                                    they'd trate us well. But we remimbered how they dilt
                                    with the people over to Thompson's Fort whin they
                                    surrindered. I told 'em we'd see 'em
                                    in hell first.
                              "With that, they begun shootin' agin. We answered
                                    the best we could, firin' at the flashes. The wimmen
                                    an' bhoys loaded our guns fer us. But the bullets come
                                    singin' in through the loopholes, so that we did
                                    n't dare aim long an' could n't do
                                    much. 'Forelong four of us wuz hit; two roight through
                                    the brains, an' the others bad hurt. Still the Injuns
                                    did n't rush in, but kipt a-shootin'
                                    an' a scrachin' an'
                                    a-callin' in to us what they'd do whin they
                                    tuk us. We stuck roight to worrk, fer we knowed all our lives
                                    an' those of the wimmen an' childer depinded
                                    on our kapin' the divils out av the stockade.
                              "Mebbe if they'd kipt on them same tactics, we
                                    moight 've held 'em; but 'long about
                                    one in the mornin' they tried a trick. First they begun
                                    to shoot in burnin' arrers, but we managed to put
                                    'em all out. Thin they went to Sile Johnson's
                                    barn an' got his wagon, filled it up with fodder
                                    an' hay, an' dry bresh, an' thin
                                    brung it down to the edge av the clairin'. There they
                                    sot the load afoire; an' a dozen, led by the big naygur
                                    who brought that message yisterday backed it down plumb agin the
                                    southeast blockhouse. They kipt behint the wagon so well we
                                    could n't see much av 'em as they come on; but
                                    as they run fer kiver agin I managed to plant a ball in the
                                    naygur's back."
                              "Thank God fer that!" interjected Sergeant
                                    Armstrong.
                              
                              "We seen to wanst that we wuz done fer,"
                                    continued the old man after taking another drink of water.
                                    "The flames cotched roight onto the buildin',
                                    an' they wuz n't more than a dozen buckets of
                                    wather in the fort. Soon the hull corner wuz a-blazin'
                                    up, an' nigh nothin' could be done. We
                                    gethered the wimmen an' childer into one av the cabins.
                                    We had n't more'n done so afore the whole crew
                                    come racin' up to the corner where the foire wuz. Hid
                                    by the shmoke an' flames, they soon busted in, a short
                                    fat Injun with scars on his face an' a big one-eyed
                                    Frinchman leadin'."
                              "Reparti!" said Randolph, a world of meaning in
                                    his voice. "May heaven forgive me for not killing the
                                    fiend when I had the chance!"
                              "What follered wuz hell. The whole crew jumped on us loike
                                    wolves on a deer. In half a minute I wuz the only man lift alive
                                    or oncaptured. I backed into a corer with a' axe in me
                                    hands, an' I split the skull of the first Injun that
                                    come on. Another sthruck me in the side with his knife, but I
                                    caved his head in too. Just thin the fat chief come
                                    runnin' up. 'Fore I could git me balance agin,
                                    he sthruck me with his tomahawk. I did n't have no
                                    strength afther that, an' toppled over. He hit me
                                    twicet more, thin tuk his scalpin knife an' tore the
                                    whole top av me head off. an' run away
                                    scrachin' an' wavin' it about.
                              "Still I wuz n't dead yit. I knowed I had to die,
                                    but I wanted to live long enough tell me story me to somebody
                                    that could avenge us. I seen 'em break into the cabin
                                    where the wimmen an' childer were. I seen em'
                                    kill pore little babes, an' me with not strength enough
                                    to lift a finger. A big Injun grabbed little Barnaby be the hair
                                    an' wuz about to scalp him, whin the chief
                                    that'd kilt me stopped him. Ellen, too, they did
                                    n't hurt, fer the big Frinchman protected her. They tuk
                                    everything they had a mind to, includin' most av the clothes off the dead;
                                    an' finally afther shoutin' an'
                                    scrachin' an' dancin' fer about
                                    a' hour they sot off, takin' Ellen, Barnaby,
                                    an' about a dozen other wimmen an' childer,
                                    with Tom Cohoon, Bill Hicks, an' Hermann Weiser, who
                                    they'd overpowered whin they bruk into the
                                    stockade.
                              "Afther they'd gone the foire spread to most av
                                    the other buildin's. I seen that if I did n't
                                    move, I'd be roasted to death, so I managed to crawl
                                    outside. Towards mornin' old Ring, who'd been
                                    off huntin' durin' the noight--one av his ould
                                    thricks--come home an' found me. Whin the sun got hot,
                                    I crawled in here. I'd've died long ago if I
                                    had n't been detarmined to live till I could tell what
                                    'came av Bamnaby an' Ellen an' the
                                    other folks."
                              As old Currin told his story the whole party of soldiers had
                                    gathered round to listen. Many were the muttered execrations
                                    with which it was punctuated. Accustomed as the borderers were
                                    to similar scenes, they had never beheld one so horrible as
                                    this. Tears partly of sorrow and partly of rage coursed down
                                    their bronzed faces.
                              The effort required to relate the tale exhausted most of the old
                                    man's remaining strength; after finishing it he fell
                                    into unconsciousness. But some whisky was forced between his
                                    lips; and presently he awoke from the stupor, though it was
                                    evident that he was failing fast.
                              "Virginians," he said, raising himself by a great
                                    effort upon one elbow, "before I go l want all of ye to
                                    swear that ye'll hunt down the crew that did this deed.
                                    I believe in God. I've tried to lead the life av a
                                    Christian. 'Vengeance is mine,' saith the
                                    Lord, 'I will repay;' but whin He writ down
                                    them words He did n't know about the diviltries av
                                    Injuns an' hell-hound Frinchmen. So I say to ye: Slay
                                    an' spare not! God will be helpin' ye.
                                    I'm satisfied to go to me grave, fer I'm an
                                    old man 'most there anyway,an' I know that I sint at least three there afore me.
                                    But save little Barnaby an' Ellen an' the
                                    other folks if ye kin. An' tell me precious little bhoy
                                    . . ."
                              He could not finish. His last vitality exhausted, he sank back upon
                                    the blankets dead.
                              "He is gone," said Barnaby, giving way to his
                                    grief.
                              "I cain't find Jenny," said Sergeant
                                    Armstrong presently. "They must've taken her
                                    with Tom. But she won't stand the
                                    journey."
                              "What air we to do, captain?" asked one of the
                                    men dubiously.
                              "Do?" said Randolph between clenched teeth.
                                    "Do? We'll follow that trail--if it leads to
                                    hell!"
                              "Praise God!" said Baraby.
                        
                        
                        
                               CHAPTER XIV
                              THE AVENGERS
                              IT was nearing noon of the next day, and the
                                    little band were climbing a steep mountain slope covered with
                                    laurel thickets that afforded a thousand opportunities for their
                                    wolf-hearted foe to lie in ambush. All were on foot, for wild
                                    wastes of cliffs and crags had long since compelled them to
                                    abandon their horses. A little ahead hurried Barnaby and
                                    Randolph following a fiercely eager hound; behind,
                                    uncomplaining, toiled the others.
                              "Look there!" said Randolph, stopping short. He
                                    pointed to a heap of clothing that lay beside the trail. Barnaby
                                    sprang forward and held up a piece of linsey-woolsey.
                              "'T is part of Ellen's
                                    petticoat," he said, after a hurried examination.
                                    " I reckon these are from the dresses of the other
                                    women. The Injuns've bobbed off the bottoms so the
                                    captives can walk faster."
                              "'T is a sure sign the prisoners air
                                    tirin'," said Sergeant Armstrong, who had just
                                    come up. "I've seed it from their tracks.
                                    'T won't be long afore we'll be
                                    seein' some mom hellish work of the tomahak. My pore
                                    sister'll be one of the first to suffer. She's
                                    expectin' a baby soon, an' she can't
                                    go far."
                              Barnaby's face was working in a way that was pitiful to
                                    see. "Ellen's strong," he said, in a
                                    half-choked voice; "but I don't know whether
                                    me little boy'll be able to keep up."
                              
                              "I know he will!" Randolph
                                    declared optimistically, though he dared not look in his
                                    comrade's face. "He's a chip off the
                                    old block, Barnaby. He'll never give up. He's
                                    a little shaver now; but he 'll be a rip-roarer, a
                                    regular swinge cat, when he's grown up--you'll
                                    see! If a prisoner keeps up, he is n't in much danger
                                    on the march, and we'll catch up with them before they
                                    reach Duquesne or the Indian villages."
                              Toward mid-afternoon the pursuers came to the deserted camp where
                                    the enemy had spent the preceding night. Some rude branch
                                    couches and shelters showed that an effort had been made, if not
                                    to secure the prisoners' comfort, at least to conserve
                                    their strength; while the scattered bones of a couple of deer
                                    proved there had been food.
                              "What is this?" asked Randolph, holding up a
                                    small rude hoop that he found upon a bush.
                              "'T is a sculp-drier," said Sergeant
                                    Armstrong. "See the long white hairs clingin'
                                    to it. Oh, the bloody devilsl"
                              The pursuit was kept up until well after nightfall and was renewed
                                    next morning before sunrise. Toward noon the trail led over
                                    another mountain ridge. Half-way up the ascent, Ring turned
                                    aside from the trail into a laurel thicket and began to whine
                                    piteously. Barnaby and Randolph found him, with the hair on his
                                    neck and back fiercely erect, standing over the body of a
                                    woman.
                              "It isn't Ellen," said Barnaby, with
                                    infinite relief. When Sergeant Armstrong came up and saw the
                                    mutilated form, his face turned ashen. "It's
                                    Jenny!" he groaned, dropping upon his knees.
                                    "My pore little sister!"
                              They placed the body tenderly in the hollow made by an uprooted
                                    tree and covered it as best they could with sods and stones.
                                    Then, with increased resolution, they took up again their errand
                                    of vengeance. Two hours later they came to the second camp of
                                    the enemy. It was abeautiful spot
                                    beneath widepreading beeches that shaded a clear spring of pure
                                    water, But it was place of horror. Close beside the spring stood
                                    a fire-withered sapling, at whose foot lay a charred and
                                    blackened heap around which the pursuers hovered in awful
                                    silence.
                              "A wicked deed has been done here," muttered
                                    Randolph hoarsely, his hands opening and closing convulsively.
                                    "Yet the Frenchmen who witnessed it tolerated it,
                                    perhaps encouraged it!"
                              While they still stared in fascination, they were startled by the
                                    sound of a voice. Looking up, they saw a white man running
                                    toward them from the direction that the enemy had taken.
                              "It'sTom Cohoon!" Sergeant Armstrong
                                    cried "How'd you git away, Tom?"
                              The fugitive's clothing was torn, and he was so breathless
                                    that for some minutes he was unable to articulate a word.
                                    "I bruk loose--jumped into a thicket--an' give
                                    em' the slip--but the varmints are on my
                                    trail," he at last gasped out.
                              "Jenny's killed. We buried her," said
                                    the sergeant, his lips twitching.
                              "I know;" said Cohoon, and his youthful, almost
                                    boyish, face bore the look of an old man. "She give
                                    out, an' they killed her with their tomahawks. I was so
                                    far ahead I could n't do nothin'. The fat
                                    chief hit the first lick. Bill Hicks knocked him down with his
                                    fst. That's why they burned Bill. Poor fellow, they
                                    treated him awful! But he kept tellin' 'em
                                    they was brave men that would avenge him. I couldn't
                                    bear to think of Jenny's bein' left to the
                                    wolves, so I took a slim chance to git away, an' come
                                    back to bury her."
                              "How are Ellen an' me little boy?"
                                    Barnaby asked imploringly.
                              
                              "Ellen fainted while they was torturin' Hick, but
                                    she seemed strong this mornin'," said Cohoon.
                                    "Barnaby's tough as hickory. He's
                                    showed such grit that the Injuns've kinder took to him.
                                    I should n't wonder if they'd adopt him to
                                    take the place of one of the bucks we killed when they took the
                                    fort."
                              "How many devils are there?" asked Randolph.
                              "Thirty-seven Injuns an' two Frenchers. Eight
                                    Injuns was killed takin' the fort. Two others are
                                    wounded some, an' that makes the whole party move
                                    slower. Four are after me."
                              "How do you know that?" asked Randolph.
                              "I seed 'em follerin' from the top of
                                    tha hill back yonder. They was about a mile behind. I mixed up
                                    my trail agood deal, but they'll be along after a bit.
                                    You'uns want to be watchin' out!"
                              A look of exultation that was almost fiendish flashed into
                                    Randolph's face. "They shall never go
                                    back!" he cried. "Virginians! this is our
                                    first chance for vengeance! Barnaby, take four of the men and
                                    post them in good cover alongside the trail. Let the pursuers
                                    pass you and get into this open spae. Then I and my men will
                                    fire on them from that thicket yonder. If any try to escape, you
                                          must get them!"
                              "Trust us for that!"' said Barnaby.
                              "Yes!" cried Armstrong, with an oath.
                                    'I'd like to ketch one of the varmints.
                                    I'd skin him alive!"
                              Some of the men growled their approval, for their fiercest passions
                                    were aroused.
                              "Silence!" ordered Randolph sternly.
                                    "I'll have no more talk like that. To your
                                    posts, and put at least three bullets in each red
                                    hide!"
                              The dispositions were quickly made; soon every man was crouching
                                    behind some leafy covert, waiting with tremblingeagerness for the coming of the foe. A
                                    flock of brilliant green and orange parrakeets kept up a harsh
                                    chatter in some neighboring trees, but presently flew noisily
                                    away. For a time all was silence. Then, in the direction from
                                    which Cohoon had come, a brown thrush began to scold. Soon four
                                    be-feathered painted forms came hurrying along the trail among
                                    the trees. Two of them wore plumes of the war eagle braided in
                                    their long scalp-locks; a third bad adorned himself with the
                                    shaggy horned frontlet of a buffalo; and the fourth had rendered
                                    himself even more hideous than any of his companions by donning
                                    a grinning headdress of panther skin. All were young warriors,
                                    each anxious doubtless for the fugitive's scalp, in
                                    order that he might become a mighty man with the maidens of his
                                    village. With beady eyes bent toward the ground, they passed
                                    Barnaby's party and all unsuspectingly entered the
                                    fatal open space where the camp had stood.
                              "Fire!" cried Randolph.
                              The ten rifles sounded as one shot; three of the savages fell. The
                                    fourth, slightly wounded, turned and bounded back the way he had
                                    come. He ran merely to his death. Barnaby's men
                                    discharged their rifles, and the fugitive fell with all four
                                    bullets through his body.
                              Barnaby himself had not fired. At the instant Randolph gave the
                                    order the Irishman had glanced back along the trail, and, to his
                                    horror, had beheld, a hundred yards away, a fifth Indian, who
                                    whirled about and sprang away like a deer. His first bound
                                    carried him into a depression where he was out of range, but
                                    beyond this depression lay a rod or so of open grund on the
                                    further side of which stood a thicket. Barnaby knew well that if
                                    the warrior once reached this thicket he would be safe from
                                    pursuit. All hope of rescuing the prisoners would then be gone.
                                    Upon Barnaby rested the fate of the enterprise. Tremblingly he
                                          waited for the fugitive to
                                    appear upon the other side. As the tufted head and painted body
                                    once more came into view he raised his rifle. The eternal hills
                                    were not more steady than was his weapon at the moment it poured
                                    forth its fatal contents. The savage, stricken by the pursuing
                                    bullet, fell with one hand grasping the first bush of the
                                    thicket that would have afforded him safety.
                              Randolph uttered a great shout of thanksgiving. "That shot
                                    saved everything!" he cried. "Run, some of
                                    you, and make sure that he is dead. God is with us! W cannot
                                    fail!"
                              Three minutes later five tufts of coarse black hair were dangling
                                    from the belts of as many stern frontiersmen. Randolph had
                                    looked on grimly with no word of chiding. Then, leaving the
                                    bodies to the wolves and vultures, the little band of avengers,
                                    accompanied by Cohoon, armed with one of his erstwhile
                                    captors' guns, again took up the pursuit.
                              Some miles further on they came to where the trall crossed the
                                    sand-bar of a creek. A little to one side of where most of the
                                    enemy and captives had walked Barnaby paused for a long time
                                    examining something.
                              "What is it?" asked Randolph, walking up to
                                    him.
                              The lieutenant pointed to some footprints in the moist sand.
                                    "Those were made by Ellen an' me little
                                    Barnaby, he said. And Randolph saw some glistening drops fall
                                    into the sand.
                              Randolph put his hand on his friend's shoulder.
                                    "Take heart!" he said. "Please God,
                                    in another day you shall have them again."
                              "Look here!" cried Barnaby, pointing to a spot
                                    further up the bar. Printed in the smooth sand were the
                                    words:
                              
                              "BARNABY AND ELLEN ARE WELL. GOOD-BY TO
                                    DADDY."
                              "They knew I'd foller! They knew I would, if I
                                    had to alone!" the father cried, and there was a world
                                    of love and resolution in his voice. "Be strong, Ellen
                                    an' me little boy, daddy'as
                                          comin'!"
                              
                              That night the pursuers supped right royally on the flesh of an elk
                                    that Randolph ventured to shoot in a deep valley from whence the
                                    sound of his rifle would not carry. Next morning they made an
                                    early start, and sunrise found them on the headwaters of the
                                    Monongahela.
                              Here a dificult problem presented itself. The trail showed that the
                                    main body of the enemy had followed the river bank toward Fort
                                    Duquesne, but that three or four had struck off to the northward
                                    as if steering for Venango, Fort Le Bœuf, or
                                    Presqu'isle.
                              Barnaby examined the two trails for a long time in silence. Finally
                                    he pointed to some impressions in the soft forest mold along the
                                    one that led to the northward and said:
                              "Those tracks were made by the two Frenchers. See how the
                                    toes turn out. The big ones are Repardi's. Two Injuns
                                    are with him, but I don't see the tracks of any of the
                                    prisoners."
                              "Then they must be with the other party," said
                                    Randolph.
                              "Some of them are," said Barnaby doubtfully.
                                    "I've found the print of Ellen's shoe
                                    over by that sycamore."
                              Ring was undecided which trail to follow, but finally seemed to
                                    wish to pursue the Frenchmen. But when the pusuers took the
                                    other trail, he soon grew reconciled. By late in the afternoon
                                    it was evident that the enemycould
                                    not be far ahead. Fearing discovery if they continued the
                                    pursuit in the daytime, the Virginians hid in a thicket,
                                    intending to follow in the night and attack the enemy in their
                                    camp. After nightfall they again moved forward, the eager hound
                                    showing the trail. Through the dark forest skirting the river
                                    they crept slowly expecing every moment to catch sight of the
                                    enemy's campfires. But presently, a little distance
                                    below some rapids, the trail led out upon a wide bar. The hound
                                    followed it tothe water's edge, and there came to a
                                    halt.
                              "My God, I'm fearin' they've
                                    taken to boats!" whispered Barnaby anxiously.
                              "We'll go back and try again," Randolph
                                    said. They cast back upon the trail for a couple of hundred
                                    yards. But again the hound returned to the river.
                              "That settles it," said Barnaby despairingly.
                                    "They've gone by water. That dog has more
                                    sense than most humans. I reckon they hid their boats here on
                                    the way to attack."
                              "What's to be done?" asked Ranldolph
                                    blankly. "They will now travel faster than we
                                    can."
                              For some moments Barnaby was too much unnerved to answer. Then he
                                    gave great gasp and was himself again
                              "They took to their boats so late this afternoon that they
                                    must have camped after going eight or ten miles," he
                                    said thoughtfully.
                              "But they would camp on the other side, on the chance that
                                    there might be pursuit," objected Randolph.
                              "True, an' we'd have a hard time
                                    crossin' the river in the dark, even if we found
                                    'em," Barnaby agreed. "But I was
                                    thinkin' of another way. About thirty miles below here
                                    by river are some mome rapids that I saw last summer on a scout.
                                    They're so choked up with drifts that boats
                                    can't run 'em, and a carry has to be made by
                                    the bank we're on. The
                                    river is so crooked that the distance by land is n't
                                    more than twelve or fifteen miles, I reckon. We might try to
                                    reach the rapids before 'em, an' attack as
                                    they make the carry."
                              "It's the best plan," said Randolph,
                                    hope rising once more. "If we reach the portage before
                                    them, we can surprise them more easily than we could in their
                                    camp. Men, are you ready for the venture?"
                              "We'll walk a hundred miles if you say the word,
                                    captain," said one of the men, and the others uttered
                                    exclamations of assent.
                              With Barnaby in the lead, and throwing all precautions against
                                    ambuscade to the winds, they plunged once more into the forest.
                                    Through thickets and swamps filled with rank and noxious weeds,
                                    over prostrate trees and rugged hills, they made their desperate
                                    way, heedless of bruises and torn hands. Not a man faltered or
                                    made complaint; yet so dificult was the way that when the sun
                                    rose, a third of the distance was still to go. But by the
                                    welcome light progress was much faster. In an hour they began to
                                    hear the thunder of the rapids, and presently came out upon the
                                    river bank some distance below them. Without losing an instant,
                                    they ran to the carrying place.
                              "Praise be! There hain't no fresh
                                    tracks!" Armstrong cried exultantly.
                              "Luck is with us again," said Randolph, no less
                                    joyfully. "We'll lay an ambush and
                                    give'em such a surprise as they never dreamed of
                                    before!"
                              The place was admirably suited for such a purpose. On the opposite
                                    side of the river there rose from the water's edge a
                                    perpendicular wall of rock impossible of ascent. At its foot the
                                    cramped river plunged down a steep declivity so choked with
                                    rocks and great uprooted trees that a passage would be to the
                                    last degree hazardous. On the side onwhich the pursuers stood, an eddy swept
                                    up to a convenient landing place, from which a short path led to
                                    the river below. Beside the path lay a dense thicket; in this
                                    the pursuers hid themselves.
                              "Men," said Randolph calmly, though he raised his
                                    voice in order to be heard above the roar of the rapids,
                                    "they out number us more than two to one, and our only
                                    hope lies in a complete surprise. We must not attack until the
                                    prisoners are so close to us that we can at once gather round
                                    them, or their fate is sealed. Remember that only the shots that
                                    hit count. Don't waste two bullets on the same man. At
                                    the camp too many of us aimed at the same warrior. We
                                    can't afford to do that this time.
                                    McCullough," he addressed the man furthest down the
                                    river, "when we fire, you are to shoot the warrior in
                                    the lead, though if any have reëmbarked, let them
                                    go."
                              He called each of the men by name and designated which of the enemy
                                    he was to fire at. "If we all get a man apiece or do
                                    nearly that well, some of the others will be sure to run.
                                    We'll then rush in and fight it out man to man with the
                                    rest. Heaven willing, we'll save our friends and teach
                                    these red wolves a lesson they'll never
                                    forget."
                              "Remember what we've seen an' suffered,
                                    boys!" cried Barnaby, his face that of some avenging
                                    Nemesis. "'T is victory or death for us
                                    an' those we love! Up yonder"--he pointed to
                                    the sky--"is One who will aid us!"
                              They had not long to wait. From around a bend far above there
                                    presently flew a little flock of wood ducks, followed soon by a
                                    crested kingfisher, uttering his strident cry. Then, one by one,
                                    appeared five birch canoes and a heavier wooden bateau filled
                                    with the enemy and the captives. The paddles, flashing in the
                                    morning sunlight, rose and fell with rhythmical precision. Aided
                                    by the current, the flotilla was soon so near that the
                                          occupantscould be plainly
                                    seen. The first three canoes contained only savages whose
                                    painted bodies were partially clad in garments taken from the
                                    murdered settlers. The remaining canoes and the bateau carried
                                    both warriors and prisoners. Near the stern of the bateau sat
                                    Ellen Currin, a pathetic figure. Litle Barnaby was nowhere to be
                                    seen.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XV
                              THE FIGHT AT THE RAPIDS
                               "FROM his post in the thicket Randolph
                                    noted with deep concern that the three canoes containing only
                                    warriors were some distance in advance of the others. He began
                                    to fear that they would reach the portage too soon. So it fell
                                    out. When the foremost canoe, propelled with vigorous paddle
                                    strokes out of the swift current that threatened to sweep it
                                    into the rapids, touched the landing place, the seven warriors
                                    in it sprang ashore and, lifting it out of the water, began to
                                    carry it along the portage. The warriors in the next two canoes
                                    did likewise, and so it happened that more than half the enemy
                                    came abreast of the ambush at a time when the canoes containing
                                    the captives had either just reached the landing place or had
                                    entered the eddy above it.
                              Randolph now began to think that after all the circumstance might
                                    favor the rescuers. He delayed giving the signal to fire in the
                                    hope that the foremost savages might pass on and the immediate
                                    attack be made on those having charge of the prisoners. It
                                    required much self-control to wait quietly and watch the painted
                                    murderous band at whose belts swung grewsome evidences of their
                                    bloody work file past; but all the frontiersmen saw the great
                                    advantage which would be gained if some of their foes were to
                                    reëmbark before the fight began, so, with fingers itching for
                                    the trigger, they repressed their rising indignation. But that
                                    so many alert enemies, with senses keen as thewolves of the forest, should pass the
                                    ambush without discovering it proved too much to hope for. One
                                    of the warriors carrying the third canoe, a stalwart son of the
                                    wilderness wearing a coat that Barnaby recognized as having
                                    belonged to his father, chanced to glance into the thicket and
                                    perceived the protruding muzze of a rifle. Instantly he released
                                    the canoe as if it had been converted into red hot iron, and his
                                    mouth flew open.
                              The bullet from Barnaby's rifle cut short the yell of
                                    warning. Without waiting for any other signal the whole body of
                                    rescuers poured in a volley so well directed that it struck down
                                    a dozen other warriors. Three or four of the survivors sprang
                                    away in terror-stricken flight; most of the remainder discharged
                                    their fusils hastily and ineffectively into the thicket; but a
                                    few of the more experienced fired coolly and with fatal effect
                                    at the white forms that with ou shouts and ourished weapons came
                                    leaping out upon them.
                              "Save the prisoners!" cried Ranodolph and Barnaby
                                    in the same breath. Followed by Sergeant Armstrong, Cohoon, and
                                    three or four others, they sprang toward the landing place,
                                    leaving the rest of the Virginians engaged in a hand-to-hand
                                    struggle in which clubbed gums, tomahawks, and long knives all
                                    played a deadly part, while the wild clamor of the combat rose
                                    even above the roar of the rapids. The savages who guarded the
                                    prisoners were not in good position for defense. One of the
                                    canoes had just been lifted ashore, and the warriors who had
                                    occupied it had not yet taken up their guns when the surprise
                                    came. One of them succeeded in snatching up his weapon and
                                    firing a shot that struck down the sergeant gasping and dying,
                                    but both he and his two companions fell an instant later under a
                                    hail of blows from the irate Virginians.
                              At the moment the fight began, the fifth canoe had just reached the landing place. It contained
                                    three warriors, five women and children, and Hermann Weiser, the
                                    sole remaining man captive. Weiser was an enormous Pennsylvania
                                    Dutchman, the slowness of whose mental operations had become a
                                    byword among his neighbors. But on this occasion he displayed a
                                    courage and nimbleness of wit that gained for him the respect of
                                    all backwoodsmen, and no man thereafter was ever known to joke
                                    about "Hermann's thick-headedness."
                                    Throwing his great weight to one side of the frail canoe, he
                                    overturned it, spilling all its occupants into the river and
                                    wetting the rifles of the warriors. The water was mercifully
                                    shallow; and grasping the two children, the Dutchman waded to
                                    the shore with them, safely followed by the half-drowned women.
                                    There he dropped his burden, caught up a convenient boulder, and
                                    turned on his captors. He did so none too soon, for one of them
                                    was just aiming a blow at him with a tomahawk. Weiser caught the
                                    uprased arm with his left hand, and brought the boulder down
                                    with sufficient force upon the tufted head. A second savage
                                    sprang upon his back. The two wrestled with each other, now upon
                                    the sandy beach, now in the shallow water beside it, the
                                    guttural cries of the savage mingling with the deep Dutch oaths
                                    of the aroused settler. Once the savage managed to draw a knife
                                    from his belt, but the doughty Dutchman wrested it from his
                                    grasp, and it fell in the water out of the reach of either. At
                                    last, as they lay prostrate with the white man on top, Weiser
                                    seized the warrior's head with both his vast hands and
                                    put all his strength into a great wrench. There was a sickening
                                    crunch, and the settler rose from the twitching tawny body of
                                    his foe. Meanwhile an equally desperate struggle was taking
                                    place for the bateau, which contained four warriors, Ellen
                                    Currin, and five other captive women. At the momentwhen the rescuers came charging down to
                                    the landing place, the vessel was some yards from the shore; but
                                    its momentum, aided by an eddy, caused it to touch the land; and
                                    Cohoon, coming up that instant, seized it. Barnaby had also made
                                    directly for it; but one of the Indians who had been in the
                                    canoe with Weiser sprang in his way, and a contest was
                                    unavoidable. Before it was decided the great hound leaped upon
                                    his master's antagonist, and dog and savage came to the
                                    ground together. Thus relieved, Barnaby ran to where the savage
                                    in the bow of the bateau was striking Cohoon blow after blow
                                    with a tomahawk, while his comrades were desperately backing
                                    water with their paddles. But Cohoon, utterly careless of life,
                                    and inspired by a consuming desire for vengeance, held on
                                    doggedly until a blow pierced his brain and he fell forward into
                                    the water a dead man. Freed from Cohoon's detaining
                                    grasp, the bateau was quiddy a dozen feet from shore. It was at
                                    this instant that Barnaby came bounding up. With a light leap he
                                    cleared the interval and landed upright in the bow.
                              "Barnaby!" exclaimed Ellen, gladly yet fearfully.
                                    "Barnaby!"
                              "Lie down" cried Banahy to the prisoners, who
                                    fortunately were nearer the stern than were their captors.
                              And now ensued a grim conflict that for generations was told round
                                    the firesides of the border. If ever man was endowed with
                                    supernatural strength and skill and daring, this was the
                                    occasion and Barnaby Currin was the man. Before him were four
                                    warriors, each armed with a loaded gun. As the first raised his
                                    weapon to fire, Barnaby delivered a quick blow with his clubbed
                                    rifle that laid him bleeding in the bottom of the bateau. The
                                    second savage attempted to grapple with his antagonist, but was
                                    tossed out into the river as though he had been an infant.
                                          Thesavage nearest the stern
                                    then aimed his gun; but, before he could pull the trigger,
                                    Ellen, who alone of the prisoners had disobeyed
                                    Banaby's order, splashed a handful of water into the
                                    firing-pan, and the falling flint failed to ignite the charge.
                                    At the same instant the barrel of Barnaby's rifle
                                    descended with withering force on the head of his third
                                    antagonist.
                              "The rapids! the rapids! We are drifting into the
                                    rapids!" cried Ellen.
                              It was true. The bateau had been hurled out of the eddy and was
                                    floating broadside on to destruction. Ahead the river plunged
                                    with monotonous roar down a steep decline filled with jagged
                                    rocks and the mighty trunks of uprooted trees, round which the
                                    reckless surges dashed and bounded in the sunlight like tigers
                                    at play. Both white man and Indian looked and saw the danger. As
                                    if by mutual consent, they dropped their weapons, and catching
                                    up paddles, began an equally desperate battle with the watery
                                    element. To upset meant certain death for the women and probably
                                    for the men also, for in that swirling torrent even the most
                                    powerful swimmer could not keep his head above the surface for
                                    an instant. Even as the two foemen settled to their work, they
                                    saw the warrior whom Barnaby had thrown from the canoe dashed
                                    with resistless force against a rock and then disappear from
                                    view. It seemed impossible that the bateau, heavy and
                                    unmanageable as it was, could be brought through in safety. But
                                    the Indian was the best boatman of his tribe, while Barnaby
                                    himself was not without some skill upon the water. Working
                                    instinctively together, they managed to keep the craft out of
                                    the fierce surges that threatened to engulf it. A projecting
                                    rock rose full in their path, but a cunning and powerful stroke
                                    of the red man's paddle sent the craft glancing swiftly
                                    into the open current. Down they went,amid the screams of the women, on the
                                    final plunge into a foaming caldron, where the curling waves
                                    swept in deluges over the gunwales. But the boat righted
                                    herself, and, though well-nigh sinking, was soon riding
                                    peacefully in the eddy below the carrying place, beside the dead
                                    body of the warrior who had gone through the rapids before
                                    it.
                              Barnaby at once snatched up his weapon to renew the conflict. But
                                    the savage had no mind to take his chance against the white
                                    demon who had destroyed his three comrades. Shaking off the
                                    feeble grasp which one of the women had bravely ventured to lay
                                    upon him, he dived headlong into the river; and the bedraggled
                                    feathers of his scalp-lock did not appear again until he was
                                    many yards down stream. After a hurried breath he vanished
                                    again, and the last the occupants of the bateau saw of him he
                                    was wading ashore toward a dark thicket. Barnaby made no effort
                                    to pursue him, but paddled hastily to the shore, where the
                                    sounds of conflict had ceased.
                              The battle there was also over. Five white men lay dead or dying;
                                    six others, including Randolph, who had a knife thrust through
                                    one of his arms, were more or less seriously wounded; the
                                    gallant Ring was bleeding from a great gash in his side, but was
                                    still worrying the mangled throat of the savage who had
                                    inflicted it. Such was the price of victory. Yet it could hardly
                                    be said that the price was high. Of the twenty-eight warriors
                                    who had entered the conflict, only nine had escaped; their
                                    prisoners were free.
                              "Where is our little boy?" were
                                    Barnaby's first anxious words to Ellen.
                              "They separated us," she cried tearfully,
                                    throwing herself into her husband's arms. When we came to the
                                    headwaters of the river, Captain Reparti, the other Frenchman,
                                    the chief whom they call Le Chat, and another Indian carried him
                                    away with them. I implored, got down uponmy knees, but they would not relent. The
                                    last I saw of my precious boy he was struggling in the
                                    chief's arms and crying good-by."
                              The father's face turned ashen; he leaned against a tree
                                    for support.
                              "That explains," he groaned, why Ring wanted to
                                    follow that trail. But why did they wish my boy? Why did they
                                    take him?"
                              "Captain Reparti and the chief in some way found out that
                                    he is your son and that you took part in the rescue of
                                    Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre. He swore horribly about you and
                                    Captain Randolph. He took our boy to be revenged on
                                    you."
                               "What a devil!" gnashed Barnaby. "Where
                                    are they making for?"
                              "For a camp of Indians and French on Loyalhannon Creek.
                                    From there they intend to go to Quebec, to which Reparti has
                                    been transferred. Oh, Barnaby, I fear we shall never see our
                                    little boy again!"
                              Barnaby comforted her as best he could, and then sought Randolph.
                                    He found him tying up the wound in his arm--pale but still able
                                    to give orders.
                              "I have heard," Randolph said regretfully.
                                    "What does Ellen know?"
                              After hearing the story, Randolph remained silent for some time.
                                    Finally he said huskily: "Before God, old friend, I
                                    can't tell you how sorry I am we could not rescue both.
                                    Some time we shall. But now the other party are beyond our
                                    reach. Before we could strike their trail again they would be at
                                    the camp on Loyalhannon. We can do nothing."
                              "I know," sad Barnaby doggedly; "but it
                                    doesn't make it any the easier to bear."
                              "I think of one thing that may prove of
                                          advantage,"said
                                    Randolph, deeply touched. "This place is certain to be
                                    visited soon by Frenchmen from Duquesne. I will leave a written
                                    offer signed by me of five hundred pounds for the boy's
                                    safe return, and I will send similar offers to Quebec. Barnaby,
                                    if I thought a larger sum would prove more effective, I would
                                    gladly offer it; but to do so might give rise to doubts of my
                                    sincerity. The offer will at least render them less apt to
                                    murder him."
                              The father could only look his gratitude.
                              "Take courage! we'll have him yet! A child is
                                    safer among them than a grown person would be. They may adopt
                                    him as Cohoon--poor fellow!--thought they
                                    intended."
                              "Yet another thing," Randolph continued, seized
                                    by a sudden inspiration. "They are taking him to the
                                    region of Quebec. I have long felt that I should like to serve
                                    in that quarter, for it is there the decisive blows will
                                    ultimately be struck, and I hope to see a British fleet and army
                                    before the city. We'll resign, Barnaby, and volunteer
                                    in one of the northern regiments. In this way we shall be
                                    brought nearer your boy. We may be able to play a part in the
                                    overthrow of the power that has made these horrors possible.
                                    Ellen shall stay at Eastover. This time I will take no refusal.
                                    It needs some capable woman to preside over the household. Some
                                    day we'll sail up the Potomac with your boy. What a
                                    homecoming that will be!"
                              Hope catches at straws. Improbable as was the happy outcome that
                                    Randolph pictured, Barnaby crushed down the awful dread that
                                    gripped his heart, and grasped his captain's hand.
                                    "It's a great debt I'm
                                    layin' up to you, Charles," he said.
                                    "A man never had a better friend than
                                    you."
                              And thus quickly was a decision made that, by strange chance, was
                                    to affect not only the careers of individuals,but also the fortunes of two great
                                    empires in their struggle for a continent.
                              Into the details of the painful march of the little band of
                                    rescuers and rescued back to the settlements it is needless to
                                    enter here, It is sufficient to say that the march was made in
                                    safety, and that the fame of the exploit filled the border and
                                    traveled even to Philadelphia, New York, and Boston. Soon after
                                    his return, Randolph set Colonel Washington and other powerful
                                    Virginia friends to work, and by December he and Lieutenant
                                    Currin held commissions in the Sixtieth Regiment of Royal
                                    Americans stationed at Fort Edward on the river Hudson.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XVI
                              A CHANGE OF SCENE
                              ON a stormy evening in the following February
                                    Lieutenant Barnaby Currin sat alone in his quarters before a
                                    fire of pine logs, thinking of the progress of the war.
                              The retrospect was as cheerless as the weather outside, for except
                                    in far away Bengal, where a grocer's clerk named Robert
                                    Clive had won a battle called Plassey, the year had been one of
                                    continuous disaster to British arms. While the incompetent Earl
                                    of Loudon, who was compared to St. George on the tavern
                                    signs,--always on horseback but never going
                                    forward,--compacently frittered away precious time raising
                                    cabbages at Halifax instead of capturing Louisburg, the French,
                                    with consummate craft, had delivered a counter-stroke. For
                                    months from every point of the horizon, painted warriors had
                                    been gathering at Montreal to assist their Canadian father; and
                                    never before had representatives of so many tribes been
                                    assembled under the fleur-de-lis. In August Montcalm had led
                                    this motley host and a force of French and Canadian troops to
                                    the head of Lake George, had captured Fort William Henry, and
                                    had spread terror throughout the Colonies. In Europe the
                                    campaign had been scarcely more encouraging, and Frederick of
                                    Prussia, after a brave struggle against hordes of enemies
                                    swarming in from every quarter from which the wind blew, seemed
                                    at the end of his tether.
                              
                              "It's been a long, long lane," the
                                    Irishman said wearily to himself; "but I can't
                                    see no turnin' yet."
                              The cabin door opened, admitting a flurry of snow and the figure of
                                    a man wrapped in furs.
                              Barnaby sprang to his feet. "Tarnation, but I'm
                                    glad you're back!" he exclaimed. "I
                                    need somebody to cheer me up. How's
                                    Albany?"
                              The newcomer divested himself of his cloaks and wraps, disclosing
                                    the face and figure of Randolph. "Gay and
                                    ungodly," he said cheerily, drawing nearer the
                                    fire,--"at least, so says Dominic Freylinghuysen. The
                                    town's at sixes and sevens over the performance of The Beaux' Stratagem and The Recruiting
                                          Officer--abominations say the pious, delightful say
                                    the profane. I've had a grand time, and have news! Great News!
                                    glorious news!--from Europe."
                              Like the flashing of fire from flint and steel a look of hope
                                    leaped into Barnaby's face at the word
                                    "news," only to die out again at the last
                                    phrase. "What is it, Charles?" he asked
                                    unsteadily, and sank back into his chair.
                              "King Frederick has performed the impossible!"
                                    Randolph cried, not noticing his friend's perturbation.
                                    "He has beaten the French, the Imperialists, the
                                    Austrians!"
                              "Faith, an' he must be like a catamount--worst
                                    when cornered!"
                              Randolph sat down and spread out his hands to the grateful blaze.
                                    "One must go back to Greece and Rome to find anything
                                    like it," he continued, his face glowing with
                                    enthusiasm. "Our ally was in even worse plight than we
                                    thought--said good-by to his friends--was almost ready to take
                                    the poison he carries in a hollow ring. But with twenty-five
                                    thousand men he whipped sixty thousand French and Imperialists
                                    at Rossbach."
                              Barnaby sprang up and began a jig. "Long live KingFritz!" he shouted.
                                    "Down with the impresses an' Frinch concubines
                                    who're fightin' him!"
                              "The king then turned to Silesia. There all seemed lost,
                                    for Prince Charles of Lorraine with eighty thousand men bestrode
                                    the province like the Colossus of Rhodes. The Austrians were
                                    three to one, but Frederick staked all on a single battle.
                                    Prince Charles escaped into Bohemia with hardly thirty thousand
                                    men. The Russians have withdrawn to their dominions, and for the
                                    time being our grand old ally is safe."
                              "What call they the battle?"
                              "Leuthen; and I venture it will not soon be
                                    forgotten."
                              "Nor the man who won it! Why can't we have such
                                    ginerals?"
                              "The news from London is well-nigh as good,"
                                    Randolph continued. "William Pitt is the real power in
                                    the new ministry; the duke but a figurehead. 'T is said
                                    that Pitt makes all about him braver men, and that he has sworn
                                    by God eternal that he will not consent to peace until he has
                                    humbled France, destroyed her commerce, and conquered her
                                    colonial empire."
                              "Amen to that! say I," interjected Barnaby.
                              "And I also. He means to conduct the war on the grand
                                    scale. He will assist Frederick, especially with money; and for
                                    America, 't is said, he has planned three expeditions.
                                    Sir Jeffrey Amherst, an able soldier, though a cautious one, is
                                    to take Louisburg and open the river gateway to Quebec, which he
                                    will attempt in turn if the season be not too late. Another army
                                    is to perform what Braddock failed to do. The commander is
                                    Brigadier Forbes, whom Major Heyward says is a Scotch physician
                                    turned soldier, to the advantage of the army and the loss of the
                                    medical profession. May he succeed where we
                                    failed!"
                              "If he does, there'll be some returnin'
                                    to the valley of  the
                                    Shenandoah," said Barnaby unsteadily.
                                    "'T is a beautiful region, Charles, though
                                    it's been a scene of sorrow for me an'
                                    mine."
                              "We ourselves, if I mistake not, will be moving down Lake
                                    George ere many weeks pass by, under Abercromby's
                                    banners against Ticonderoga and Crown Point."
                              "And what think you of our chances of
                                    victory?"
                              Randolph looked about the room as if to make doubly sure that they
                                    were alone. Then he said in a low voice: "If Abercromby
                                    were our sole commander, I should expect another disaster like
                                    Braddock's. But my Lord Howe will have the real
                                    direction of affairs."
                              "Faith, an' he's the man I'll
                                    follow," broke forth Barnaby enthusiastically.
                                    "He's no Braddock to think with his thimbleful
                                    of brains that he knows it all an' we Buckskins
                                    don't know nothin'. He's been on
                                    scouts with Rogers, an' all the men do be
                                    likin' him. He told Rogers that he wasa fter Abercromby
                                    to have the men brown their musket barrels, cut their hair
                                    close, bob off their long coats so they won't be
                                    a-ketchin' on every bush, reduce every man,
                                    includin' the officers, to a blanket an' a
                                    bearskin for kiver, an' make the officers leave their
                                    servants, plate, an' all such truck
                                    behind."
                              "It would be God's blessing if he should succeed.
                                    Here's hoping he will, and that ere the leaves turn
                                    brown again Quebec may be ours. When that time comes, Barnaby,
                                    we'll find your boy."
                              Barnaby looked into his friend's face with an expression
                                    in his eyes that Randolph never forgot. They were blue eyes,
                                    honest and attractive, filled now with a, great yearning.
                              "Pray God we may, Charles!" the father said, with
                                    quivering lip. "But most of the time I'm
                                    fearin'. Who knows where his curly head is laid this
                                    ravin' night--if he be livin'. New France is a
                                    vast country in which tofind one
                                    little boy. For hundreds of leagues along wild rivers and broad
                                    lakes the tribes rove hither an' yon, an'
                                    while I do be seekin' him at Quebec he may be far
                                    beyond Michilimackinac or towards Hudson Bay or among the
                                    canebrakes of Louisiana. See here."
                              He fumbled in his pocket and brought forth a little bag of
                                    deerskin, which he opened, disclosing a lock of curly brown
                                    hair.
                              "'T is me little boy's. Ellen cut it off
                                    before I started on the first trip to the Ohio," he
                                    said brokenly. "I would to heaven, Charles, that the
                                    two fiends who carried him away could stand face to face with
                                    you an' me!"
                              "An' I would to God they might!"
                                    Randolph cried, with a fierce intensity almost equal to his
                                    friend's. "Something tells me sometimes that
                                    we shall meet. Do not despair, old friend. If God wills it, you
                                    shall have your boy again. We are in His hands, and time at last
                                    makes all things even."
                              
                              Before the end of the winter both Virginians had come to feel at
                                    home in their new commands. Randolph's fortune alone,
                                    without his many sterling qualities, would have insured him a
                                    favorable reception among his fellow oficers; while
                                    Barnaby's good nature and the stories which Randolph
                                    was careful to tell of the Irishman's exploits on the
                                    border gained him both respect and popularity. When summer came
                                    and the army had assembled at the head of Lake George near the
                                    desolate site of Fort William Henry, there was a grand shooting
                                    match, in which representatives of all the various regiments and
                                    corps of rangers participated; and there was no happier man in
                                    the camp than Randolph (who himself stood third) when Barnaby
                                    won the prize offered by Lord Howe, beating even the redoubtable
                                    Rogers.
                              
                              The Irishman's success doubtless had much to do with his
                                    being later intrusted with an important mission; but, for the
                                    moment, the matter was dismissed from mind, for more serious
                                    work than shooting at a mark was at hand. Randolph's
                                    information concerning English plans had been correct. On the
                                    early morning of the fifth of July the army, consisting of
                                    upwards of fifteen thousand men, of which the Sixtieth Regiment
                                    of Royal Americans formed a part, embarked in more than a
                                    thousand flatboats, whaleboats, and bateaux, and set out for the
                                    foot of the lake.
                              " What a spectacle!" cried Randolph, as he
                                    surveyed the scene. "'T is the largest army of
                                    white men ever gathered in North America. Braddok's
                                    army was an outpost beside it."
                              There was reason for his enthusiasm. The summer sun had just risen
                                    over the green summits of the craggy mountains and chased away
                                    the mists that night had gathered along the swampy shores. The
                                    silver sheen of the water was not marred by a single ripple;
                                    there was not breeze enough from the islet-studded lake to stir
                                    a blossom or a leaf. In regular precision the splendid pageant
                                    of boats, reaching almost from strand to strand, moved slowly
                                    northward. In the van went Rogers and his rangers; Gage and his
                                    light infantry with their strange caps, short jackets, and
                                    mustachioed faces; and the energetic Bradstreet, with his
                                    soberly clad boatmen and axemen. On the right and left and in
                                    the rear were the colonial troops, attired inuniorms of blue and
                                    red; in the enter, the Royal Americans, the British regulars,
                                    the tartan-clad Forty-second Highlanders (the "Black
                                    Watch"), with claymores at their sides. Ten thousand
                                    oars as they rose and fell caught the sunlight. The air was
                                    flled with the notes of bugle, bagpipe, trumpet, and drum,
                                    caught up and prolonged by a hundred echoes of the narrow
                                    lake.
                              
                              'Faith, an' it is worth
                                    comin' many a long mile to see," said Barnaby,
                                    in response to his friend's exclamation. "If
                                    our ginerals know their business, it will go hard with Mister
                                    Montcalm an' his parley
                                    voos."
                              
                              Two days passed, and the noonday sun looked down upon the army
                                    debauching out of a thick forest into a clearing beyond which,
                                    on some rising ground, rose a breastwork of raw logs.
                              "'T is a fearsome place to attack; I'm
                                    juberous of it," said Barnaby in a low voice, as he and
                                    Randolph stood at the head of their company, gazing over a
                                    tangled mass of fallen trees upon which the leaves were scarcely
                                    wilted at the flag-crowned breastwork. "One of the
                                    scouts told me that yisterday mornin' this was scarce
                                    begun, an' now look at it! If we'd kipt on the
                                    way we started, instid of backin' out like a crawfsh
                                    just because we met a scoutin' party, we'd
                                    've struck 'em before they were ready to
                                    entertain us. Look at the white hats peepin' over them
                                    logs! We'll get a pretty how-do-ye-do, or my name
                                    ain't Currin! They'll have many a fair pop at
                                    us 'fore ever we get through this bresh an'
                                    that divilish chevy-de-frizz. See how the breastwork winds in
                                    an' out so they can deliver a cross-fire. If Missus
                                    Nabbycromby cares for victory an' the lives of his
                                    soldiers, he'll bring up his cannon and batter down
                                    them logs, or else plant 'em over yonder on Rattlesnake
                                    Mountain an' take the White Hats from the rear. Or he
                                    might do a little flankin', 'stead of
                                    askin' us to butt our brains out agin them logs. But
                                    he's another damn fool like Braddock. Why could
                                    n't he have stopped that bullet yesterday instead of my
                                    Lord Howe?"
                              "We may carry it," Randolph protested, though at
                                    heart he felt as uneasy as did his lieutenant, for he knew that
                                    the unfortunate fall of the noble young lord in theskirmish of the preceding day had left
                                    the direction of affairs in the hands of one in no way equal to
                                    the responsibility. WVhen a few minutes later the colonel of the
                                    regiment asked for an officer to carry a message back to
                                    Abercromby at the Falls a mile away, Randolph sent Barnaby,
                                    rejoicing that his friend would thereby be removed from the
                                    dangers of the assault.
                              Presently the order was given to advance. Under the blazing sun
                                    Briton, Celt, and Provincial forced their way through the
                                    tangled chaos of fallen trees which disordered their ranks and
                                    delayed their progress. The bristling breastwork remained
                                    ominously silent until the first of the advancing troops neared
                                    the chevaux-de-frise, when a sheet of smoke and flame burst
                                    forth, and a storm of bullets and grape-shot swept through the
                                    ranks. Fearful as was the blast, the troops lived up to the best
                                    traditions of the British infantry. Falling by hundreds, they
                                    endeavored to push on against an enemy they could not reach,
                                    firing hasty volleys at an enemy they could not see, only to be
                                    brought to a pause by the impenetrable chevaux-de-frise. Behind
                                    their protecting breastwork the French took deliberate aim, and
                                    soon many a gay young officer whose routs and balls had not long
                                    since been a fearful joy to the simple folk of Albany hung a
                                    quivering corpse amid the withering leaves of the interlaced
                                    trees that formed the barrier. It was more than flesh and blood
                                    could stand. Slowly, defiantly, the survivors began to give
                                    ground.
                              Randolph was one of the last to leave the chevaux-de-frise. He was
                                    still desperately hacking at the impenetrable wall of sharpened
                                    branches and crying: "Forward, Royal
                                    Americans!" when a bullet entered his shoulder. Looking
                                    around him, he saw that his men were retiring, so he tottered
                                    after them. But he had not gone far when his strength gave way,
                                    and he fell to earth behind the prostrate trunkof a, great pine, which mercifully
                                    protected him from the pursuing bullets.
                              There he lay during the remainder of the battle. Again and again
                                    the British columns made their way through the labyrinth of
                                    fallen trees toward the breastwork, but always with the same
                                    result. An assault late in the afternoon upon the extreme right
                                    gave fleeting prospect of success, but was repulsed like all the
                                    others, despite the efforts of the Highlanders, who in the woods
                                    of America displayed as great heroism for the House of Hanover
                                    as ever they had shown on their native heaths for the exiled
                                    Stuarts. Seized by a panic in which their senile commander
                                    shared, the army fled from the stricken field, leaving behind
                                    them nearly two thousand dead and wounded, and, taking to their
                                    boats, retired once more to the head of Lake George. But of all
                                    these lamentable things Captain Randolph, lying unconscious
                                    behind the great tree, remained blissfully unaware.
                              But his unconsciousness was not that of death. As the night waned,
                                    his brain cleared somewhat; and when the sun was well up in the
                                    heavens, he heard a voice that seemed strangely familiar
                                    exclaim:
                              "Ahol it is our young Virginian again."
                              Looking up, he beheld as in a dream a burly fgure in the uniform of
                                    an officer of Canadian regulars. The face peering sardonically
                                    down upon him had but a single eye.
                              "Pardonnez-moi, pardonnez-moi, monsieur,
                                    if I disturbed your slumbers," the Frenchman exclaimed
                                    mockingly. "'T is a pity to awaken one who has
                                    so soft a couch."
                              "I am wounded," said Randolph, his senses as yet
                                    only half awake.
                              "In the prison in which we shall put him monsieur will
                                    have ample time to convalesce. I would with diffidence suggest
                                    that monsieur has a habit of being taken prisoner."
                              
                              By this time Randolph was thoroughly alert. "There have
                                    been occasions when I was not taken prisoner, as some of your
                                    Indian devils had reason to know," he retorted.
                                    "What, Captain Reparti, as you hope for salvation, did
                                    you do with the boy?"
                              "Monsieur le capitaine is wounded; he must not excite
                                    himself," Reparti cried, simulating great concern.
                                    "It would be monstrous to tell him anything that would
                                    excite him. Monsieur must have perfect quiet."
                              Randolph turned his face away and made no answer.
                              "What is become of monsieur's lofty
                                    speeches?" Reparti persisted, unwilling to forego his
                                    triumph. "How shall I make his excuse to Mademoiselle
                                    de Saint-Pierre when next I see her?"
                              The Viginian looked his tormentor in the face. "Ah, so she
                                    is still mademoiselle," he said.
                              The shot told. Reparti flushed. Then he came closer, and, leaning
                                    down, whispered with the air of one imparting a confidence:
                              "Mademoiselle still, but she will not be
                                    long!"
                              "What have we here?" demanded a voice in French
                                    from behind Reparti.
                              Unperceived, two other officers had drawn near and stood loking
                                    down at the wounded soldier. One was a man of small stature,
                                    rather over than under forty years of age, quick of motion, with
                                    keen eyes and a handsome animated face, in which was writ
                                    authority but also benevolence. His companion was somewhat
                                    younger and more impassive of countenance, but with a certain
                                    expression that might be termed winning. Both wore uniorms which
                                    indicated that they were of high rank; Reparti saluted with the
                                    greatest respect.
                              "Why, my dear chevalier, 't is another wounded
                                    officer!" the older man exclaimed in tones of concern,
                                          not waiting for Reparti to
                                    make any reply. "No doubt you were about to succor him,
                                    Captain Reparti. I trust," he continued to Randolph, in
                                    a voice that showed real concern and sympathy, "that
                                    you are not badly hurt, monsieur."
                              "A ball through my shoulder. I have bled much, but I have
                                    no intention of allowing this to be my last fight."
                              "Bravo! you have the sang-froid,
                                    monsieur. I am heartily glad that my franc-tireur missed the heart. 'T is a pity
                                    you had to lie here so long; but, while we remained in doubt
                                    regarding the further intentions of your army, we dared not send
                                    out a force to succor the wounded. We will try to make up for
                                    our remissness by our attention now. Mes
                                          garҫons," he called to some white uniformed
                                    soldiers who were passing with a rude stretcher, "carry
                                    this officer to the hospital and see that his wound is dressed
                                    at once. Be as gentle as you can, mes enfants,
                                    for he is grievously hurt."
                              "Stay yet a moment," he continued, when the
                                    soldiers had lifted Randolph upon the litter. "What is
                                    your name, monsieur?"
                              "I am Captain Randolph of the Sixtieth Royal Americans.
                                    You, if I mistake not, are the Marquis de
                                    Montcalm."
                              "Your instinct does not deceive you, Captain Randolph; and
                                    this gentleman here is my other soul, the Chevalier de Lévis.
                                    Randolph . . . Randolph . . . it seems that I must have heard
                                    the name before"
                              "Is your Christian name Charles, and were you formerly of
                                    the Virginia regiment? " asked the chevalier, speaking
                                    for the first time.
                              "I am Charles Randolph, and until recently I was an
                                    officer in the Virginia regiment," was the puzzled
                                    answer.
                              "Ah, yes, now I have it!" cried Montcalm.
                                    "You are the cavalier who rescued Mademoiselle de
                                          Saint-Pierrefrom the
                                    Iroquois, is it not so? I heard the story from
                                    mademoiselle's own lips; and be sure, monsieur, it lost
                                    nothing in the telling. Her father--God rest his soul!--was my
                                    old comrade in arms in the War of the Succession. Under the
                                    walls of Piacenza, when I was five times wounded, he slew the
                                    Croat who was about to give the finishing blow. So you have
                                    really put me in your debt, monsieur. The story of your exploit
                                    ran through all New France, and was still told even when the
                                    chevalier and I arrived a year and a half later. More than once
                                    I have heard fair ladies say they were glad you were not
                                    captured. But it is a cruelty to detain you longer. For the
                                    present, adieu. I shall assuredly seek you soon to see how you
                                    are faring."
                              Turning their backs on Reparti, who stood dumfounded at the turn
                                    affairs had taken, the marquis and the chevalier passed on. The
                                    soldiers carried Randolph round one end of the abatis into the
                                    camp to an extemporized hospital, where lay many other officers
                                    and soldiers, both French and English. As they passed through
                                    the camp Randolph noted signs of rejoicing among the soldiers,
                                    and heard a group off duty singing:
                              
                              
                                    "Le Franҫais comme l'Anglais
                                    Prétend soutenir ses droits,
                                    Voilà la ressemblance.
                                    Le Franҫais par equité,
                                    L'Anglais par duplicité,
                                    Voilà la différence.
                              
                              
                              There were other verses still less pleasant for an Englishman to
                                    hear; yet Randolph, strangely exhilarated, managed not to mind
                                    them much, and found strength to endure the pain attendant upon
                                    binding up his wound.
                              Weak but conscious, he lay upon his rude couch thinking of the
                                    battle, of Reparti's cruel jibes, of the chivalrous
                                    general's kindly interest in a fallen foe. Then there
                                          rosein fancy a fair young
                                    face, with roguish yet withal serious dark eyes--an image that
                                    had abided with him through all the turmoil of those trying
                                    years. Should he ever see that face again? Thank God, she had
                                    kept her promise! A smile lit up his pallid features--and the
                                    soldier slept.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XVII
                              OLD FRIENDS MEET AGAIN
                              THE weeks sped by; and one September morning
                                    Captain Randolph, fully recovered from his wound, entered a
                                    birch canoe about to depart from Carillon with dispatches for
                                    Quebec. He had given his parole, and had been ordered to the
                                    capital until he could be formally exchanged.
                              "I trust that you will not find your stay insupportable,
                                    monseiur le capitaine," said Montcalm, who had done him
                                    the great honor to come down to the waterside to see him off.
                                    "There are some things in Quebec worth seeing, eh,
                                    monsieur? And do not forget to deliver my letter."
                              "You may trust me for that, monsieur le marquis,"
                                    Randolph stammered, blushing at the raillery in the
                                    general's words.
                              Lieutenant Lusignan, the young officer who bore the dispatches,
                                    stepped into the canoe; the four boatmen pushed her off; last
                                    adieus were said; the voyage began. Some hours of steady
                                    paddling brought them in sight of the frowning walls of Fort St.
                                    Frédéric where they paused for their midday meal. Reëntering the
                                    canoe, they passed on down the clear broadening bosom of Lake
                                    Champlain. To the eastward, beyond a band of forest-covered
                                    lowland, appeared the imposing summits of a range of green-black
                                    mountains; on the west the foothills of another range rose from
                                    the water's edge. Once they passed a fleet of bateaux
                                    carrying supplies to the army at Carillon; and now and again
                                    they saw canoes filled with befeathered warriors, whowere hurrying to their distant wigwams
                                    for the autumn hunting. Great flocks of wild pigeons darkened
                                    the sun; sturgeon leaped in the shallows; and occasionally some
                                    stag, come down to drink, surveyed the travelers from the
                                    untenanted shore. Slowly the sun dropped behind the western
                                    mountains; the shadows deepened; the fireflies lit their little
                                    torches; the cries of the loons grew more frequent and more
                                    weird. That night the travelers camped upon a rocky islet
                                    fringed by a beach of purest white sand, and quitted it again
                                    ere the morning sun had dispersed the veil of mist that hovered
                                    over the lake. So went the voyage.
                              "We draw near St. Jean," said Lieutenant Lusignan
                                    one afternoon, pointing to a clearing amid the pines and
                                    hemlocks of the western shore.
                              "What has beome of the people who made the
                                    clearing?" Randolph asked.
                              "Killed by your allies, the Irquois. See, there are the
                                    charred ruins of their cabin."
                              "Is it true, then, that the Six Nations have struck
                                    you?" said Randolph. "They have generally
                                    seemed indifferent, and some of the warriors of the western
                                    nations were known to be fighting under the
                                    fleur-de-lis."
                              "The Mohawks have taken the trail against us on a few
                                    occasions. As you say, the others wait to see which way fortune
                                    will incline. 'T is well for us they are inactive. For
                                    a hundred years, monsieur, they have been the scourge of New
                                    France. Hardly an arpent of land between here
                                    and Quebec has not been moistened by the blood of their
                                    victims."
                              "'T is a shame that we must set on the savages to
                                    do murder thus," said Randolph regretfully.
                                    "There are many scenes on our western border like those
                                    at which you hint."
                              The lieutenant shrugged his shoulders. "You are right,monsieur," he said
                                    earnestly. "But we are all pawns in the hands of kings.
                                          Voilà tout!"
                              Quitting the quiet waters of Champlain, they entered the swift
                                    Richelieu, on whose banks stood many forts, some garrisoned, but
                                    others deserted stockades falling into ruin. The signs of war
                                    grew less evident, and they passed great seigniories peopled
                                    with a thrifty race of simple habitants. It
                                    was in the midst of harvest; but the crops were poor, and the
                                    labor of reaping was being performed by women and children and
                                    few old men, who anxiously scanned the canoe when it came in
                                    sight.
                              "All the men who are strong must go to war or assist in
                                    transporting supplies," the lieutenant said, in
                                    explanation. "Our population is so small compared with
                                    yours that every man must fight or we should be overwhelmed at
                                    once. It is hard on the people. Already we have often been on
                                    short rations. Last winter we were reduced to eating the flesh
                                    of the horse. It caused riots, and I know not what would have
                                    happened had it not been for the address of the marquis and the
                                    chevalier, who shamed the mutineers into silence. Both regularly
                                    partook of the flesh themselves. The marquis gave a dinner of
                                    ten courses, and the Friend of Man figured in every
                                    course."
                              "What are the causes of this great scarcity?"
                                    asked Randolph, smiling.
                              "The blockade kept up by your cruisers is one. Ah,
                                    monsieur, if you conquer us, you must thank your navy for it!
                                    Few vessels reach us, and they are freighted chiefly with
                                    munitions of war. New France has never produced, even in times
                                    of peace, enough for her needs. And now there is the army to
                                    feed; the outside supply is cut off; there are not enough men to
                                    tend the fields; and scarcity is inevitable. But this is not
                                    all, monsieur. We have enemies within, hélas!
                                    more dangerous than English arms."
                              
                              "Who are these enemies, monsieur?"
                              The lieutenant hesitated and glanced at the crew. Finally he leaned
                                    close to Randolph's ear and whispered: "That I
                                    dare not say. But when you come to Quebec, ask about La Grande
                                    Société and François Bigot!"
                              One pleasant day the canoe glided into the broad waters of the
                                    mighty river that gives outlet to the great inland seas of the
                                    Northwest. Down this river, through a region so low that it was
                                    uninhabited, through rush-infested Lac Saint-Pierre, past Trois
                                    Rivières, they paddled until they began to meet the tide, and
                                    the banks of the river grew steeper. At Becancourt they saw a
                                    squalid village of christianized Abenakis, who gazed longingly
                                    at the luxuriant locks of the young Bostonnais, for so the habitants called
                                    all Englishmen. Narrower grew the river, higher and more
                                    precipitous the cliffs that hemmed it in. One afternoon there
                                    loomed ahead a great 'promontory projecting far out
                                    into the stream.
                              "We draw near, monsieur," said the lieutenant
                                    eagerly. Aided by both the current and the ebbing tide, they
                                    swept round the promontory, and before them on the vast rock
                                    rose the stone houses, spires, monasteries, palaces, gardens,
                                    and fortresses of old Quebec--the bulwark of New France.
                              
                              "C'est grand, n'est-ce
                                          pas?" the lieutenant exclaimed. "I
                                    have seen most of the cities of Europe, but none are so majestic
                                    as this."
                               "You do not speak extravagantly," Randolph
                                    replied, gazing up at the gray precipice, whose brow was
                                    splendid in the sunlight. "'T is imposing,
                                    and, I doubt not, strong. He who sets foot in it a conqueror
                                    will have performed a feat that will bear comparison with the
                                    heroic deeds of antiquity."
                              
                              "Ah, yes, monsieur. And when Quebec falls, good night to
                                    New France!"
                              Threading their way among the shipping, the crew soon brought the
                                    canoe alongside a quay, where the occupants were greeted by a
                                    noisy crowd of soldiers and sailors off duty.
                              "Vhy, it is Captain Rantolph!" cried a familiar
                                    voice, and a stout gentleman clad in the uniform of a captain of
                                    the old Virginia regiment made his way excitedly through the
                                    press. He had a bullet-shaped head and a round hearty face that
                                    could belong to only one person in the world. A moment later
                                    Randolph was rapturously shaking the hand of Captain Jacob Van
                                    Braam.
                              "I vas expecting you, and here you vas already,"
                                    said the Dutchman, before Randolph could speak. "Mine
                                    Cott, I was glad to see you! I had of your vounding heard, also
                                    dot you vas petter, vas baroled, and vould soon to Quebec come.
                                    Dree tays haf I dot rifer vatched for you."
                              The greetings over, Van Braam explaned that he had engaged lodgings
                                    for Randolph with his own landlord. After giving a douceur to the crew, and bidding good-by to
                                    Lieutenant Lusignan, toward whom he had begun to entertain a
                                    genuine attachment, Randolph announced that he was ready to
                                    follow. Van Braam, who seemed to be well acquainted with the
                                    lieutenant, whispered some words in his ear, whereat the
                                    lieutenant nodded and looked pleased. The Dutchman then led
                                    theway.
                              Randolph saw much that was new and strange to him. The lofty gabled
                                    houses of the Lower Town were of white-washed stone, with sharp
                                    French roofs of burnished tin like those of Liège. The way led
                                    past the market-place beside the little church called Notre Dame
                                    de la Victoire, so named sixty years before, after the failure
                                    of bIuff Sir William Phips's attack upon the town. In
                                    the market-placewere many peasant
                                    dames in dingy jackets and short petticoats of coarse homespun,
                                    while here and there were a few swarthy male habitants, with their long queues, short pipes,
                                    leather breeches, and jackets of white frieze with blue
                                    fringes--all chattering like so many sparrows as they sold their
                                    vegetables, eggs, and capons to the housekeepers. Both peasants
                                    and townspeople stared long and hard at les
                                          Bostonnais; while black-robed Jesuits, gray-garbed
                                    Récollets, and nuns from the convent of the Ursulines glanced
                                    furtively at them in the narrow streets, and, crossing
                                    themselves, silently blessed God and the Holy Virgin for having
                                    seen fit to make prisoners of the heretics.
                              "'T is a far cry from Fort Necessity to where we
                                    are now," Randolph remarked, as the two began to climb
                                    the steep serpentine rod that led up the cliff to the Upper
                                    Town.
                              "Four years, and you vas look much older, and I vas a
                                    hostage yet! Dose vere long years, mine friend, and not vidout
                                    droubles. Major Stobo peliefed dot de French de derms of our
                                    surrender fiolated. He sent blans of Fort Duquesne to Virginia,
                                    as you know. Dose babers vere found among the babers of de tead
                                    Praddock. Ve vere accused of peing sbies. Stobo was contemned to
                                    pe hung. Mine Cott! I peliefed him lost! Dwice he esgaped, put
                                    was regaptured. At last his sentence was suspended. Py and py he
                                    vas released. How dime traggedl No cheering news put from our
                                    ally, dot grand Frederick! Each year, ven de sbring come and de
                                    ice vas melted, ve vished hard for a Pritish leet and army
                                    pefore Quebec. And now you was come, put no fleet."
                              "Take heart," said Randolph optimistically.
                                    "In spite of our miscarriage at Ticonderoga, I believe
                                    the tide has turned. Now that Louisburg has
                                    fallen--"
                              "Ah, Louisburg!" Van Braam interjected.
                                    "Since Iheard dot news I
                                    vas a new man. I valks apout vid my head vonce more up; I looks
                                    al Frenchmans full in de face. Vat is it dot you was hear apout
                                    dot victory?"
                              "Very little except that the fortress has really fallen,
                                    and that a red-headed, long-legged young brigadier named Wolfe
                                    was wherever there was most work to do."
                              "So I had heard also, and dot last I vill varrant to be
                                    drue. He vas, I dink, dot same Chames Volfe dot fought in de
                                    regiment next mine at Dettingen. He vas a liddle ensign--a poy
                                    of seventeen. As de French charged, he valked vid his commanding
                                    officer town de front of de line knocking up de guns and delling
                                    de men not to fire dill the enemy was close up. Chames Volfe,
                                    dot was de man!"
                              "I have great hopes that Forbes will do as well against
                                    Duquesne," Randolph continued. "Fort Frontenac
                                    at least is a hard blow."
                              "Fort Fontenac? Vat mean you?" Van Braam
                                    demanded.
                              "Why, have you not heard? We got the news at Trois
                                    Rivières on our way down the St. Lawrence. Colonel Bradstreet
                                    has captured it, with seventy cannon, all the French vessels on
                                    Lake Ontario, and all the goods intended for the western
                                    Indinas. The West is now cut off and must die like a girdled
                                    tree, while hosts of Indians who have aided France will now fear
                                    to strike us."
                              Van Braam swelled up like a pouter pigeon.
                                    "PlessCott!" he cried. "Dot was good
                                    news. I was nodice my French friends had long faces of
                                    lade!"
                              When they reached the top of the cliff, they paused beside the
                                    bishop's roomy residence to gaze down upon the river,
                                    the further shore, and the distant Isle of Orleans. As they
                                    moved onward again, Randolph's glance fell upon a large
                                    stone building overhanging the cliff on the left. It was
                                    surmounted by a mansard roof pierced with littledormer windows, and in front was a
                                    spacious gallery on which a number of gentlemen in lace-trimmed
                                    clothes and wearing bejeweled swords were pacing up and down.
                                    Van Braam explained that the building was the Château de St.
                                    Louis, or palace, and that the gentlemen were waiting for a
                                    levee with the governor-general, the Marquis de Vaudreuil.
                                    Randolph also caught glimpses of the tower of the cathedral, of
                                    the College of the Jesuits, and of many other buildings and
                                    numerous spacious groves, orchards, courtyards, and gardens. He
                                    had time for only a glance at any of these sights, however, for
                                    presently, after passing many exquisitely gowned ladies who
                                    gazed with interest at the handsome young Virginian, they
                                    reached Van Braam's quarters in the whitewashed stone
                                    house of a bourgeois of the better class.
                              Randolph was introduced to the family, which consisted of the
                                    tradesman himself, his wife, and their daughter Louise. Monsieur
                                    Mercier was a quiet man, whose conversation was chiefly of the
                                    ruin which the war had wrought in is business; madame was
                                    middle-aged, but still inclined to gayety; and Louise was a
                                    pretty, pert young demoiselle, much given to spending her time
                                    frizzing and powdering her hair and to singing little chansons in which the words amour and cœur were used with
                                    remarkable frequency. She displayed great interest in the
                                    Virginian, and soon found opportunity to ask him the questions
                                    which the ladies of Quebec were accustomed to propound to
                                    travelers.
                              "Monsieur is perhaps married?" she asked, showing
                                    as she spoke the whitest of teeth.
                              "Unfortunately, mademoiselle, I am not so happy as you
                                    seem to infer," Randolph said, affecting great
                                    regret.
                              "It is not too late," she said coyly.
                                    "Do you not think the ladies of Quebec more beautiful
                                    than those of your own country?"
                              
                              "I fear, mademoiselle, that as yet I am in no position to
                                    judge," Randolph said diplomatically. "With
                                    one exception, I have had no more than a glimpse t the charming
                                    ornaments of your city. But if the exception is representative,
                                    I am certain that our ladies would have cause for
                                    jealousy."
                              "Ciel, but monsieur knows well how to
                                    pay the compliment!" she cried, blushing with pleasure.
                                    "'T is evident les
                                          Bostonnais are a less barbarous people than we have
                                    been led to suppose. If monsieur thinks so well of the ladies of
                                    Quebec, he will doubtless be carrying one of them back with him
                                    to Virginia."
                              "Such an arrangement would give me the greatest happiness.
                                    But, alas, mademoiselle, you see before you only a poor
                                    prisoner! I fear that your fair ones would not deign to look
                                    with favor upon one so unfortunate, especially when he is an
                                    enemy."
                              "Our ladies have tender hearts, monsieur; you need not let
                                    that thought discourage you."
                              "Eh bien, when I have made sure of my
                                    own return, perhaps I shall consider whether to attempt to
                                    secure a companion for the voyage. 'T is a pleasant
                                    thought, mademoiselle; I am greatly indebted to you for having
                                    suggested it."
                              While they were in the midst of such badinage supper was announced.
                                    Upon coming into the dining-room, Randolph imitated Van Braam
                                    and rinsed his hands in a blue and white porcelain basin which
                                    stood on at pedestal in one corner of the room. Arrived at the
                                    table, he found his couvert to consist of a
                                    napkin, plate, silver goblet, fork, and spoons, but no knife, it
                                    being the custom of the country for the gentlemen to carry
                                    knives in their pockets, while the ladies wore theirs in sheaths
                                    of leather, silk, or birch-bark. Unaware of this usage, Randolph
                                    would have beenin some
                                    embarrassment had not Van Braam, who sat next him, slipped him a
                                    knife which he had been careful to secure against such an
                                    emergency. The food itself was all that could be wished, being
                                    prepared with the usual French skill, and served with some
                                    degree of elegance off vessels of silver and Delft ware.
                              In the course of the meal Randolph took advantage of a
                                    moment's lull in the conversation to ask Van Braam if
                                    he had received a certain letter relating to little Barnaby
                                    Currin.
                              "Your letter offering de great revard came to me afder
                                    some long vaidings," Van Braam answered. "Put
                                    I haf learned noddings. Dot child vas fanished combletely. No
                                    one has seen the chief Le Chat, and Reparti vill noddings dell.
                                    Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre has many inquiries made so vell as
                                    I, put no news. Dere vas vone fine laty!"
                              "Is she well?" asked Randolph, striving not to
                                    betray too much interest.
                              "Aho, I knew dot question vould come!" the
                                    Dutchman laughed. " De broof of gold is fire; de broof
                                    of vooman, gold; de broof of man, it vas a vooman,'
                                    says your Boor Richard. This," he continued to the
                                    Merciers in French, "is the gallant who rescued
                                    Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre from the Iroquois. He wishes to
                                    know if she is well."
                              The family received the news with surprise; their interest in the
                                    newcomer was redoubled. Mademoiselle said something about
                                          "un exploit très
                                    romantique."
                              "She is vell, mine friend," said Van Braam,
                                    "and more charming dan efer. If I vere not an old man,
                                    I should long since haf mineself to her offered. As it vas,
                                    Captain Jacob Van Braam is, so to say, an atmirer most tevoted!
                                    She is avare of your abroach, and vill velcome you to
                                    Quebec."
                              
                              "I have a letter for her from the Marquis de
                                    Montcalm," said Randolph, making a notable effort to
                                    avoid enthusiasm. "I think it should be delivered this
                                    evening."
                              "It should pe telifered at vonce, vidout telay!"
                                    quoth Van Braam, with conviction. "I vill mineself
                                    guide you to her."
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XVIII
                              IN THE DRAWING-ROOM
                              "DO you remember our preparations for
                                    the dinner at which we first met Mademoiselle de
                                    Saint-Pierre?" Randolph asked Van Braam, as they were
                                    dressing.
                              "Ven I mine clean shirt could not get into!" the
                                    Dutchman cried, roaring with laughter. "Mine Cott, how
                                    I rebroached mineself ven I was seated next py such a laty! And
                                    yet lader I was not sorry mine shirt vas loose.
                              "Where does mademoiselle live?" asked Randolph.
                                    "Her father's death must have been a sad blow
                                    to her."
                              "Ah, yes, a sad plow, as you say. She bined much ven she
                                    heard de news. She has her home made vid de La Vallières, a
                                    family of de haute noblesse and her relatives.
                                    De Marquis de Montcalm was vonce her father's
                                    comrat-in-arms, and since his coming has almost a father peen.
                                    Ah, dere was vone fine grand man! So considerate, so kind, so
                                    bious, and yet so great soldier. New France lies in his
                                    keeping."
                              "Mademoiselle probably has many admirers?"
                                    queried Randolph.
                              "Lofers py pattalions. Mine Cott, from colonels to
                                    lieutenants all vas mat apout her! Yet she vill none of dem.
                                    Venefer I sees vone bersistent more dan usual, I dells her dot I
                                    haf solemnly bromised dot she shall not marry until you haf seen
                                    her vonce again."
                              "Oh, and what answer does she make to that?"
                              "She says: 'Captain Randolph is a gallant
                                    shentleman. He safe me from les peaux rouges. Mon
                                          Dieu!I couldnot pear to
                                    tisoblige a so good friend of his.' And soon I see dot
                                    atmirer vid a long face and a look most
                                    tisconsolate!"
                              "Does Reparti still trouble her?"
                              "Venefer he vas in Quebec. She dry to keep avay from him;
                                    put, mine Cott! he vas like a cur tog dot you cannot lose! De
                                    Marquis de Vaudreuil and François Bigot, the intendant, are to
                                    him friends; and all are in vone grand blot to enrich demselfes
                                    py knafery. I half peliefe dey vould combel her to marry him,
                                    put Montcalm brodects her."
                              When they were about to set out, Van Braam took pistol, and, after
                                    examining the priming, put the weapon underneath his cloak. Then
                                    he handed another to Randolph. As both wore swords, the
                                    Virginian asked the cause of this precaution.
                              "Ven a shentleman goes aproad in such a city, he cannot
                                    ofer cautious pe," Van Braam replied, as they stepped
                                    into the street. "You, in bardicular, vas not unlikely
                                    to pe in some tanger here. Captain Reparti has not your liddle
                                    quarrel forgot, you may pe sure. Pesides, he may dink you haf
                                    some bart blayed in his lofe affair failure."
                              A few minutes' walk brought them to the residence of the
                                    La Vallières, a. spacious stone house, with dormer windows and a
                                    high-pitched roof, not far from the palace of the
                                    governor-general. Randolph noticed that it commanded a view of
                                    the river, and that connected with it was an extensive garden
                                    filled with trees.
                              They were ushered by a servant into the drawing-room, where Van
                                    Braam presented Randolph to the Baron La Vallière, a little old
                                    man with a hooked nose and keen gray eyes. The baron's
                                    hair was curled, powdered, and tied in a queue; and he wore a
                                    green velvet frock coat, embroidered waistcoat, knee breeches,
                                    silk stockings, highheeled buckled
                                    shoes, and a sword with a richly bejeweled scabbad. He walked
                                    with a decided limp, the result, Randolph learned later, of a
                                    wound received in the last war. Randolph next had the pleasure
                                    of meeting the baron's daughter Toinette, a piquant,
                                    elegantly dressed beauty, with somewhat the air of a coquette.
                                    The other persons in the room were Lieutenant Lusignan and
                                    Alfrede de Saint-Pierre; and if Randolph's eyes rested
                                    mostly upon the girl, it should be remembered in his behalf that
                                    four years had elapsed since he said good-by to her outside the
                                    walls of Fort Presqu'isle. Time had made little change
                                    in her save that her form had acquired a more womanly fullness
                                    and her bearing the added grace of greater dignity. She wore a
                                    gown of some rich stuff, cut modestly décolleté, leaving the
                                    shoulders bare, and having short puffed sleeves and full lowing
                                    skirt. Her profuse dark hair was surmounted by an aigrette set
                                    with brilliants, and was arranged in little curls, one of which
                                    fell clusteringly upon the lovely curve of her neck and
                                    shoulder. About her neck was a necklace of pearls. In her face
                                    there was a fresh glow of health and youth. Laughter still
                                    lurked in the dark eyes beneath the superby arched brows, and
                                    the melting voice which came from between the curved red lips
                                    seemed as capable as ever of imperious commands or delicious
                                    teasings. A glance was enough to convince Randolph that in his
                                    dreams he had not idealized her.
                              After the salutations were over Randolph turned to Lusignan and
                                    said: "Ha, lieutenant, I am agreeably surprised at
                                    seeing you again so soon."
                              "Ma foi! I am not at all surprised to
                                    see you--especially now that I know that you are the same
                                    Randolph of whom I have heard so much," the lieutenant
                                    replied, in a tone of good-humored raillery.
                              "Oh, Lieutenant Lusignan is a fixture when he is in
                                          town,"said
                                    Mademoiselle La Vallière, in affected scorn. "He
                                    troubles us continually."
                              "'T is not altogether his fault that he is here
                                    at present, Mademoiselle Toinette," protested Van Braam
                                    in French. "I could tell a story if I
                                    chose."
                              "Chut!" the girl exclaimed, shaking her fan
                                    menacingly at Van Braam. "All messengers should be
                                    stricken dumb after they have delivered their
                                    messages."
                              "Merci, Capitaine Van Braam!"
                                    said the lieutenant, smiling.
                              "As for you, Captain Randolph, I have been expecting you
                                    from the moment we heard you had arrived. I am most happy that
                                    you have come. Not a day passes but Alfrede says something about
                                    the wonderful Virginian who saved her from les
                                          peaux rouges"
                              "Toinette!"cried Alfrede reproachfully.
                              "Oh, well, if you did not say it, you thought it, which is
                                    the same!"
                              "How is your wound, Captain Randolph?" asked
                                    Alfrede shyly.
                              "I have none now, mademoiselle, except it be to my
                                    vanity.
                              "You ought to be thankful for your good fortune,
                                    monsieur," said Toinette challengingly. "No
                                    Englishmen except captives ever enjoy the delights of life in
                                    Quebec."
                              "Only the gates of Louisburg and Frontenac: are open to
                                    free ones, I believe."
                              "Certainly the gates of Carillon are not," she
                                    retorted quickly.
                              Ralndolph made an exaggerated bow. "I admit myself
                                    beaten," he said gallantly. "If French
                                    generals were as ready in military expedients as mademoiselle
                                    with her wit, even the gates of Frontenac and Louisburg would
                                    not have swung wide to us."
                              
                              Ma foi! 't is well that your generals
                                    are not Virginians else they would conquer us with
                                    compliments," she said sarcastically.
                              "Peace! peace!" interposed the baron, laughing.
                                    "Ste. Anne! have we not enough war without carrying it
                                    into our drawing-rooms? We are glad to welcome you to Quebec,
                                    Captain Randolph; we can almost find it in our hearts not to
                                    regret your wound because it brought you to us. Our good friend
                                    here"--indicating Van Braam--"when he heard
                                    you were out of danger, at once began to rejoice over your
                                    capture, saying that you would be sent here, where he could see
                                    you. You have a stanch friend, monsieur, in Captain Van Braam.
                                    He has told us only the good things about you."
                              "Eh bien, he has a little of de duivel in him, but rarely lets him
                                    out," Van Braam admitted amid laughter.
                              Randolph adroitly shifted the attention to Lieutenant Lusignan.
                                    "It was as a reward for his great valor that he was
                                    chosen to bring the dispatches to Quebec. I suspect he was not
                                    sorry to come, eh, lieutenant?"
                              It was now Lusignan's turn to blush.
                              "I admit I do not find Quebec dull," he said.
                              Presently, through the workings of those invisible agencies natural
                                    to such situations, the little group split up into three parts,
                                    of which, needless to say, Toinette and the lieutenant formed
                                    one, Van Braam and the baron another, and Randolph and Alfrede
                                    the third.
                              "It has been a long time since we saw each
                                    other," said Randolph a trife unsteadily, when the two
                                    were comfortably settled in a comer. "First let me say
                                    with what regret I heard of your father's death.
                                    Colonel Washington, Captain Van Braam, and I formed the highest
                                    opinion of him both as a soldier and as a gentleman. I have
                                          heardofficers admit that if
                                    he had not fallen when he did, Dieskau might not have been
                                    defeated."
                              "You are kind," she said gratefully.
                                    "His loss was almost more than I could
                                    bear."
                              "I hope that sometime you may see his
                                    resting-place," he said gently. "When I was
                                    stationed at Fort Edward, I sought it out and had a stone raised
                                    to mark it. 'T is in a spot such as soldier might
                                    choose for his burial place."
                              Her eyes grew liquid. "I shall never forget your good
                                    deed, never!" she murmured.
                              "I must not forget," he said presently,
                                    "that I was intrusted with a letter to you from the
                                    Marquis de Montcalm."
                              "Oh, good!" she cried. "The marquis was
                                    my father's old comrade. His children and I were
                                    playmates. No one could be kinder to me than he has been. Have
                                    you the letter with you?"
                              "To be sure," he said, and handed it to her.
                              She took it eagerly, and he noticed with a thrill how round and
                                    beautiful was the arm she held out for it.
                              "May I read it?" she asked.
                              He consented willigly enough. She broke the seal, and rapidly
                                    scanned the contents. As she did so, a flush of added color came
                                    into her face, and she laughed merrily.
                              "Why, 't is mostly about you!" she
                                    cried. "I wonder if I dare read it to
                                    you?"
                              "Do, by all means! I feel flattered at being noticed,
                                    though all he may say is uncomplimentary."
                              After some hesitation she found the courage to comply, and this is
                                    what she read:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  CARRILLON,
                                                  the 2nd September, 1758.
                                                  
                                                  "MADEMOISELLE,- -
                                                  Long before this you will have heard of the
                                                  glorious victory won, thanks be to the good God,
                                                  by the troops under my command. Among the trophies
                                                  of thebattle is the
                                                  bearer of this letter, whom, unless my memory
                                                  plays me false, you have met before. He is a
                                                  personable cavalier, and behaved in the action
                                                  with great gallantry. You may use, him during the
                                                  coming winter as a parlor ornament, being careful
                                                  to treat him kindly and let nothing about him be
                                                  broken that is not mendble. As he is our enemy,
                                                  punish him somewhat, but not too much.
                                                  "You will rejoice with me at hearing
                                                  that the news from my beloved Candiac is the best.
                                                  Madame and our daughters in their letter ask to be
                                                  remembered to you. Oh, bon Dieu!
                                                  when shall I see again my château, my plantations,
                                                  my chestnut grove, my oil mill, my mulberry trees,
                                                  my wife, my children? May God preserve my dear
                                                  ones and make them prosper in this world and the
                                                  next. The number is large for such a moderate
                                                  fortune, but does God ever abandon His children in
                                                  their need?
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  Aux petits des oiseaux il donne la
                                                  pâture
                                                  Et sa bonté s' étend sur
                                                  toute la nature.
                                                  
                                                  
                                                   I shall always say--Happy he who is free from
                                                  the proud yoke to which I am bound and lives in
                                                  the obscure state where the Gods have placed him.
                                                  Bon soir, ma chère enfant, my
                                                  compliments to your friends. I have the honor to
                                                  be with respect,
                                                  
                                                  "Your very humble
                                                  and obedient servant,
                                                  "MONTCALM."
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              "Poor marquis!" Alfrede exclaimed. "He
                                    loathes this war as much as I. It is almost three years since he
                                    has seen his home and family, and he is always longing for them.
                                    But he will not leave New France while she needs him. He is a
                                    hero, monsieur, a hero! He comes of a race of heroes of which it
                                    is the common saying, 'War is the tomb of the
                                    Montcalms.' Where have you a man such as
                                    he?"
                              
                              "We have one at least, mademoiselle, though he is young
                                    and not yet in high command."
                              "Who is he?" she demanded.
                              "Colonel Washington," he said, with conviction.
                                    "No soldier could display greater heroism and
                                    self-sacifice amid discouraging conditions than he has done in
                                    defending our western frontier."
                              "I remember that I thought him a man one could trust, she
                                    said. "He seemed a sober man for one so
                                    young."
                              "He is extremely practical, and perhaps somewhat lacking
                                    in imagination. I recall that on our trip to Fort Le Bœuf--where
                                    I first had the happiness of meeting you--Captain Van Braam,
                                    Lieutenant Currin, and I would sometimes, upon reaching a
                                    mountain top, stand for several minutes exclaiming over the
                                    beauty of a river beneath. Washington would then be able to give
                                    us an intelligent estimate of the number of arable acres in the
                                    valley."
                              "Has he no sentiment whatever?"
                              "I would not say that. He has, to my knowledge, been
                                    mildly in love a number of times with own Virginian beauties;
                                    and in New York I learned that while he was in that city on his
                                    way to consult Lieutenant-General Shirley in Boston, he had an
                                    incipient affair with the daughter of one of the great patroons
                                    of the province. Under the influence of the gentle passion he
                                    has even been known to indite poems. The last verses of one such
                                    ran thus:
                              
                              
                                    'Ah! woe's me, that I should love and
                                          conceal.
                                    Long have I wished, but never dared reveal,
                                    Even though severely Love's Pains I feel;
                                     Xerxes that great, was 't free from
                                          Cupid's Dart,
                                    And all the greatest Heroes felt the Smart
                              
                              
                              There is no man living I love and honor more, and I ought to say
                                    that all his verses were written when he was in his teens. Long
                                    ago he wisely perceived that he wasintended for a soldier, not a poet. God knows he has had
                                    enough since that time to make him grave!"
                              "How do you like the prospect the marquis holds out for
                                    you?" inquired Alfrede archly, after a pause.
                              "I ask no better fate," he said, gazing ardently
                                    into her eyes. "Only you must heed his warning, for I
                                    have something that could be broken--something not mendable and
                                    that only one woman in the world could break."
                              She looked up at him from beneath long lashes, and he knew that she
                                    understood. Her eyes fell. He noticed that her lips trembled,
                                    nor were his much firmer.
                              "I wept much over your letter about the little
                                    boy," she said, after a silence. "Terrible
                                    things have been done in this conflict by both combatants,
                                    though I fear that because most of the savages have been on our
                                    side my country will have most to answer for. I have done what I
                                    could, but, hélas! I have learned next to
                                    nothing. Le Chat and he have disappeared. 'Tis said by
                                    some that the chief is in the region of the Upper
                                    Lakes."
                              "What does Captain Reparti say?"
                              I have asked him twice. Once he pretended to have no knowledge.
                                    Another time he promised to redeem the child if I would grant
                                    him one request."
                              "And what was that?" asked Randolph, half
                                    guessing the answer.
                              She hesitated. "That I should marry him," she
                                    said, looking down.
                              "Alfrede, that must never be!" he cried.
                                    "Some time we shall find the child. Before God, I would
                                    pledge my fortune for his ransom, but you must not do
                                    that."
                              "Peace will come soon," she said;
                                    "perhaps then he can be found."
                              "It cannot come too soon for me, but why do you think it
                                    is at hand?"
                              
                              "I can be frank," she said, "for soon
                                    you will see for yourself. New France cannot fight much longer.
                                    The court has deserted us. Oh, it is shameful! A hundred
                                    thousand men can be furnished to fight the battles of Austria
                                    and of La Pompadour in Germany, but no troops and few supplies
                                    can be spared to save a continent for France. In spite of
                                    brilliant victories--won by the genius of Montcalm--we stand on
                                    the brink of ruin. Food is scarce; the suffering of the people
                                    in winter is pitiable. The colony is split into two factions.
                                    Vaudreuil, who is Canadian born, is jealous of Montealm--the,
                                    man who for three campaigns has kept us from destruction--and
                                    does all he can to thwart him. Alas! the governor has
                                    opportunities. Montcalm commands only the troops from France,
                                    and technically is subordinate to Vaudreuil, who, however, is
                                    fortunately afraid to take the field in person. Worst of all,
                                    the intendant, who in many ways is the most powerful man in the
                                    province, is the leader of a pack of wolves who are eating out
                                    the very heart of New France."
                              A sound of laughter and of many voices came from the street. All
                                    ran to the window and looked out. From the direction of the
                                    palace came a dozen richly dressed men and women, their way
                                    lighted by servants in livery carrying flaming flambeaux. In
                                    front was an exquisitely gowned woman of great beauty,
                                    arm-in-arm with a short splotchy-faced man.
                              "Madame Péan!" said Toinette, in tones of
                                    disapproval. "She has had too much wine."
                              "Oui, La Belle Sultane," said
                                    Lieutenant Lusignan; " but she cares not. She is lost
                                    to shame."
                              "Who is the gentleman with her?" asked
                                    Randolph.
                              "That," said Alfrede slowly, "is
                                    Franҫois Bigot, intendant, and Evil Genius of New
                                    France."
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XIX
                              THE HIRELINGS
                              AN hour later Van Braam and Randolph were on
                                    their way homeward. The night was clear but moonless, and from a
                                    ridge over which their road passed they could look down upon the
                                    broad shimmering Basin of Quebec and the distant shores
                                    beyond.
                              "Dose," said Van Braam, pointing to some lights
                                    that twinkled far down the river, "are in villas and
                                    farmhouses on de Isle of Orleans, vere in summer many families
                                    of vealth redire. Dose across de rifer and so much nearer are on
                                    Ponit Lévis. If dot dime efer comes ven an enemy addempts
                                    Quebec, it is dere he vill his patteries erect. He vill not dake
                                    de city py his pompardment, put he vill testroy
                                    it."
                              "Do you think the town can ever be taken?" asked
                                    Randolph. "Nature has done her best for it; and, to
                                    judge from the batteries I saw today, man also has been
                                    busy."
                              "No blace vas efer so strong dot it was impregnable, no
                                    more dan any voman was broof against de vooings of de right
                                    shentleman," quoth the Dutchman sagely.
                              "Hold!" exclaimed Randolph in a low voice,
                                    suddenly stopping short. "Do you see that fellow
                                    skulking in the shadow of yonder trees? I would almost swear
                                    that he is following us."
                              Van Braam stopped and looked back in the direction indicated. There
                                    was, in truth, a man in the shadow;but while they stood looking he advanced some distance in
                                    their direction, and then turned down a side street so
                                    unconcernedly as to disarm suspicion.
                              "Doubtless his interest was mere curiosity," said
                                    Randolph. "I suppose your preparations before we
                                    started have made me unduly suspicious."
                              "It vas no harm to pe vatchful," said Van
                                    Braam.
                              They walked on and drew near the spacious convent of the Ursulines,
                                    from whose chapel came the pealing tones of a great organ
                                    mingled with the voices of the nuns celebrating midnight service
                                    for the safety of New France.
                              "De air of Quebec vas vid incense of vorship
                                    heafy," said Van Braam, who as a descendant of men who
                                    held Leyden against the hosts of Alva, had no fondness for
                                    things Catholic. "Briests and nuns vas eferyvere. If
                                    braying vas any goot, ve shall New France nefer gonquer, and no
                                    Frenchman vill efer so much as a liddle smell of burgadory
                                    daste. Somedimes I vas combletely dired of so much brocessions,
                                    so much braying. I was not religious much, put often haf I
                                    longed to hear goot Dominic Heijn of Amsterdam breach once
                                    more."
                              By the time Van Braam concluded his observations they were past the
                                    convent and were approaching the home of a bourgeois where a
                                    dance was in progress From the open doors streamed shafts of
                                    light, and the strains of violins mingled with the rhythmical
                                    sound of many feet dancing a quadrille. Presently the violins
                                    were drowned by lusty voices singing a folk song:
                              
                              
                                    "Malbrough s'en va-t-en
                                          guerre,
                                    Mironton, mironton, mirontaine,
                                    Malbrough s'en va-t-en guerre,
                                    Ne sait quand reviendra
                              
                              
                              
                                    "Il reviendra-z-à Pâques,
                                    Mironton, mironton, mirontaine,
                                    Il reviendra-z-à Pâques
                                    Ou à la Trintité
                              
                              
                                    "La Trinité se passe,
                                    Mironton, mironton, mirontaine,
                                    La Trinité se passe,
                                    Malbrough ne revient pas."
                              
                              
                              "A gay and a habby beoble," said Van Braam
                                    contemptuously. "Shoost like all Frenchmans. Vere Quebe
                                    to fall domorrow, dey vould laugh and sing and tance next tay
                                    like grasshoppers. Mine Cott! pevare!"
                              There was reason for his exclamation. They had passed the scene of
                                    gayety and were abreast of a spacious garden filled with trees
                                    and shrubbery. Out of a dark gateway had sprung three men with
                                    drawn swords. It would probably have gone hard with the two
                                    friends had not the foremost rufian, in his haste, stumbled over
                                    a protuberance in the rocky street and fallen in front of his
                                    companions, momentarily checking their progress. Van Braam, who
                                    was much quicker on such occasions than is usual in one so
                                    phlegmatic, drew his pistol, and, cocking it, shot the second
                                    man through the body.
                              "Bravo, captain!" cried Randolph. He had already
                                    drawn his own sword, and now received the onset of the third
                                    ruffian. The stars furnished but feeble light, and it was only
                                    his fencer's instinct that enabled him to turn aside
                                    the furious thrusts aimed at him. His assailant was exceedingly
                                    tall and long armed, but soon showed himself an indifferent
                                    swordsman. After foiling the first attack, Randolph himself took
                                    the offensive. Presently, by a strong parade, he sent the
                                    fellow's weapon flying into the middle of the street,
                                    and in an instant had his own threatening the man's
                                    throat. Meanwhile thefirst
                                    ruffian, seeing the turn ffairs were taking, scrambled to his
                                    feet, and, disregarding his companion's urgent cries of
                                          ",À moi, mon camarade, en
                                    avant, to the rescue!" ran off down the street at
                                    such a pace that it was useless for the irate but weighty Van
                                    Braam to follow.
                              "What in the devil does this mean, you rascal?"
                                    demanded Randolph of his captive, whom he proceeded to seize by
                                    the collar, at the same time keeping his point against the skin.
                                    "Why do you attack strangers in this
                                    manner?"
                              "Mercy! mercy! seigneur, as you hope for heaven!"
                                    begged the man abjectly, showing that he was as cowardly as he
                                    was treacherous.
                              "Run him drough, tamn him!" exclaimed Van Braam
                                    vindictively.
                              Groveling upon the ground, the captive repeated his plea for
                                    clemency.
                              "You deserve to die, but I will release you on one
                                    condition," said Randolph,--"that you tell me
                                    who instigated this attack."
                              "Hélas!" the prisoner cried.
                                    "I do not know his name. He is a heavy man with a vast
                                    wart on his nose. He was to give us each two hundred livres. We be poor men, seigneur, ruined by
                                    the war. Pity my wife and little ones!"
                              The man's voice had the ring of truth; but Randolph stood
                                    undecided whether to release him or turn him over to the watch,
                                    who, attracted by the shot, were running up. His indecision was
                                    resolved by the fellow's suddenly twisting out of his
                                    grasp like an eel and dashing off. A quick thrust would probably
                                    have brought him to the ground, but the Virginian mercifully
                                    forbore giving it, and also neglected to make use of his pistol,
                                    with which he might have managed to wing the fugitive.
                              Half a dozen of the watch now came up, bearing lighted
                                    flambeaux.
                              
                              "Give up your weapons, messieurs," said the
                                    officer in charge.
                              "Why?" Randolph demanded in French. "We
                                    but defended ourselves against the rufians."
                              Van Braam also vigorously protested, insisting that it would be an
                                    outrage to arrest gentlemen whose only offense was that they had
                                    defended themselves against assassins.
                              Meanwhile two of the watch were turning over the fellow on the
                                    ground. He was quite dead, with a great bloody hole in his
                                    breast.
                              "Pardieu, c'est Le
                                    Rat!" cried one of them, after a look at the dead
                                    man's face. "He will rob no
                                    more!"
                              The exclamation drew the attention of the other watch men. A
                                    careful scrutiny convinced all that the body was indeed that of
                                    a celebrated highwayman who had long been the terror of the
                                    city.
                              "Parbleu! messieurs les Anglais, this
                                    gives the encounter a different look," said the officer
                                    apologetically. "We owe you thanks instead of an
                                    arrest. The rascal has escaped us for months. He has committed
                                    half a dozen murders and twice that many robberies. You are free
                                    to go whenever you wish."
                              Greatly relieved by the turn affairs had taken, Randolph and Van
                                    Braam bade the officer good-night and proceeded to their
                                    lodgings, carrying with them food for considerable
                                    reflection.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XX
                              A SEIGNIORY OF THE OLD RÉGIME
                              "TOMORROW the Baron La Vallière intends
                                    to take Toinette and me to his seigniory up the St.
                                    Charles," said Alfrede to Randolph one afteroon, as
                                    they were walking in the garden. "He has asked me to
                                    invite you and Captain Van Braam to go with us."
                              "Since you are to be in the party, I accept with
                                    pleasure," said Randolph, with a look that brought the
                                    blushes to her face.
                              "'T is the day when his censitaires pay their cens et
                                          rente," she explained. "On most
                                    baronies this ceremony takes place on St. Martin's day,
                                    but on his it is earlier. You are to come at six for
                                    breakfast--provided you can get up in time."
                              Randolph vowed that he would not be tardy, and kept his word. The
                                    hour named found him and Van Braam entering the La Vallière
                                    mansion.
                              "Bonjour! bonjour!" the baron
                                    exclaimed heartily, limping forward to meet them. "Ste.
                                    Anne! you do me a rare honor!"
                              "It is you who confers the honor," insisted both
                                    Randolph and Van Braam. "I have often wished to visit
                                    one of the great estates of New France and see how it is
                                    conducted," continued Randolph. "Anything that
                                    pertains to farming is always interesting to a
                                    Virginian."
                              
                              "Doubtless your agriculture is very different from
                                    ours," the baron observed, taking a pinch of snuff from
                                    his tabatière. "All the world uses
                                    Virginia tabac. This snuff is some of it.
                                    Perhaps it was grown on your own plantation."
                              "Possibly. If it was, I hope you fnd it good. Tobacco is
                                    our chief product, but we grow much wheat and maize also. Most
                                    of the labor is performed by slaves, though we have what we call
                                    indentured servants. I must confess that most of us are poor
                                    farmers. We do not attend enough to little things, and we leave
                                    too much to others. However, there are exceptions among us. My
                                    neighbor, Colonel Washington, keeps an itemized account of
                                    receipts and expenditures and oversees everything
                                    himself."
                              "Rooning de fox vas de vay most Virginia blanters deir
                                    farming do," volunteered Van Braam. "Ven dey
                                    was not hunting dey vas visiting. I vas know vell a Captain
                                    Mason and a Mr. Harrison. On Montays Captain Mason he visit Mr.
                                    Harrison. Dey hunt or fish or smoke and dalk dill Veduestay, ven
                                    Captain Mason ride home. On Durstay Mr. Harrison he go to
                                    Captain Mason's house, vere he stay dill Suntay. So it
                                    vas de year rount. Put mine frient here he was not so
                                    itle--alvays."
                              While they were still laughing over Van Braam's
                                    pleasantry, Lieutenant Lusignan arrived and received a hearty
                                    greeting from the baron and a more formal one from Toinette. All
                                    then passed into the dining-room and there partook of a light
                                    breakfast of rolls, white wine, and coffee. Quaint calèches were then brought to the door, and the
                                    whole party, including old Jeanne, entered them. Soon they had
                                    passed out of the St. John's gate, and, after skirting
                                    the plateau known as the Côte Ste Ste. Geneviève, took the road
                                    to Lorette and made their way up the picturesque valley of the
                                    St. Charles.
                              It was the kind of day when everything appears couleur
                                                de rose, and it
                                    seems good to be alive. The sky was clear, and the air was just
                                    cool enough to render grateful the early rays of the September
                                    sun. The narrow road led through a grove of tall white pines,
                                    the endless vista of whose tapering trunks seemed like the
                                    columns of some vast dream-born cathedral, all towering aloft to
                                    the vault of green above. A gentle west wind sighing through the
                                    woods stirred the smooth brown carpet of the forest floor and
                                    brought to the beholders the fragrant breath of the pines.
                              At the point where the road turned away from the St. Charles, the
                                          calèches halted before a great wooden
                                    cross reared beside the highway. Set into the upright piece was
                                    a square of glass, behind which stood a wax image of Christ on
                                    the tree, surrounded by hammer, tongs, nails, and flasks of
                                    vinegar.
                              "You will find such crosses along every highway in New
                                    France," said Alfrede to Randolph.
                                    "'T is the custom for every good Catholic to
                                    pause for a moment and say a little prayer before
                                    each."
                              All alighted, and, with the exception of Randolph and Van Braam,
                                    performed their devotions. Randolph felt touched as he gazed at
                                    the slender forms of the two beautiful girls devoutly kneeling
                                    in the sunlight before the rude cross as they paid their
                                    reverent homage. The sight of "popish
                                    practices," which as a child he had been taught to
                                    abhor, aroused in his heart no feeling of hostility.
                              The petites prières made, the party drove on, and
                                    in an hour drew near their destination. The château stood upon a
                                    ridge commanding an extensive view of the surrounding country.
                                    It was a long low structure, surmounted by overhanging gables
                                    and a steep roof, with a group of outhouses, stables, and sheds
                                    clustering near by. A little apart, beside a stream that went
                                    stumbling down the hillside, was amassive stone mill. Beyond straggled the quaint village of the
                                          habitants, with its little
                                    cross-surmounted church, and, not far away, a gallows and a
                                    pillory.
                              "Baron La Vallière is one of the few Canadian seigneurs
                                    who retain the power to execute the High Justice, the Middle,
                                    and the Low," said Alfred, noticing that
                                    Randolph's eyes dwelt upon these last-mentioned
                                    objects. "The gallows is kept up merely as a warning to
                                    evil-doers; but many a hardened coquin has
                                    occupied the pillory."
                              The seigneur showed his guests about the estate and explained to
                                    Randolph how it was managed. The barony was, in fact, a
                                    reflection in the New World of the feudalism then still existing
                                    in some parts of the Old. The baron's ancestor had
                                    received from the Crown a grant of a vast tract of land; and he,
                                    in turn, had granted parts of it to the habitants, who were technically known as censitaires--that is, for their holdings
                                    they were obliged to make certain returns in labor, money, and
                                    produce. In addition, they must pay for the privilege of
                                    grinding their corn in the lord's mill and of baking
                                    their bread in the lord's oven, and must give him one
                                    fish out of every eleven caught. The individual holdings were in
                                    long narrow strips, combining the advantage of arable ground for
                                    meadows and cultivation with forests for firewood and timber.
                                    This accounts for the long ribbon-shaped farms still noticed by
                                    travelers in parts of Lower Canada.
                              "'T is an easy tenure for the people,"
                                    said the baron, "immeasurably more so than those in
                                    France; yet the, seigneurs have difficulty in securing tenants.
                                    In times of war the men must fight; and in times of peace they
                                    run off to the woods and become lawless coureurs-de-bois. Sometimes so many of the men are
                                    away in the wilderness that, by Ste. Anne! there are not enough
                                    to marry theyoung girls. Many
                                    seigneurs have grown so poor that they have turned fur-traders,
                                    or even sunk to the condition of the habitants. More than once I have seen the daughters of
                                    seigneurs plowing in the fields."
                              "Mon Dieu!" cried Toinette,
                                    holding up her dainty hands in affeced horror, "imagine
                                    me holding a plow!"
                              "You would do it most charmingly" said Lieutenant
                                    Lusignan gallantly. "When that time comes, I shall turn
                                    plowman."
                              Presently they paused before the mill. It was a stone structure,
                                    two stories high and surmounted by a flat roof, which was
                                    surrounded with battlements, so that its general appearance was
                                    not unlike that of a small feudal castle.
                              "We are very proud of our mill," said the baron.
                                    As you will mark, it is loopholed for musketry. In 1690 my
                                    father with fifteen censitaires from behind
                                    its walls held a hundred Iroquois at bay for three days. In the
                                    final assault a mob of the naked demons gathered here before the
                                    door and endeavored to beat it in with their hatchets. The women
                                    had kept a kettle of boiling water ready for such a contingency,
                                    and poured it down upon their heads. I was but a child of three
                                    at the time; but, Ste. Anne! I can still hear them howling as
                                    the water struck them! They attempted no further attack, and
                                    next day succor arrived from Quebec."
                              "Dot vas remint me of somedings dot habben to
                                    me," said Van Braam reminiscently. "It vas ven
                                    I vas fighting Marèchal Saxe. A barty of Dutch and English, of
                                    vich I was vone, a yet smaller barty of French in a farmhouse
                                    addacked. Dwice ve vere pack trifen from de front of de house.
                                    Den I a tozen men to de rear led. I climb a latter and was apout
                                    to enter a vindow, ven peholt! a good vrouw vid a pucket!
                                          'Va-t-en!' she cry,
                                    and straight come dot vater in mine face. It was not hot, put,
                                          donder and bliksem,it dake many a draught of goot
                                    peer from my mouth dot daste to vash oudt!"
                              "And did you capture the farmhouse?" asked
                                    Alfrede.
                              "Mademoiselle," asked the Dutchman reproachfully,
                                    "do you tink Jacob Van Braam vas efer so imbolite as to
                                    obbose de vishes of a laty?"
                              "Here in the door you can still see the marks of the
                                    bullets and of the hatchets," resumed the baron, when
                                    the laughter had subsided.
                              "The mill is a strong place yet," said Randolph,
                                    examining the marks with curious eye. "A few determined
                                    men could still hold it against many, though I doubt not the
                                    door is much weaker than once it was."
                              Soon after dinner a quaint procession began to wend its way toward
                                    the château. It consisted of a few men, mostly old, and many
                                    women, carrying bags of grain, live capons, baskets of eggs,
                                    strings of fish, and other produce. Soon the grounds in front of
                                    the château presented an animated spectacle. The men smoked
                                    prodigiously; the women chattered like so many magpies; and the
                                    captive fowls, though their feet were fastened, made the most of
                                    the fact that their throats were free.
                              "'T is as noisy as a Virginia court
                                    day," commented Randolph, "but far more
                                    peaceable and polite. In such an assemblage as this in Virginia
                                    there would be a dozen fights in the course of the day. And if a
                                    French prisoner were present, he would constantly be surrounded
                                    by a jeering crowd."
                              "Perhaps that is because French prisoners are so rare in
                                    Virginia," suggested Alfrede, wickedly.
                              "For shame, Alfrede!" chided Toinette.
                                    "I think the curé yonder"--she pointed to an
                                    old priest in a rusty cassock--"has much to do with
                                    their good behavior. He is universally beloved and has much
                                    influence. Ourhabitants are quarrelsome sometimes. But now most of
                                    the young men are with the army."
                              "Ah, yes, how few men there are, indeed!"
                                    exclaimed Alfrede. "In times of peace, Captain
                                    Randolph, this assemblage would be mostly men. Now it is mostly
                                    women. But look! the ceremony is about to begin."
                              The baron seated himself in an armchair behind a table, on which
                                    lay open the censier in which were inscribed
                                    the terms of each holding. Seeing that his lord was ready, a
                                    grizzled censitaire, the oldest man present,
                                    advanced before his fellows with a sack of grain. Baring his
                                    head, he knelt before the baron and cried out:
                              "Baron La Vallière! Baron La Vallière! Baron La Vallière!
                                    I bring you the faith and homage which I am bound to bring you
                                    in consideration of my fief Du Buisson, which I hold as a man of
                                    faith of your seigneurie of La Marck,
                                    declaring that I now offer to pay my seigneurial dues and
                                    demanding that you accept my faith and homage. The labor of five
                                    days upon your demesne, which is part of my contract, has been
                                    duly performed. I bring here the two minots of
                                    wheat for the arpenta I hold, and the ten francs that complete
                                    my payment."
                              "Rise up, Pierre Michaud," said the baron,
                                    "your obligation is discharged. You have always been a
                                    faithful tenant, mon enfant."
                              The next to step forward was a woman carrying a basket of eggs and
                                    two lean capons. She was old, her cap and short ragged petticoat
                                    looked older, and her face was as brown and wrinkled as a
                                    frosted persimmon. Kneeling as had the censitaire who preceded her, she pronounced the same
                                    formula, adding: "I am here in place of my son, Henri
                                    Du Some, who is with the troops at Carillon. Monseigneur, here
                                    be a basket of eggs and two capons. Hélas, it
                                    is not enough, for I have not the money and the grain! Before seedtime my two garҫon were ordered to the war. One was
                                    killed with M. de Langy. He was a brave garҫon, and my eldest. It has been a hard year and a sad
                                    one, monseigneur. I be near to starvation already; and, mon Dieu, what I shall do when winter comes,
                                    I know not!"
                              "N'importe, Suzanne Du
                                    Some," said the baron kindly. "Your father
                                    stood with mine in the mill and did not flinch. By Ste. Anne! do
                                    I not remember how you and I and the other enfants cowered down in the corner of the mill
                                    shivering at the screeches of les peaux rouge
                                    without? Keep your fowls and eggs, and take also this bag of
                                    wheat which Pierre has brought. Your need is greater than
                                    mine."
                              "And take this also," said Randolph, stepping
                                    forward and dropping a sovereign into the old
                                    creature's wrinkled palm. "I fought against
                                    your sons, madame; who knows but that it was Henri who wounded
                                    me and caused me to fall a captive? But I wish you well, and I
                                    hope that Henri comes back to you."
                              There was a murmur of approval in the crowd, and the old curé said:
                                    "Do God and the Saints ever abandon the needy? Forget
                                    them not, Suzanne Du Some. They will bless you both for these
                                    benefactions, monseigneurs."
                              "I prayed to the Virgin and Ste. Anne de
                                    Beaupré," said Suzanne. "They heard my
                                    cry."
                              With words of thanks to the Baron and Randolph, she hobbled away
                                    and gave place to a short at censitaire,with
                                    dirty greasy hands and unkempt clothes. He was empty-handed, and
                                    told a long story of lameness and the failure of his crops. To
                                    prove the first part of his story he hobbled back and forth in
                                    front of the baron.
                              "Pardieu! Jacques Marmette,"
                                    the baron shrieked, his eyes glittering, "do you think
                                    to impose on me, you lazy beggar! I know how you escaped
                                    fighting on the samelying plea.
                                          Va-t-en you dirty rascal! Have your
                                    payment here within the hour, or a thousand devils will not save
                                    you from the stocks! I expect some day to hang you on the
                                    gallows!"
                              Forgetting his pretended lameness, the fellow, with a black look on
                                    his face, hurried off as fast as his fat legs would carry him,
                                    and gave place to other tenants, many of whom told true stories
                                    of poverty and hardship.
                              "The wolf is at our doors," said one old censitaire, bolder than the rest.
                                    "The war has ruined us. Most of our horses were killed
                                    by order of the intendant. Only a little grain could be sowed,
                                    for women and old men are weak. Even what we have harvested is
                                    soon to be taken from us in the king's name by the
                                    intendant's agents. Mon Dieu! I know
                                    not how many of us will be alive when the flowers bloom
                                    again!"
                              The baron swore his favorite oath under his breath. Further than
                                    that he said nothing, but kept on with his work. When all was
                                    done, barely half of what had been brought remained--so generous
                                    had he been.
                              "My cens et rente will not amount to a
                                    fifth part of what it should be," said he, surveying
                                    the heap somewhat ruefully. "Were it not that I must
                                    have food on which to live, I would not have exacted
                                    anything."
                              "You are generous and kind, monseigneur," said
                                    the old curé. "I would that all who are in authority in
                                    New France were like you. This will be a winter of
                                    suffering."
                              After supper in the château the baron and his party reëntered the
                                          calèches and set out for Quebec. The sun
                                    was just setting, but the long twilight of the north held until
                                    they neared the city.
                              "It has been a strange and interesting day," said
                                    Randolph to Alfrede, as they entered the valley of the St.
                                    Charles. "The barony has a charming flavor of
                                          ArcadiaExcept for the
                                    stories we heard and the scarcity of men, there was little to
                                    suggest that your nation and mine and most of Europe as well are
                                    engaged in the bloodiest war of the century. Peaceful barony!
                                    May it always remain outside the current of the conflict, and
                                    may all the husbands and sons who are away return in safety to
                                    their wives and mothers!"
                              Man has not the gift of prophecy. Little did he suppose that when
                                    another year had passed he should be engaged in the bitterest
                                    battle of his life upon the soil of that very barony, and that
                                    not only his own fate but that of the fair girl who sat beside
                                    him should hinge upon the issue.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXI
                              AN INTERRUPTION
                              FOR a week longer all was warmth and summer
                                    beauty. Then sharp winds swept down from wintry Labrador,
                                    bringing frosts that crimsoned the leaves and sent them
                                    fluttering to the earth. Soon the firt patch of snow lay
                                    gleaming on frowning Mount Tourmente. The sun set in chill
                                    autumnal splendor, and the dagger-like spires of fir-trees on
                                    the heights of Sillery rose stiff and black against the clear
                                    cold amber of the fading sky. One by one the ships for France
                                    raised their anchors, and, hoping to escape the swarm of Eng ish
                                    cruisers that lay in wait in the Gulf and off Newfoundland,
                                    dropped down the broad river. Then winter came in earnest: the
                                    earth was wrapped in snow; the river lay locked in gleaming
                                    fetters; and at intervals the evening sky was illuminated with
                                    the gorgeous spectacle of the Northern Lights.
                              Before navigation dosed, most of the troops in the frontiers betook
                                    themselves to Montreal and Quebec to winter quarters, leaving
                                    small garrisons to guard the fortresses against the hardy
                                    rangers of the English king. The capital became livelier than
                                    ever. The streets swarmed with figures wrapped in rich furs or
                                    in homespun paletots, whose vivid colors added
                                    a charming tone to the picture as their wearers trudged through
                                    the snow-drifts. La haute noblesse, the
                                    oficers, the high civil officials, and the rich bourgeois sped
                                    jingling in swift carrioles from one manor
                                    house to another; here there was a dance, there adinner, everywhere gayety, for even in a
                                    season of war when famine menaces the Frenchman loses not his
                                    light-heartedness.
                              "Such gayety and frivolity in such a time is
                                    incomprehensible to an Englishman," said Randolph one
                                    day to the Baron La Vallière. "Two days ago I attended
                                    a dinner at the palace of the intendant. There was great
                                    display, an elaborate profusion of viands, and after that lansquenet. The intendant lost eighty
                                    thousand livres."
                              "N'importe," said the
                                    baron, shrugging his shoulders, "he will make it back
                                    from the people and his king."
                              "Everywhere I go it is the same story," continued
                                    Randolph. "No one talks of anything but gambling, of
                                    louis lost, of louis gained. Sometimes it is lansquenet, sometimes trente et
                                          quarante, sometimes momons, as you
                                    call the dice game; but always it is for money. Yet on my way
                                    home last night no less than six men stopped me and said that
                                    their families were starving."
                              The baron's eyebrows contracted fiercely.
                                    "Monsieur, you are right. By Ste. Anne! it is
                                    deplorable! Sometimes I fear it is the feast of Belshazzar for
                                    Nouvelle-France. Bigot and La Grande Société are all powerful.
                                    As the Marquis de Montcalm has well said, rogues grow rich and
                                    honest men are ruined. Even the goods intended for the Indians
                                    are stolen. Eh bien, the king pays for all!
                                    The shop which you hear called La Friponne--The Cheat--is only
                                    one means whereby Bigot robs the people, but it will suffice as
                                    an example. He fixed the price of grain by edict, imposed a
                                    heavy penalty on all who refused to sell, and sent his agents
                                    through the country gathering wheat and maize. When the famine
                                    came, the people must go to La Friponne and buy back their grain
                                    at a great price.
                              His palace is the rendevous of the monde élégant etfrivole of the
                                    capital, and to his château, called the Maison de Montague,
                                    beside the high hill of Charlesbourg, resort his companions for
                                    many a debauch and revel. Gilded vice stalks in the palace,
                                    white gaunt famine preys upon the vitals of the people. All of
                                    us know, many of us regret, but, mon Dieu, we
                                    are powerless! It is the same in France. We have Bigot; France
                                    has La Pompadour. The two are in league with one another. The
                                    Frenchman is long suffering, monsieur. In that he is not like
                                    you Englishmen. Even we of the noblesse can do
                                    nothing but despise our despoilers. Deschenaux, Bigot's
                                          fidus Achates, is the son of a cobbler
                                    in Picardy. Some say that he fled to New France to escape
                                    punishment for forgery. Cadet, the commissary, is the son of a
                                    butcher; yet by his peculation he has made himself richer even
                                    that Bigot. Major Péan, who has made four million francs, is a
                                    coward; but his wife is beautiful--and Péan is complacent. Many
                                    of the others are of low birth, yet they have us in vise. Voilà tout!"
                              "Has no attempt been made to overthrow their
                                    power?"
                              "Baron de Longueval, a brave man, defied them. He swore he
                                    would go to Paris and lay the wretched condition of the country
                                    before the king. Before his ship sailed he was drawn into a
                                    duel, and fell, struck, some say, from behind. Such is likely to
                                    be the fate of all who oppose La Grande Société!"
                              That night Randolph attended a grand supper given by the
                                    governor-general. He found the old Château de St. Louis,
                                    originally built by Samuel de Champlain, the Father of New
                                    France, and reconstructed by the great Comte de Frontenac, her
                                    Preserver, brilliantly lighted for the event. The great hall was
                                    adorned with gorgeous escutcheons of the royal arms, over which
                                    were draped milk-white flags embroidered with the golden Iilies.
                                    Upon the paneled walls hung the portraits of warriors in
                                          plumedhelmets and glittering
                                    armor, of governors, intendats, and ministers of state in
                                    courtly garb, of ecclesiastics in priestly vestments--portraits
                                    which called up the romantic vision of a primeval continent
                                    conquered for civilization. All the notabilities of Quebec were
                                    there: Montcalm and the higher military officers; the chief
                                    civil officials, including the intendant and his accomplices;
                                    the great seigneurs, with their families. The hall was thronged
                                    with officers in uniform, with gentlemen in their smartest
                                    toilets of perukes, velvet coats, embroidered waistcoats, knee
                                    breeches and silk stockings; with grand dames and gay
                                    demoiselles gowned according to the lastest Parisian
                                    intelligence, with powdered hair, court plaster, ribbons, and
                                    fans. The table was laid with hunded covers. There was as much
                                    magnificence, as much profusion, as if the habitants were not dying of hunger.
                              The seating had been prearranged, and Randolph noticed with
                                    disapproval that Alfrede bad been placed next to Reparti. He was
                                    surprised to find himself beside Madame Péan. This was not their
                                    first meeting; and, little as he respected her morals, he had
                                    found her interesting. She was well born, hardly more than a
                                    girl, tall, magnificently formed, with beautiful skin, and eyes
                                    dark, fascinating, and capable of expressing every emotion in
                                    the range of human feeling. "A woman wickedly
                                    beautiful," was the way he had described her to Van
                                    Braam.
                              "You did not accept my invitation to the Rue du Parloir
                                    last evening, Captain Randolph," she said
                                    reproachfully, sweeping him with her great eyes. "Eh bien, the salon was well filled without
                                    you. Sans doute you were celebrating.
                              " Celebrating what, madame?" asked Ralndolph,
                                    mystified.
                              "The fall of Fort Duquesne."
                              "You are not jesting, madame?
                              
                              "Jesting! 'T is not jesting matter. The news
                                    arrived some days ago, but is not yet made public."
                              "Thank God!" he cried. "Have you the
                                    details?"
                              "The story is short, as all unpleasant stories should
                                    be," she said, with a shrug of her white shoulders.
                                    "When your army drew near, Captain de Ligneris, being
                                    deserted by many of his Indians, blew up his magaine and
                                    escaped. But why are you so much interested in the fate of a
                                    backwoods fort, monsieur Ie capitaine?"
                              "It means safety for our frontier settlers,
                                    madame."
                              "Les gros sauvages, lean and brown, who
                                    wear the outlandish caps of fur and fringed garments of
                                    deerskin?" she said indifferently. "But they
                                    are uninteresting. Surely Virginins are not all like them. There
                                    must be other gentlemen like you, monsieur--handsome and with
                                          thebel air."
                              She said the last with such a playful languishing air that, despite
                                    himself, Randolph's pulse beat faster.
                              "There is cultured society in Virginia, if that is what
                                    you mean. It is a pleasant land, and there is much wealth and
                                    luxury."
                              "Ah, luxury?" she cried. "Then it would
                                    please me. I was made for luxury. To laugh, to sing, to dance,
                                    to enjoy as one will--that is life! But observe the glances the
                                    governor is casting at the Marquis de Montcalm. Ma
                                          foi, no love is wasted there, monsieur! The governor
                                    is a jealous man. I believe he suffered more from Carillon than
                                    if it had been a French defeat. But there are others who are
                                    jealous for other causes, so I must needs be
                                    careful."
                              "To whom do you refer now?" he asked, pretending
                                    not to understand.
                              She laughed teasingly.
                              Yonder are Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre and Captain 194 THE PATH OF GLOIRY
                                    Reparti?" she said, avoiding a direct answer.
                                    "Is it true that she is to wed the captain?
                                    "
                              "Why do you ask me, madame?"
                              "Enough!" she cried. "I see that you are
                                    no impartial witness. But why should you be troubled? You should
                                    adopt the French philosophy and love her who is with you, for be
                                    sure that she who is absent is false. Virginia, I am told, is
                                    further south even than Provence. There should be warm blood
                                    there."
                              "Assuredly such philosophy would be easy if one's
                                    partner were always as beautiful as she is at present,"
                                    he retaliated, determined to play the game.
                              "Fameux! you progress! You will not need
                                    many lessons. Aleady I begin to fear you!"
                              She said this gayly, and with aglance that would have carried most
                                    men off their feet.
                              During the rest of the supper they fenced thus. Madame was
                                    undeniably charming and possessed a wit that was infectious. The
                                    audacity of some of her double ententes almost
                                    took Randolph's breath away. These he pretended not to
                                    understand; but she was clever enough to perceive that he did
                                    and rallied him for bashfulness. Randolph felt astonished at his
                                    own fertility of resource. Their little duel attracted much
                                    attention. Alfrede at first looked surprised, then plunged into
                                    conversation with the delighted Reparti. From his seat next
                                    Vaudreuil, the usually complacent intendant more than once
                                    glanced at the handsome young Virginian with manifest
                                    uneasiness.
                              When the company rose, before the dancing and inevitable card
                                    playing began, Randolph joined a group that included Vaudreuil,
                                    Montcalm, and Bigot. The talk was of military matters; and the
                                    morose-appearing governor, in a manner egotistical to the last
                                    degree, was discussing Montclm'e campaigns and uttering
                                    much half-veiled criticism.
                              
                              "If," said he, " our army had followed
                                    up its success at Fort William Henry by an attack on Fort
                                    Edward, Albany could have been captured, my plans would have
                                    been carried out, and the Engish would have been
                                    cowed."
                              Montcalm, whose temper was as warm as the sky of his own Provence,
                                    flashed up at this carping. "Mon
                                          Dieu!" he exclaimed, "there is no
                                    use in repeating chimeras. I have explained twenty times already
                                    that the Indians would not follow me. Your own orders were to
                                    send the Canadians home so that they might gather the harvest.
                                    Fort Edward stands remote from Lake St. Sacrament. I had no
                                    means of transporting my artillery. When I go to war, I do the
                                    best I can according to my feeble ability. When one is not
                                    content with one's lieutenant, be should take command
                                    in person and execute his own ideas."
                              This plain speech, the culmination of a long-smouldering hostility
                                    between the two men, produced a sensation. The officers from
                                    France uttered little murmurs of applause, but many of the
                                    Canadians frowned. The jaunty Bigot toyed with the frills of old
                                    lace about his wrists and smiled the cynical smile of one who
                                    enjoys a onflict. Vaudreuil's face grew black, and he
                                    muttered between set teeth:
                              "Perhaps next year I shall."
                              "Then," said Montcalm suavely, "I shall
                                    be delighted to serve under you."
                              With all his egotism, Vaudreuil lacked courage. For the moment he
                                    was silenced. But his wife, a pompous over-dressed lady, who was
                                    as provincial as himself, cried:
                              "If the Marquis de Vaudreuil does take command, we shall
                                    see what a real general can do!"
                              "That is quite possible," said Montcalm in a low
                                    voice; "but, madame, saving due respect, I have the
                                    honour to tell you that ladies ought not to talk
                                    war."
                              
                              "Mon Dieul! they are quite capable of
                                    talking it to such as you!" she hissed.
                              "Madame," he repeated icily, "saving due
                                    respect, permit me to say, that if Madame de Montcalm were here
                                    and heard me talking war with the Marquis de Vaudreuil, she
                                    would hold her peace."
                              This silenced Madame, but her husband had by this time recovered
                                    his aplomb and was unwilling to quit the argument.
                              " Here is Captain Randolph, an Englishman," he
                                    said. "We will leave it to him if an advance on Fort
                                    Edward would not have resulted in the fall of that
                                    fortress."
                              All eyes were turned on the young Virgnian. As he cast about for a
                                    reply, he remembered that he admired Montcalm as a gallant
                                    chivalrous enemy, while he hated the governor as the instigator
                                    of the awful horrors on the western frontier. As a result, his
                                    answer was marked with candor rather than discretion.
                              "Messieurs," he said, "I am not
                                    competent to speak from a personal knowledge of the campaign of
                                    1757 about Lake George. At that time I was engaged on our
                                    western border trying to drive back the hordes of savages whom
                                    Your Excelleny"--looking at Vaudreui--"had
                                    seen fit to set upon our unprotected settlers. But since the
                                    military merit of the Marquis de Montcalm seems called in
                                    question, this I will say, namely, that were the Most Christian
                                    King to recall him to Fiance, a, great sigh of relief would go
                                    up from every soldier in the English colonies."
                              Vaudreuil scowled fiercely, and the cynical smile on
                                    Bigot's face for a fleeting instant gave place to one
                                    of hate.
                              "Do you consider the opinions of British soldiers of much
                                    value?" the governor sneered, forgetting that it was
                                    his own question that had brought Randolph's reply.
                              "You should not forget" Randolph retorted
                                          quietly, "that
                                    there were British soldiers at Crécy, Poitiers, and Agincourt,
                                    at Blenheim, Ramillies, Oudenarde, Malplaquet, and
                                    Dettingen."
                              "Ha! ha!" exclaimed Bigot sarcastically,
                                    "he will next be telling us that British troops will
                                    soon be before Quebec."
                              "That is not so impossible as you seem to think,"
                                    said Randolph, growing more and more nettled. "Now that
                                    Louisburg is ours, what,in the name of God, is to prevent
                                    it?"
                              "Aye," said Montcalm under his breath,
                                    "what is there?"
                              "Methinks the recent news from the Ohio is somewhat
                                    ominous," continued"Randolph. "I have
                                    heard some here say that Fort Duquesne would never be taken;
                                    but, by your own report, the Gateway to the West is
                                    ours."
                              The shot struck home. It was all the more effective because only a
                                    few of those present knew the secret. Vaudreuil was at a loss
                                    for a reply, but Bigot shrugged his shoulders and sneered.
                              "Brave words, brave words, for a prisoner! One would think
                                    you from our own Gascony and not from Virginia."
                              "Perhaps," said Randolph; "but if next
                                    summer I am still in Quebec, I shall be dodging bombs fired by
                                    my own countrymen. Englishmen, Monsieur I'Intendant, do
                                    not stop until they are victors. When their enemies are ready to
                                    cry quits, they have just begun to fight. But if all among
                                    you"--looking at Vaudreuil--"prove as able
                                    soldiers as the Marquis de Montcalm, and all among
                                    you"--looking at Bigot--"prove as pure
                                    patriots as he, then the golden lilies over the citadel will
                                    never be replaced by the dragon of St. George."
                              "Superb! superb!" cried Bigot ironically,
                                    clapping his white hands. "But summer is far in the
                                    future, and many things may befall ere it comes, as monsieur Ie
                                    capitaine will perhaps learn."
                              
                              There seemed to be a hidden significance behind his words that
                                    Randolph did not understand; but before he could reply the music
                                    struck up, dancing began, and a servant came to announce that
                                    the tables were ready for pharaon. Willingly
                                    enough, the group at once broke up, some to dance, some to play,
                                    and some to look on.
                              Randolph danced several numbers with Toinette and other demoiselles
                                    of his acquaintance and was just going in search of Alfrede when
                                    Madame Péan laid a detaining hand on his arm.
                              "You bearded the lions magnificently, monsieur le
                                    capitaine," she said laughing. "You now have
                                    two deadly enemies, the governor and the intendant--but, ciel! a mere bagatelle to a bold man. I
                                    adore bold men when they are handsome, monsieur.
                              " As she said the last she gave his arm a playful pinch
                                    and glanced daringly at him through half-closed lids.
                              "Come with me," she continued, still holding his
                                    arm. "I want you to tell me more about your fascinating
                                    Virginia. Here, monsieur, this room is just what we are seeking.
                                    See, there are no people, and none are likely to come. Let us
                                    sit on this divan. Now let me hear all about the ladies of
                                    Virginia, how they amuse themselves, how they are courted, how
                                    they marry, and how they deceive their husbands."
                              Wondering vaguely at her interest, Randolph launched into a
                                    description of Virginian society and social customs.
                              "It is all interesting--intensely charming, the life you
                                    lead," she said presently, drawing closer and looking
                                    straight into his eyes. "But are the ladies of Virginia
                                    as beautiful as those of Quebec?"
                              The personal compliment trembled on his tongue. The temptation was
                                    great. In all his life he had never seen a more perfect face and
                                    figure. Her skin was as soft and delicate as a child's;
                                    her rosy half-open lips showed smalland beautifully even teeth. The neck that supported the
                                    imperious head was as shapely as was ever graven by a sculptor,
                                    and round it ran a string of glittering diamonds that fell
                                    rippling upon a bosom white as the snow on topmost Mount
                                    Tourmente. Withal she looked more like a schoolgirl fresh from
                                    her first communion than an intendant's mistress--save
                                    that out of the lustrous eyes beneath the arched brows shone a
                                    hint of the diablerie that had made her what she was.
                              "Those of both countries are superlatively fair,"
                                    he said cautiously, not daring to look into her face.
                              "Oh!" she cried petulantly, uttering a little
                                    sigh and drawing so close that her breath fanned his cheek and
                                    her warm hands fell as if by accident upon his, "you
                                    Englishmen are so cold! But I--I am not cold, monsieur! No one
                                    is near, why do you fear?"
                              There was a sound of footsteps outside the door, and a man coughed.
                                    Before Randolph realized what she was about, madame had her arms
                                    about his neck and was kissing him madly upon the mouth. For a
                                    moment everything swam before his sight. Then he recovered
                                    himself and pushed her from him.
                              As he did so, he heard a girl's voice utter a little cry.
                                    He looked up, and saw in the doorway Alfrede de Saint-Pierre and
                                    Monsieur Deschenaux, a heavy man with a vast wart on his
                                    nose.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXII
                              A BLOW FALLS
                              BEFORE breakfast next morning Randolph and Van
                                    Braam heard Madame Mercier parleying with some one outside the
                                    front door.
                              "Certainly there must be some mistake," they
                                    heard her say.
                              "There is no mistake, madame," a man's
                                    voice made answer. "I command you to open in the
                                    King's name!"
                              Running to a window, Randolph and Van Braam saw in the street
                                    outside a file of white-coated grenadiers. A moment later their
                                    door was thrown open, and a lieu tenant and two soldiers strode
                                    into their apartment. Behind the intruders appeared the
                                    frinedfacs omaam and Louise.
                              "What means this intrusion?" demanded Randolph of
                                    the lieutenant.
                              "You are Captain Randolph, are you not?" asked
                                    the' officer, by way of reply.
                              "Yes," returned Randolph stiffly,
                                    "I'am."
                              "Eh, bien, I have an order from the
                                    governor-general for your arrest. You are my prisoner. Make
                                    ready to acompany me."
                              "For what reason? What is the charge?" gasped
                                    Randolph, in astonishment.
                              "On the charge of plotting to burn Quebec. One of your
                                    minions has been caught and has confessed, monsieur. He had with
                                    him directions in your own handwriting."
                              
                              
                                    "'You are Captain Randolph,
                                          are you not?' asked the officer."
                                    Page200
                              
                              
                              "What minion? What directions? What are you talking
                                    about?"
                              "Ha! ha! but monsieur is the very master of dissimulation!
                                    However, I fear it will not avail him before the court martial.
                                    We have documentary proof, and I doubt not his judges will be
                                    less merciful than they were with Major Stobo when he made plans
                                    of Fort Duquesne. The time has come when an example must be
                                    made."
                              "Captain Van Braam, have you any idea what this
                                    means?" asked Randolph, turning to his friend.
                              "Mine Cott!" replied the Dutchman, "it
                                    vas as much to me a mystery as it vas to you. Dere must some
                                    mistake pe, or else it vas a drick."
                              "Come! come!" exclaimed the lieutenant
                                    impatiently. "What is the use of all this talk? My
                                    order alo specifies that I should search your room. Jacquesl
                                    Pierrel Look through his wardrobe, while I examine this
                                    escritoire."
                              "You are welcome to all the discoveries you can
                                    make," Randolph said confidently, and then awaited the
                                    result with indifference.
                              The lieutenant rummaged among the papers, and presently held one up
                                    in triumph.
                              "Mon Dieu!" he cried
                                    sarcastically. "If I had been in your shoes, Captain
                                    Randolph, with life the forfeit of discovery, I would have been
                                    more careful. See, here I have found your map of the city, with
                                    the buildings indicated that were to be fired. The handwriting
                                    is the same as these letters signed by you. I shall keep all as
                                    evidence."
                              Randolph sprang to the lieutenant's side, and saw that the
                                    officer did indeed have the paper he described. Here and there
                                    upon it were written in a hand very like his own such
                                    inscriptions as: "Jean is to fire the Château and the
                                    Bishop's Residence;" "I have bribed a
                                    soldier to blow up the Magazine. With Quebec destroyed, New
                                          France will fall an easy
                                    Prey this Year. Will Knighthood be too great a Reward to expect
                                    for such a Service?" For moment the Virginian was too
                                    much astonished for utterance; the walls of the room and
                                    everything within them seemed whirling round him.
                              "You do have such a map," he admitted weakly;
                                    "but I did not make it."
                              "Tut! tut!" sneered the lieutenant, "the
                                    case is as plain as the nose on Jacques's face, and
                                    assuredly that is plain enough. What is the use of denial? Where
                                    is your honor as a soldier, monsieur? Does your parole count for
                                    nothing?"
                              "You will live to regret those words," said
                                    Randolph.
                              "I fear not," mocked the Frenchman.
                                    "Why, even your friend here believes you
                                    guilty."
                              Randolph turned to Van Braam, and saw that, in truth, there was on
                                    the Dutchman's honest face a look of suspicion he was
                                    unable to conceal.
                              "Did you forget yourself, Charles?" Van Braam
                                    asked miserably.
                              "I did not!" cried the Virginian. "I
                                    swear to you by the God in Heaven that I had never before set
                                    eyes on that paper or the one he says was captured! Do you think
                                    me a fool as well as a knave?"
                              "I peliefe you," said Van Braam, in a tone that
                                    showed vast relief; "and you vill forgife. I dought
                                    berhaps you might haf to dempdation yielded as did Stobo. Put it
                                    was a blot of your enemies, tank Cott!"
                              "Parbleu!" the lieutenant
                                    exclaimed, "he will have the devil of a time convincing
                                    the court-martial of that. But, enough of talk. I will trouble
                                    you for your sword, monsieur."
                              For a moment, rendered thoroughly desperate, Randolph wildly
                                    considered selling his life then and there. VanBraam, seeing what was in his mind,
                                    sprang forward and seized the hand he had laid on his sword
                                    hilt.
                              "No! no! Charles, not dot!"he cried.
                                    "Gif yourself up. Ve vill a vay find to glear
                                    you."
                              Thus advised and being really powerless to do otherwise, Randolph
                                    handed over his weapon and announced that he was at the
                                    lieutenant's disposal.
                              "My orders are to allow you no chance of escape,"
                                    said the lieutenant, after he had taken the sword.
                                    "Having once broken your parole, monsieur, you must
                                    expect no favors. Jacques! Pierre! Secure him."
                              The two soldiers tightly pinioned the prisoner's arms
                                    behind him. A cloak was then thrown around his shoulders; his
                                    hat was put upon his head; and, amid the tears and protests of
                                    madame and Louise, he was led from the house and placed in the
                                    midst of the grenadiers.
                              "Good-by, all of you," he called to Van Braam and
                                    the two women.
                              "Adieu," they answered; while Van Braam added:
                                    "Dake heart. I vill at vonce inform your friends. All
                                    shall pe done dot can pe."
                              "En avant, mas enfants, to the
                                    jail!" broke in the lieutenant.
                              The order was obeyed and over the crisp snow cruched prisoner and
                                    guards. Their way led along the street called Palace Hill, past
                                    the Church of the Récollets, across the Place d'Armes,
                                    and past the Intendant's Palace, at the rear of which
                                    stood the prison. The clear air was intensely cold; few people
                                    were abroad to gaze at the procession; but as he neared the
                                    palace Randolph saw ahead a bulky fur-wrapped figure which
                                    seemed to be awaiting their approach.
                              "Aho! it is Captain Randolph, is it?" exclaimed a
                                    jeering voie. Looking at the man more closely, the prisonersaw that it was Reparti.
                                    "One wouldi nfer that monsieur is in
                                    trouble."
                              "Yes, thanks no doubt to you," said Randolph
                                    sullenly.
                              "Monsieur does me too much honor."
                              Randolph' anger flared up hot and fierce.
                                    "Someday, you devil," he cried, "I
                                    hope to stand face to face with you. When that day comes,
                                    beware!"
                              "Hélas!" exclaimed the
                                    Frenchman, with well-simulated regret. "I fear that day
                                    will never be. A rope and not my sword will be your instrument
                                    of death."
                              "The noose is not yet tied, and Fortune's wheel
                                    sometimes turns quickly. I tell you, you wolf, that some day I
                                    shall kill you! I spared you once; I wil lno tdo it
                                    again!"
                              "When was that?" asked Reparti, incredulously yet
                                    with interest.
                              "The night after I rescued Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre
                                    from the Iroquois. You passed within twenty yards of where I was
                                    standing guard. I had my rife pointed at your heart. I had only
                                    to touch the trigger, and you would have been food for
                                    wolves."
                              "Such an opportunity comes but once, monsieur. You were a
                                    fool for letting it pass."
                              "So I think now. Do you know why I did not kill you? It
                                    was because it is an Englishman's nature to fight fair.
                                    But another time will come when I can do it honorably. I say
                                    again, Beware!"
                              "Tut! tut!" sneered Reparti. "You talk
                                    again as you did last night. Mon Dieu! it is
                                    to laugh!"
                              "March on! in God's name, march on!"
                                    cried Randoph to the soldiers, who had paused during the recontre. "Why do you keep me here
                                    listening to this ruffian's jibes?"
                              "Oui, en avant, mes enfants,"
                                    said Reparti. "Take the incendiary away. I know a far
                                    more charming person to talk with. I am losing
                                    time."
                              
                              Thus adjured, the guard moved on and entered the gloomy precincts
                                    of the prison. After the lieutenant had explained his errand to
                                    the jailer, that dignitary called a keeper, who took down a
                                    bunch of enormous keys and led the way to a cell. The keeper was
                                    a large man, with a coarse cunning look about his eyes, and
                                    canine teeth so long and prominent that, though partially
                                    concealed by a growth of bushy black beard, they had procured
                                    for him among his fellows the name of Dent-de-Loup.
                              "This is where we put men whom we expect soon to
                                    hang," said he, chuckling diabolically as he opened the
                                    door. "Pardieu, I wish I could put
                                    more English devils into it!"
                              Randolph entered, and his arms were unbound. His captors then made
                                    ready to leave him.
                              "Adieu, monsieur," said the lieutenant.
                                    "This apartment is not so luxurious as some in the
                                    intendant's palace, but you should be grateful that you
                                    are here and not in the dungeon of the citadel."
                              The heavy door clanged shut, and Randolph found himself at liberty
                                    to examine his abode. The cell was, indeed, far from luxurious.
                                    It was just large enough to contain a narrow cot, a rude chair,
                                    a small table, a stove, and a heap of pine wood. A dim light
                                    entered from a little window, across which stout iron bars were
                                    securely fixed. The walls were of stone. To force one's
                                    way out of such a place would be manifestly impossible; but, as
                                    if to make assurance doubly sure, a sentinel paced back and
                                    forth in the courtyard without, and the sound of measured
                                    footfalls informed the prisoner that a guard patrolled the
                                    corridor within.
                              After ascertaining all these things and thinking long upon his
                                    situation, Randolph lay down upon the little cot. For the first
                                    time since the war began, he gave way to despair.
                              
                              For two days he saw no one save the sentinels without and the
                                    keeper who brought his meager meals. Those were melancholy days,
                                    and oft the prisoner wondered if he still had friends and if
                                    they were working for him. Had Van Braam, too, been imprisoned?
                                    Did Montcalm believe him guilty? And Alfrede? Would it, in
                                    truth, be his fate to be hanged, exposed to the scorn of his
                                    country's enemies, perhaps despised by his dearest
                                    friends?
                              It was not the first time he had faced death. A score of times
                                    since that fateful journey to the Ohio he had stood in that grim
                                    presence, but never before had death appeared in so frightful a
                                    form. To fall with honor on some ensanguined field was a fate
                                    little to be feared. But to die upon the scaffold? Ah, that was
                                    another thing! More than once in his bitter reflections he found
                                    it in his heart to wish that the bullet he had received at
                                    Ticonderoga had gone a little lower.
                              But in the end his healthy spirits won the day. He was not the man
                                    to surrender without a struggle. His was a masterly spirit; the
                                    determination to conquer, a life-long habit. Young as he was,
                                    this habit had developed a strength of will that no crisis or
                                    danger, however great, could long intimidate. Though he knew
                                    that the foes who had plotted his downfall would stop at nothing
                                    to insure his destruction, he would not sink without a struggle.
                                    He remembered the cruelties of which those enemies had been
                                    guilty. Again in fancy he stood amid the smouldering ruins of
                                    the stockade on the Opequon and saw the black vultures,
                                    ghoul-like, rise heavily from nameless horrors. Again he climbed
                                    the laurel-covered mountain side and gazed down with twitching
                                    fingers at the mutilated body of the murdered woman. Before his
                                    eyes rose the handsome eager face of a roguish child gathering
                                    violets in a brush-enumbered clearing. Where was that little
                                    lad? No! no! the monsters guilty
                                    of those deeds must not triumph! By God Eternal, they should not
                                    triumph! All that he had planned and promised should yet come to
                                    pass. Somewhere, somehow, he would even rescue the little boy
                                    and restore him to his parents' arms. Alfrede should
                                    yet believe in him. Ah, Alfrede! What must she think of the
                                    scene between him and Madame Péan? Why had he not declared
                                    himself before? "'T was that I wished to take
                                    no chance of losing by speaking too quickly," he
                                    excused himself.
                              On the morning of the third day he heard voices in the corridor.
                                    Presently his door opened, disclosing fist the malevolent face
                                    of Dent-de-Loup and then the honest countenance of Van
                                    Braam.
                              "Mine Cott, mine frient, I had vone hard dime gedding de
                                    brivilege of seeing you!" the Dutchman exclaimed,
                                    shaking Randolph's hand. "I pesieged de
                                    governor-general. 'No,' said he, 'you
                                    may not see de rascal!' I appealed to the Marquis de
                                    Montcalm. At first he teclare he could do noddings, for
                                    Vaudreuil is his superior; put at last he consented to speak to
                                    de governor, and de orter was obtained."
                              "What news have you?" asked Randolph eagerly.
                              "None goot," said the Dutchman soberly.
                                    "Py heaven, mine frient, you vas in a dight blace! De
                                    broof against you seems comblete. Most peliefe you guilty. Even
                                    Montcalm he was at first afraid you was py batriotism avay
                                    carried. I say to him: 'Captain Rantolph is de soul of
                                    honor. Pesides he vas no fool! You know he has
                                    enemies.' Den he nod his head, look bleased, and visper
                                    dot it vas all a blot, dot he pelieve in your honor: As for de
                                    beople, dey cry, 'Down vid de incendiary!' Dey
                                    dalks apout your speech at de tinner and nod deir heads.
                                    'De English may come,' say dey; 'put
                                          he vill not see
                                    dem!'"
                              
                              "'T is just as I feared," said Randolph.
                                    Then he asked in the manner of one who dreads answer:
                                    "What does Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre
                                    think?"
                              "Mine Cott!" cried the Dutchman, "dere
                                    vas de greatest buzzle of all. She say, 'I vill swear
                                    he is innocent;' put ven I ask, 'Haf you no
                                    message?' she say, 'No!' short like
                                    dot. 'I vant nefer him to see again. Let him get his
                                    comfort from Madame Péan!' I know not vat ofer her haf
                                    come."
                              A thought that was wondrous comforting flashed into
                                    Randolph's mind. Next he began to laugh. His friend
                                    viewed this change with such evident alarm that he laughed the
                                    louder.
                              "Vat in de vorld vas de matter vid you now?" Van
                                    Braam demanded.
                              "I begin to see everything, and it is ludicrous You will
                                    think me stupid for not having guessed it before," said
                                    Randolph. Then he told the astonished Van Braam of his
                                    experience with Madame Péan and of the inopportune arrival on
                                    the scene of Monsieur Deschenaux and Alfrede. "And all
                                    this time I have supposed that madame had taken a passing fancy
                                    to me, and that Alfrede's appearance was an
                                    accident!"
                              "Monsieur Deschenaux has he not a great vart on his
                                    nose?" demanded Van Braam eagerly.
                              "You have guessed it. He is the villain who set those
                                    three rascals on to murder us. Furthermore he is said to have
                                    fled from France years ago to escape punishment for forgery.
                                    'T was doubtless he who forged the papers. Oh, they are
                                    clever rascals!"
                              "Dey dry steal your honor and your lady lofe at
                                    vonce," cried Van Braam. "Mine
                                    Cott!"
                              'The question now is," said Randolph, after a
                                    little pause, "how are we to circumvent their designs?
                                    My neck does not feel as though it were made for a
                                    halter."
                              
                              "And pesides you not vant to lose Mademoiselle Alfrede,
                                    no?" laughed Van Braam, whose spirits were beginning to
                                    rise now that the source of danger was known. "Eh,
                                    vell, 'Alle begin is mocielijk; Efery
                                    peginning is difficult,' says a broverb in poth our
                                    latnguages. Put pefore ve make an effort to start, bermit me one
                                    question to ask you."
                              "As many as you like," said Randolph.
                              "If you vere de aldernatif offered to pe hung or to lose
                                    mademoiselle, vich, mine friend, vould you dake?"
                              Randolph reddened, and Van Braam laughed.
                              "I'd take the hanging," stammered the
                                    prisoner at last.
                              "I dought so, put I vas not quite sure. I vanted to pe
                                    pefore I vent farther. Since it vas as it vas, de first ding to
                                    pe underdaken is to safe for you mademoiselle. Afder dot ve can
                                    see apout de hanging maype."
                              "How are you going to set about it?" asked
                                    Randolph, with poorly concealed eagerness.
                              "Dot I must haf dime to dink out. Mine Cott! mine goot
                                    frient, do you pelief dot I carry an assortment of blans for
                                    reconciling distressed lofers around in mine head so dot I haf
                                    put to select de vone for de emergency fit?"
                              Randolph admitted that to expect so much would be somewhat
                                    unreasonable.
                              "Eh, vell, I vill go now," said Van Braam, rising
                                    from the chair in which he had been sitting and rapping on the
                                    door in order to attract the attention of Dent-de-Loup, who had
                                    retired to the corridor. "Since you vas not able to
                                    addend to dem, I vill dake all your affairs in mine hands and do
                                    as I see fit. Dink ofer your sins, for your enemies are bowerful
                                    and may driumph yet. You may pe sure dey vill stop at noddings
                                    dot dey tare dry. Put pefore I go you must bromise me dot in a
                                    certain case you vill not pe pashful. You vas pashful too long
                                    already yet. Vill you promise?"
                              
                              "What do you mean?" asked Randolph, puzzled.
                              "Dot I vill not dell you, for I vish not to arouse false
                                    hopes," answered Van Braam decisively. "You
                                    vill de dime recognize if it comes. Vill you
                                    bromise?"
                              "I promise," agreed Randolph. "Farevell
                                    den, and may Cott pe vid us!" said the Dutchman.
                              After a hearty handshake he was gone. The door clanged shut after
                                    him. The rusty bolt slid into place. Again the prisoner was left
                                    to his solitary refletions.
                        
                        
                        
                               CHAPTER XXIII
                              ALFREDE
                              AFTER leaving the prison Van Braam hurried along
                                    the snowy streets to the La Vallière mansion. He found Toinette
                                    and Alfrede sitting near a sunny window, busy, according to the
                                    custom of the country, with their needlework. Both sprang up and
                                    hurried to greet him. There was an anxious question in
                                    Alfrede's eyes, but Toinette was the first to
                                    speak.
                              "What news have you from Captain Randolph?" she
                                    cried. "I am glad the poor man has one good friend,
                                    even though Alfrede has deserted him. Englishman as he is, I do
                                    not believe him guilty."
                              "I am rejoiced that he has so fair and able an
                                    advocate," said Van Braam in French. "He is in
                                    need of friends, though I believe we have discovered who is back
                                    of the plot to ruin him."
                              "Tell us quickly," Toinette demanded.
                              "Give me time, give me time," he protested in the
                                    same language, which he spoke better than English. "It
                                    is something of a story, and I am out of breath. You will
                                    recall, mademoiselles, that the first evening our friend was in
                                    Quebec he and I were attacked by three ruffians, set on, so one
                                    confessed, by a heavy man with a wart on his fae. We think this
                                    man is a person who came to New France to escape punishment for
                                    forgery. 'T was doubtless he who forged the papers, and
                                    he also engaged in another plot the evening of the
                                    dinner."
                              
                              "Is this man Monsieur Deschenaux?" cried Alfrede
                                    eagerly.
                              "The same," said Van Braam, still in French. Then
                                    he added in English: "He blayed a bart vid Madame Péan.
                                    Now do you understand somedings?"
                              "Oh!" said Alfrede in a tone that meant many
                                    things.
                              "What are you two talking about?" Toinette
                                    demanded petulantly.
                              "I was saying that Monsieur Deschenaux is a friend of
                                    Madame Péan's," said Van Braam blandly.
                              "Was that all?" said Toinette. "I do not
                                    believe it was. Alfrede, what has come over you? You suddenly
                                    look more cheerful than you have since the evening of the
                                    dinner, when you came home so disconsolate. One would think
                                    those English sentences conveyed some tender message from
                                    Captain Randolph."
                              "Perhaps they did, ma chérie,"
                                    said Alfrede archly, giving her friend a little squeeze.
                              "Eh, bien, I see that I must learn
                                    English," Toinette said resignedly.
                              "Is Captain Randolph in good spirits?" asked
                                    Alfrede shyly, ignoring Toinette's remark.
                              "Good for a man in his position, but I think he would like
                                    to have some of his friends visit him."
                              "I 'll have papa take me!" Toinette
                                    cried. "I know we can get permission. I danced with the
                                    governor the other evening, and I'm sure he will not
                                    refuse me anything. Of course Alfrede will not care to
                                    go."
                              "I 'll go if I may," said Alfrede,
                                    vainly endeavoring to keep back the telltale flush.
                              "What! did I hear aright? Mon Dieu! I
                                    thought you wished never to see him again. Only this morning you
                                    said so. What has happened to change you?, But, of course, you
                                    can go. If we were to go without you, theprisoner would be disappointed; and,
                                    besdes, Lieuten--I mean my admirers might be
                                    jealous."
                              Presently Van Braam rose to go. Both girls accompanied him to the
                                    door. Just before he departed he turned to Alfrede and said:
                                    "A little while ago I said something in English that
                                    only you understood; now I wish to honor Mademoiselle Toinette
                                    with a confidence." "Certainly," said
                                    Alfrede, and withdrew.
                              The Dutchman sagely whispered something into Toinette's
                                    pretty pink ear, whereat she smiled and nodded knowingly.
                              With that he departed. Toinette at once sought her father. When she
                                    found him, she announced her purpose of visiting the prisoner.
                                    The old baron made no objection, for she was an only child and
                                    since her mother's death he rarely opposed her in anything.
                                    Besides, though an ardently patriotic Frenchman, he liked
                                    Randolph and was one of the few who doubted his guilt.
                                    Accordingly, Toinette hurried off a messenger to Vaudreuil with
                                    a note asking in phrases full of pretty compliments the desired
                                    permission. As the event proved, her boast of influence had been
                                    no idle one; by mid-afternoon she was in possession of the
                                    coveted order.
                              Behold them, then, setting out for the prison. The baron was
                                    dressed in full regalia, with his three-cornered hat on his head
                                    and his bejeweled sword at his side, but was withal so bundled
                                    up in furs that little of his rich clothing and only the tip of
                                    his beak-like nose were visible. The girls, also, had attired
                                    themselves in a manner fitting to do honor to the prisoner; but
                                    they, too, were so hidden by heavy wraps that onlookers caught
                                    only feeting glimpses of dainty furbelows and other products of
                                    the modiste's art. Recognized by but few, the party
                                    reached the prison. Pasing the sentinels who paced without, they
                                          entered, and the baron
                                    showed the governor's order to the jailer. That official was at
                                    once all obsequiousness. After delivering himself of several
                                    high-flown compliments to the ladies and expressing his envy of
                                    a captive so happy as to have such nymphs call on him, he
                                    ordered Dent-de-Loup to conduct the party to Randolph's
                                    cell.
                              Meanwhile the prisoner had been thinking over for the thousandth
                                    time the long train of events that had connected him with
                                    Alfrede. He had again lived through the exciting moments of her
                                    rescue from the Iroquois and the sweet pleasures of the journey
                                    to Presqu'isle, and had reached the moment of parting,
                                    when a key grated in the lock, and his door swung open.
                                    Springing to his feet, he perceived first the repulsive features
                                    of the keeper, next the friendly countenance of the baron, then
                                    the piquant face of Mademoiselle Toinette, and finally the
                                    blushing, lovely, anxious face of Alfrede. Suddenly his dark
                                    cell seemed transformed into a place of light and cheer and
                                    happiness.
                              "Mon Dieu!" the baron cried,
                                    when the greetings were over, "we are sorely grieved to
                                    find you in such unhappy condition. I know, monsieur,"
                                    he continued, lowering his voice to a whisper, "who is
                                    back of this. C'est La Grande
                                    Société, of which I told you. But do not despair. We will
                                    find a way to free you."
                              "May heaven reward you for your coming and for your kind
                                    words," said Randolph, with deep feeling:
                                    "'T is worth imprisonment to know that one has
                                    friends who will not desert him, even when his guilt seems
                                    clear."
                              The baron now pressed the prisoner for the details of his arrest
                                    and also inquired concerning his suspicions. Randolph answered
                                    as best he could; but before the old nobleman's
                                    curiosity was fully satisfied Toinette plucked him by the sleeve
                                    and said: "Papa, let us ask the jailerto be kind and considerate to our poor
                                    friend. Let us go at once, else perhaps he may be leaving the
                                    prison on some duty. Alfrede can stay and keep Captain Randolph
                                    company."
                              All unsuspecting and nothing loth to undertake the only thing that
                                    seemed to furnish any immediate prospect for doing the prisoner
                                    a service, the baron limped obediently after his daughter; and
                                    thus, as Van Braam had planned, Alfrede and Randolph were left
                                    alone together. Mentally blessing Toinette, Randolph did not
                                    forget the Dutchman's parting injunction and his own
                                    promise.
                              "It does memore good than I can tell to have you
                                    come," he said gently, looking ardently into her
                                    eyes.
                              "Oh," she cried, "I fear you are in such
                                    danger! This gloomy prison, this comfortless cell, make me have
                                    dark forebodings. Yet I am so helpless. When I was a prisoner,
                                    you came and rescued me. But what can I, a poor weak girl, do
                                    for you?"
                              He stepped closer but could not speak. A warm flush suffused her
                                    face. Her breath came quickly. And in the dark eyes she lifted
                                    momentarily to his was a look there could be no mistaking.
                              "Alfrede!" he whispered joyously.
                                    "Alfrede!" And he took her in his arms. She
                                    hid her face in his coat but did not try to free herself.
                              "You are my lily of France and not a poor weak
                                    girl," he said. "Have you forgotten the
                                    warning you gave us at the little fort in the wilderness from
                                    which next day you waved us bon voyage? The
                                    happiest moment of my life was when, by heavenly chance, I saved
                                    you from the savages and paid the debt. Do you think my heart
                                    was light when we said good-by? Sleeping or waking, on the march
                                    or beside the wintry campfire, victor or wretched prisoner, my
                                    thoughts have ever been of the fair sweetgirl of Fort Le Bœuf. My dearest dream
                                    of happiness has been of some transcendent day when, peace come
                                    again, I might sail with her up the broad and silvery Potomac to
                                    my home upon its bank. Alfrede, my heart has long been yours; it
                                    will always be yours."
                              Gently he raised her head until presently she lifted her glorious
                                    eyes wet with tears tremulously to his. Her arms tightened about
                                    his neck, and their lips met in a kiss that was sweeter even
                                    than those of which he had so long dreamed.
                              "I have loved mine enemy," she whispered, smiling
                                    through her tears. "May God preserve him for
                                    me!"
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXIV
                              A SWORD IS SHARPENED
                              DUSK was falling when a door of the Château de
                                    St. Louis opened, giving exit to a file of soldiers with
                                    Randolph in their midst.
                              "A bas l'incendaire! Death to
                                    the Bostonnais!" cried a venomous mob gathered in the
                                    street.
                              A stocky man in the uniform of a captain of the old Virginia
                                    regiment pushed his way determinedly forward. "Vat is
                                    it, Charles, in de name of Cott!" he cried
                                    hoarsely.
                              "Death, as I expected," answered Randolph, his
                                    face pale but calm, and his shoulders squared. "I am to
                                    be hanged at two on Friday."
                              By his tone and gestures the crowd caught the meaning of the words
                                    and raised a joyous shout.
                              "Silence, canaille!" the
                                    Dutchman hissed fiercely, and half drew his sword. Those nearest
                                    fell back, and Van Braam stepped closer to the prisoner.
                              "There was no real trial," Randolph continued.
                                    "The court was packed with Bigot's and the
                                    governor's creatures. I was not allowed to testify.
                                    'T is all a mere cloak for murdering me. Doubtless even
                                    the time of trial was thus chosen because Montcalm is at
                                    Montreal and cannot interfere."
                              "Mine Cott!" Van Braam cried, his face ashen with
                                    horror. "It cannot pe! It must not pe! Some vay must pe
                                    found to safe you!"
                              
                               "I fear there is no way," said Randolph
                                    composedly. "Good-by, old friend, my race is run. Come
                                    to see me if you can and carry my love and thanks to my friends.
                                    And should the Cross of St. George ever fly yonder"--he
                                    pointed to the citadel--"let Englishmen know of this. I
                                    flung it in the teeth of Vaudreuil and his minions that the
                                    great British nation never allows one of its citizens to be done
                                    to death without exacting vengeance!"
                              "Move on!" savagely commanded the sergeant in
                                    charge of the guard, and he struck Randolph a blow with the butt
                                    of his fusil.
                              "For shame, to treat a prisoner so!" cried Van
                                    Braam in French.
                              "Do not heed them; you can do no good," Randolph
                                    said hurriedly, fearing lest his friend might also get into
                                    trouble.
                              Van Braam swore some deep Dutch oaths and watched the prisoner
                                    marched off between the soldiers. Then he hurried through the
                                    gathering darkness to the La Vallière home with his gloomy news.
                                    It was a sad task for the old soldier, but it was a duty that
                                    had to be performed. Sorrowfully he plodded through the snow,
                                    and presently stood before her who waited. A sentence told all;
                                    and, as he stumbled back to his lodgings, he still saw a
                                    pitifully drawn face and heard a cry of anguish. Aye, and for
                                    years afterwards they came to him in his dreams.
                              The trial had taken place on a Tuesday. On Wednesday morning Van
                                    Braamn went with the old baron to the
                                    governor-general's to plead for a pardon, or at least
                                    for a reprieve, until the prisoner might collect evidence to
                                    prove his innocence. But Vaudreuil'was obdurate.
                              "We were too lenient in the case of Major Stobo,"
                                    said he, cutting short their plea. "An example must be
                                    made. Your friend has forfeited his life and must
                                    die."
                              
                              Next day Alfrede and the baron went on the same mission.
                                    "He saved me from the Iroquois," the girl
                                    pleaded tearfully. "He risked his life to see me to a
                                    place of safety. Oh, monseigneur, grant me what I ask, or it
                                    will break my heart."
                              "'T is useless," the governor answered
                                    coldly, unmoved either by her beauty or her tears. "The
                                    rascal must pay the price. Mon Dieu!
                                    mademoiselle, methinks it is not seemly in a daughter of France
                                    to plead thus for a dishonored enemy. And you, too, baron, might
                                    be engaged in a worthier cause."
                              The signeur's temper gave way utterly. In his youth he had
                                    borne the reputation of fearing neither man, devil, nor
                                    Iroquois, nor had he grown timid with age. For five minutes
                                    Pierre Franҫois Rigaud, Marquis de Vaudreuil, writhed under a
                                    torrent of execrations such as had never been heaped upon his
                                    head before. Exhausted at last, the baron turned to the girl and
                                    said gently:
                              "Come, Alfrede, we need not tarry. There are egotism,
                                    incompetence, and fraud here, but no justice nor pity! If the
                                    Marquis de Montcalm were in Quebec, he would listen to us; but
                                    ere he returns the murder will be consummated."
                              With their last hope gone, they left the palace, and presently were
                                    home once more. Alfrede sought her room, but she had not been in
                                    it long ere her prayers were disturbed by a servant's
                                    announcing that Captain Reparti was below and wished to speak
                                    with her.
                              "Tell him I will not see him," cried the girl
                                    bitterly, for his face was the last in the world she wished to
                                    look upon.
                              The servant withdrew, but soon returned. "He insists,
                                    mademoiselle," said she. "He says that it has
                                    something to do with Captain Randolph."
                              "Tell him I will come at once," cried the girl, a
                                    faint hope rising in her breast.
                              
                              After drying her tears and arranging her dress she descended the
                                    stairs to the drawing-room. The captain was standing near a
                                    window. Though he was dressed in a brilliant new uniform, he
                                    seemed more hateful to her than ever. He made an exaggerated
                                    bow, and surveyed her wolfishly.
                              "Mademoiselle grows more beautiful every day," he
                                    exclaimed. "Never were there such eyes, such a mouth,
                                    such a form, such a bearing! The goddess of love herself was but
                                    a peasant woman beside her."
                              "I did not come down to hear compliments," she
                                    said coldly. "I was told that you wished to speak with
                                    me about Captain Randolph. I hoped that like a gallant Frenchman
                                    you had discovered some way whereby his innocence might be
                                    proved and his life saved."
                              "He is not innocent!" Reparti snarled, unable to
                                    conceal his hatred. "He broke his parole most
                                    dishonorably. I am glad he is to hang."
                              "He is not guilty!" the girl cried hotly.
                                    "He is the soul of honor. You shall not speak thus of
                                    him. It is all a wicked plot. He is my good friend, who saved me
                                    fom the Iroquois."
                              "N'importe," sneered
                                    the captain brutally, "he is to hang."
                              "Is there no way--no way he can be saved?" she
                                    asked, her eyes filling with tears.
                              "There is one way," said he.
                              "Thank God! And what is that?"
                              "On one condition, mademoiselle," he said, taking
                                    a step nearer, "I will consent to save his
                                    life."
                              "What is that condition, monsieur?" she asked
                                    unsteadily, a chill fear gripping her as she saw his look.
                                    "If it is money that is needed, all my fortune shall be
                                    the reward of the man who saves him."
                              
                              Reparti shrugged his shoulders disdainfully. "Who cares
                                    for your fortune without its owner? Give me both, and he shall
                                    go free."
                              "Mother of God!"cried the grl faintly.
                              "I have much favor with the governor-general," he
                                    persisted. "Out of friendship he will grant my request.
                                    He dare not refuse it, for I control the Indians of the whole
                                    Northwest."
                              "But I do not love you," she said, temporizing.
                                    "Why is it, monsieur, that you have so followed and
                                    troubled me? My father--God rest his soul--never encouraged you.
                                    From the beginning, gently at first and then more emphatically
                                    as you became more persistent, I have repulsed you. I have not
                                    concealed the fact that I did not trust you, that I even loathed
                                    you. Why have you continued? Why have you persecuted
                                    me?"
                              As she spoke some of the old imperiousness with which in the past
                                    she had awed and dominated him returned. But though his eyes
                                    fell beneath her indignant glance, he was not to be turned
                                    aside.
                              "I love you, mademoiselle, I love you!" he cried
                                    fiercely.
                              "You do not know the meaning of love. One who really loves
                                    is willing to sacrifice!--to renounce. Your love is
                                    selfishness--passion only. My love is given to another, and
                                    surely you would not wish a wife who did not love
                                    you."
                              "Love will come," he said eagerly. "At
                                    least I shall possess you with all your beauty. Listen,
                                    mademoiselle; since first saw you five years ago at Fort Le Bœuf
                                    I have been on fire for you. I swore that I would have you, and
                                    Hertel Reparti always keeps his oaths. You have scorned me, but
                                    I still love you. By the Virgin and all the saints, you shall be
                                    mine!"
                              Carried away by passion, he came toward her; but she drew back in
                                    readiness for flight.
                              
                              "Do you believe," she cried scornfully,
                                    "that the prisoner would accept his life on such terms?
                                    I know he would rather be burned at the stake by your Ottawas
                                    than have me make a tithe of such a sacrifice. Nor will I make
                                    it--though I would gladly for his sake. I hate you! I loathe
                                    you! I defy you! It was you who plotted his ruin. Go on with
                                    your cruel plan, but remember there is a God in heaven who
                                    guards the innocent and punishes the guilty!"
                              "Then the Englishman shall die, though a thousand devils
                                    should try to prevent it!" he shrieked in a rage, and
                                    dashed toward the door.
                              "Stay yet a moment!" she called hastily, the
                                    dread alterntive rising in her brain as he was about to
                                    disappear. "Let me consider--what you have said.
                                    Perhaps--I spoke too hastily."
                              The courage that had thus far sustained her gave way. She burst
                                    into tears. Mollified, he returned.
                              "Think better of your answer," he said, somewhat
                                    more gently. "I admit that you owe the fellow
                                    something. By saving him the debt will be paid. As my wife you
                                    will be mistress of one of the largest fortunes in New France. I
                                    will be your slave, and Reparti has never been the slave of any
                                    woman. You shall have everything you ask. In my arms you will
                                    soon forget this passing fancy."
                              A bitter answer trembled on her tongue, but she finally said:
                                    "I must have time to think. Let me have until morning.
                                    Then you shall have your answer."
                              He would have said more in his behalf; but she stopped him, no
                                    longer able to endure. Reluctantly he at last took his
                                    departure. When he was gone, she sent for Van Braam and told him
                                    of Reparti's offer. The Dutchman burst into a rage when
                                    he understood, and swore she must not accept it. But shewould not promise either way,
                                    and the good man departed even more downcast than he had
                                    come.
                              Early next morning, making use of an order already obtained, he
                                    carried the news to Randolph. "You vas to pe free on
                                    vone condition," said he.
                              "What is that?" demanded Randolph, his face
                                    lighting up.
                              "Alas!" cried Van Braam, much distressed,
                                    "I vas go apout it awkward. I vas rouse false hopes. It
                                    vas dot Mademoiselle Alfrede pecomes Madame
                                    Repart."
                              Randolph sprang forward and seized Van Braam fiercely by the
                                    shoulder. "When is her answer to be given?" he
                                    demanded fiercely.
                              "Dis morning."
                              "Then in God's name go at once and stop
                                    it!" cried the prisoner. "I would rather be
                                    hung twenty times than let that ruffian have her!"
                              "So I dell her," said Van Braam.
                              "Not another word! Go!" shrieked Randolph, fairly
                                    forcing him to the door. "By God, man, you must stop
                                    it!"
                              Van Braam never made a quicker trip than he did from the prison to
                                    the La Vallière mansion. But at the door he met Reparti leaving,
                                    and there was a look of triumph on his dark face. He gave the
                                    Dutchman a salutation that was almost friendly.
                              "Surely you haf not yourself sarificed?" said Van
                                    Braam, when he saw Alfrede. "I haf just come from
                                    Captain Randolph. 'Dell her,' cried he,
                                    'dot I vould rather dwenty dimes pe hung dan she should
                                    marry him.'"
                              "It is too late," said Alfrede sadly, her face as
                                    white as the kerchief in her hand. "I could not bear
                                    the thought of his hanging on the scafold when a sacrifice on my
                                    part would save him. It is all arranged. The wedding is tobe this evening. Captain Reparti
                                    has gone to secure a reprieve. When the wedding is over and the
                                    Marquis de Montcalm is here to sign the paper, the prisoner is
                                    to be pardoned."
                              "Mine Cott!" said Van Braam.
                              "This world is not made for happiness," cried the
                                    girl bitterly. "It is a place of sin, sorrow, suffering
                                    and renunciation. But do not think that I intend to be his wife.
                                    I shall wed him and thus save my friend's life, but I
                                    will escape him if can. I will find refuge in a convent and take
                                    the veil. One can always do that."
                              "Dot marriage must nefer pe," cried Van Braam,
                                    his scttered wits gradually readjusting themselves.
                                    "Some oder vay must yet pe found. Listen, little
                                    friend. I lofe Charles like he vas mine son and you like you vas
                                    mine taughter. I owe much to him, and now I must some vay find
                                    to pay it. Mine Cott, I must! Den years ago I comes to Virginia,
                                    old, benniless, and vid a vound not yet healed. I know not vat
                                    vould haf pecome of me; put Charles dakes me to his blantation,
                                    keeps me, and sets me up as a fencing master, so dot I haf vonce
                                    more a blace in de vorld. He vas vone who vas alvays good teeds
                                    like dot toing. Efery vone lofes him. Mine Cott, I must safe you
                                    for him else he can nefer pe happy! He was not vone to forget. I
                                    know vot it vould pe to him to lose you. Old Van Braam knows. He
                                    too vas vone in lofe. She vas a sweet and bretty girl, much like
                                    you. Her name it was Vilhelmina. She lofed me too, mademoislle;
                                    you vould not pelieve it now; put vid her arms around my neck
                                    she said it. Her father was a vealthy merchant of Amsterdam; I
                                    was a boor soldier. She had another lofer, an old man vid many
                                    ships and many great shops. Him vas she forced to marry. In a
                                    month she vas mad, and soon she was tead, poor Vilhelmina! Aye,
                                    mademoiselle, and Jacob VanBraam,
                                    merry as he vas somedimes, has alvays dot canker gnawing at his
                                    heart. He was know down to de pitter tregs vot sorrow is. He
                                    swear dot if he can brevent, you shall not know it. Until you
                                    hear dot Van Braam is tead, do not cease to hope."
                              Alfrede was weeping with her head on the arm of her chair. Patting
                                    her dark locks with a clumsy hand, he tiptoed softly from the
                                    room. At the door he paused for a moment and looked back at her.
                                    There were tears in his eyes; but the look in his face was one
                                    of determination, not of weakness. Ere she knew it, he was
                                    gone.
                              Unknown to either, there had been a listener. Sympathetic Toinette
                                    had stood behind a half-opened door and had seen and heard all.
                                    By some quick intuition she had half read something that was in
                                    the Dutchman's mind. Wicked little eavesdropper and
                                    brave little heroine that she was, she was longing with all her
                                    soul that she might do something to help, when Lieutenant
                                    Lusignan entered.
                              "Oh," she cried to him, Alfrede has consented;
                                    but I think Captain Van Braam hopes in some way to prevent it.
                                    Henri, will you do something for me?"
                              "Anything in the world, Toinette."
                              "Then run after Captain Van Braam and help him all you
                                    can. Hasten!"
                              The lieutenant turned and started to obey.
                              "Wait just a moment," she called when he had
                                    reached the door.
                              "There may be danger," she said, when he had come
                                    back to her.
                              "N'importe, I am a soldier. I
                                    love you. I will go where you tell me."
                              A look that he had never seen before but that he had long wished to
                                    see came into her eyes. "Henri," she said
                                    gently, drawing closer to him, "there is something
                                          youhave often begged me for
                                    that you may take before you go"
                              " Presently she pushed him away. "No more now,
                                    dear, or you will lose him," she protested.
                              Nevertheless, she gave him a final kiss, then led him to the door
                                    and closed it after him. Then she ran into the drawing-room and
                                    threw her arms around Alfrede.
                              "Take heart, dearest, take heart!" she cried,
                                    kissing her. "I know that Captain Van Braam is going to
                                    do some brave grand thing that will save you both! And I have
                                    sent my Henri to help him."
                              Meanwhile Lusignan had sped down the street after Van Braam, with
                                    whom he presently came up.
                              "MademoiselleToinette says that I am to go with
                                    you," he said.
                              Van Braam glanced keenly at him from under shaggy brows. A look of
                                    intelligence passed between them. "You are a brave man,
                                    lieutenant; I shall be glad to have you with me," said
                                    the captain in French.
                              They went first to Van Braam's lodgings. There the captain
                                    wrote a long letter, which he addressed and sealed.
                              "Do you think you could find a messenger who would carry
                                    this to the Marquis de Montcalm at Montreal?" he asked
                                    the lieutenant. "Heme is money to pay. Do not spare
                                    expense and insist upon the utmost haste."
                              The Frenchman took the letter and went out. When he returned half
                                    an hour later, he found Van Braam seated near the window engaged
                                    in rubbing the edge and point of his sword with a little piece
                                    of stone.
                              "I succeeded," said the lieutenant.
                              "Good!"said Van Braam. "Sit down. I
                                    shall be ready presently."
                              Carefully, phlegmatically he continued to rub the littlestone back and forth along the shining
                                    blade. At last he handed the weapon to the lieutenant, who
                                    tested it with his thumb.
                              "C'est assez!" said
                                    the officer admiringly. "It would do magnificently for
                                    a razor."
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXV
                              A FRIEND IN NEED
                              ON the bank of the little river St. Charles, and
                                    close beside the prison and La Friponne of evil fame, rose the
                                    palace of the intendant, a building larger and in interior
                                    decorations more magnificent than the old Château de St. Louis
                                    itself. Within was a spacious dining-room containing a rare
                                    display of plate and a long table, laid, as was the
                                    intendant's custom, with twenty covers, and loaded down
                                    with an abundance of rich viands and a still greater abundance
                                    of old wines, eau-de-vie, and other drinks.
                                    Around the table were gathered a score of men of diverse
                                    appearance, dress, and station, for knavery makes strange
                                    companions. At the head sat Bigot himself, easy, alert,
                                    complacent, smiling, and elegantly dressed, with a profusion of
                                    laces and jewels. On his left hand was Monsieur Cadet, the
                                    commissary, likewise richly dressed, but betraying by his
                                    manners the lowness of his origin; on his right hand was Captain
                                    Reparti, resplendent in his new uniform, with a look of mingled
                                    satisfaction, triumph, and anticipation on his dark face. Beyond
                                    these two were Monsieur Deschenaux, he of the warty nose, and
                                    little Major Hugues Péan, husband by courtesy of the reigning
                                    sultana. Still further down were eight or ten officers of French
                                    regulars and of the colonial troupe de la
                                          marine, who were carrying on an animated conversation
                                    with some rough swarthy bushrangers in the picturesque costume
                                    usually affected by coureurs-de-bois.
                              
                              When the last of his guests had ceased to eat, the intendant rose
                                    to his feet, shook out his dainty perfumed kerchief, replaced
                                    it, looked reflectively down the table, and then raised a glass
                                    of wine in his jeweled hand. Having thus gained the attention of
                                    all present, he said with an inscrutable smile:
                              "My good friends, I have today an interesting announcement
                                    to make. It is an announcement that will bring both joy and
                                    sadness--joy, because it has to do with the happiness of a
                                    friend; sadness, because henceforth, save on occasions the most
                                    extraordinary, we shall be deprived of the light of that
                                    friend's presence here with us. But why mourn his
                                    absence when we can console ourselves with the thought that he
                                    is enjoying a bridegroom's felicity? Gentlemen of
                                    France, both New and Old, I ask you to drink to the domestic
                                    happiness of Captain Hertel Reparti, who is this evening to
                                    celebrate his nuptials with that exquisite flower of womanhood,
                                    Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre."
                              The toast was drunk amid shouts, and then the company drew round
                                    the prospective bridegroom to express their felicitations.
                              "Ma foi!" exclaimed Cadet,
                                    "so you have won her at last, comrade! Eh
                                          bien, she is worth waiting for. She is the sweetest
                                    bud in all New France and I would give sixty thousand livres to
                                    stand in your shoes if only for a day."
                              "But what, Hertel, will you do with Sàki and your other
                                    Naiads of the wilderness?" demanded a young daredevil
                                    who wome the dress of a coureur-de-bois,
                                    though his language showed that he had not always followed that
                                    wild life. "Are we to hope that you will bequeath them
                                    to us, your less fortunate comrades?"
                              Reparti beamed beneath the torrent of congratulations and of
                                    raillery. "Parbleu, I am a happy
                                    man!" he cried."I have won what all wish to possess. But, Baptiste,
                                    though I love my friends, you ask too much. Because a man is
                                    wedded to the most adorable of women, is it that he should be
                                    deprived of all comfort in the wigwam when he takes the
                                    wilderness trail?"
                              "Bravo!" exclaimed Bigot, clapping his hands
                                    approvingly. "Messieurs, our friend is in the most
                                    beatific state it is possible for sinful man to attain. He is in
                                    love--but not too much. He is a philosopher. He is--but who in
                                    the name of the devil have we here?"
                              As he spoke there was a noise in the hall without; and, preceded by
                                    a servant, two newcomers entered the room. One was Lieutenant
                                    Lusignan; the other, Captain Van Braam, a stern look of
                                    determination on his broad face.
                              "Aho, 't is the Dutchman!" cried
                                    Reparti, in a sneering voice full of triumph.
                                    "Doubtless he comes to bear me his congratulations.
                                    'T is considerate; methought he loved the girl
                                    himself."
                              A flush overspread Van Braam's face, but he drew nearer
                                    the speaker and said in a strong, clear voice: "I do
                                    love her. I love her as though she were my daughter. I have come
                                    to tell these gentlemen what a crime it is that you should
                                    compel her to marry you when her heart is bestowed
                                    elsewhere."
                              "Pardieu, her heart is mine!"
                                    the Frenchman cried. "Who told you that?"
                              "Mademoiselle herself," said Van Braam
                                    quietly.
                              Reparti's face grew livid. "Never go near her
                                    again, Dutch pig, or I will kill you!" he roared.
                              "That is the second time monsieur has called me a
                                    pig," said Van Braam coolly, coming still closer.
                                    "He must think that I am in fear of him. To prove to
                                    him and all here present that he is mistaken, I strike him
                                    so!"
                              Suiting the action to the word, he gave Repardi a hardblow in the mouth with his closed hand,
                                    and then, quickly catching up a glass of wine, flung vessel and
                                    all full in the Frenchman's face.
                              "Thunder of God!" sputtered Reparti, rubbing his
                                    eye to clear it of the wine, "you shall die for
                                    this!"
                              Van Braam bowed mockingly. "Will monsieur fight the Dutch
                                    boar now?"
                              "Captain Reparti can do no less after such an
                                    insult," said Lusignan,who saw in a fIash what his
                                    friend was working for. At the same instant he pinched meaningly
                                    the arm of a French officer who stood next him.
                              "Certainly," echoed the officer, "he
                                    must fight."
                              "Yes, let them settle the affair at once, by all
                                    means," exclaimed others.
                              For a moment Bigot was half minded to protest. Knowing how the
                                    marriage had been arranged, he saw at glance that this was Van
                                    Braam's countermove. But, exquisite gentleman though he
                                    was, Bigot loved to watch the flash of swords; so, having no
                                    doubt as to the outcome of a conflict, he merely flicked a spot
                                    of dust off his velvet sleeve and kept silent.
                              Meanwhile Van Braam stood waiting for the Frenchman's
                                    answer. His face was impassive, but Lusignan noticed that his
                                    hand stole to the hilt of his sword. For in the old
                                    soldier's brain there was a stern resolve. In case
                                    Reparti refused to fight, there would be a sudden flash of
                                    steel, a quick thrust--and Alfrede would be free.
                              But, whatever else he was, Reparti was no coward. He was a man
                                    easily moved to fits of insane rage in which he lost sight of
                                    everything save the singe desire to slay the enemy who had
                                    roused him. It was upon this characteristic that Van Braam had
                                    shrewdly counted when he laid his plan, and he had not
                                    miscaculted. The Frenchman had no thought of evading the
                                    encounter. As soon as he couldfind
                                    utterance from the wine that strangled him, he roared out that
                                    the Dutchman should be food for dogs in five minutes.
                              Bigot at once took it upon himself to arrange the affair.
                                    "Who will be your second?" he asked Van
                                    Braam.
                              "I will serve in that capacity, if he will accept
                                    me," claimed Lusignan eagerly.
                              "Thank you, my friend," said Van Braam;
                                    "I shall not forget your kindness."
                              "You will not have time in which to do so,"
                                    sneered Reparti. "Deschenaux, will you act for
                                    me?"
                              Deschenaux replied in the affirmative, and the two seconds thus
                                    chosen drew apart to arrange the details.
                              " We shall have it in the garden," called Bigot
                                    after them. Mon Dieu! This is no pin-pricking
                                    contest. Blood will low in rivulets, and I do not want it on my
                                    floors."
                              He called a servant and instructed him to have a plot of snow
                                    trampled down hard and covered with ashes in order to improve
                                    the footing. Soon after these directions were given, the seconds
                                    returned and announced that they had agreed upon preliminaries.
                                    The confict was to be with swords, each man to fight in his
                                    shirt-sleeves, and the combat to be à
                                          l'outrance, that is, until one man was dead
                                    or disabled.
                              "Very well," said Bigot, "now to the
                                    garden. But first the principals may as well prepare themselves
                                    where it is warm and comfortable. Lieutenant Lusignan, take your
                                    champion into another room. Hertel, shall I send for a
                                    priest?"
                              "Bah, no!" exclaimed Reparti.
                                    "'T is true I have not confessed and am in
                                    deadly sin, but I have no thought of allowing myself to be
                                    killed."
                              In the room which Bigot indicated, Van Braam, with
                                    Lusignan's solicitous aid, removed his coat and
                                          waistcoat,buckled tighter
                                    his belt, and otherwise arranged his clothes so that his
                                    movements might be as free as possible. When all these things
                                    were done, he plumped down upon his knees; and for a
                                    minute's time Lusignan heard him utter in reverent tone
                                    a short petition in a language which the lieutenant at least did
                                    not understand.
                              "May the Virgin and the Saints aid you!" said the
                                    lieutenant,when Van Braam had risen. "You are a brave
                                    and good man."
                              "I owe much to you for your assitance," said Van
                                    Braam gratefully. "I trust that it will not lead you
                                    into difficulties. All that you need do is to see that there is
                                    no interference. If God so wills it, I will win; if not--I am
                                    but an old man. As your countrymen say, voilà
                                          tout!"
                              "I think the conflict will be a fair one," said
                                    the lieutenant. "I am rejoiced that the officers from
                                    France are here. They are my friends and will countenance no
                                    foul play."
                              In silence they shook hands, and then returned to the dining-hall,
                                    where they found the other principal and his second waiting. The
                                    whole party left the palace and entered the garden.
                              "Parbleu! 't is a somewhat
                                    harsh preliminary to a wedding," said Bigot to some of
                                    the gentlemen, as they set foot in the snow. "But I
                                    expect the bridegroom to escape scathless, else I would not
                                    permit the conflict. Reparti is an unchained devil. This
                                    Dutchman will not last a moment."
                              When the principals faced each other on the spot which the servants
                                    had prepared, it certainly looked as if the intendant's
                                    prophecy would prove true. Had such a gladiator as the Frenchman
                                    stood forth upon the sands of the Amphitheater in olden days,
                                    the Roman populace to a man would blithely have bet their
                                    sesterces upon him. Agiant in
                                    size, with craggy neck, thick arms, and a mighty chest, he was
                                    yet agile and free in motion as a panther. He was at the age
                                    when the vital forces attain their maximum, and decay has not
                                    yet begun its deadly work. He had been in many conflicts, and
                                    never yet had met an equal. His opponent was scarcely above the
                                    middle size, and was undeniably an old man. His hair was thin
                                    and gray; his step lacked that elasticity that belongs to youth
                                    only. His strength lay chiefly in things not visible to the eye.
                                    Since early youth he had been a soldier; he had fought at
                                    Dettingen, Fontenoy, Laffeldt, Cartagena, and many another of
                                    the great battles and sieges of that warlike century. Stern
                                    necessity had made him cool and collected in action and, as so
                                    much hinged upon the issue, he would be unusually so upon this
                                    occasion. He had in him that "tincture of
                                    Calvinism" than which there is nothing better tfe a
                                    battle line; and finally, and not least of all, he knew that he
                                    was clad in the strong armor of a righteous cause.
                              When all was in readiness, the old soldier glanced for a moment
                                    across the stretch of snow at the prison, a hundred yards away.
                                    One of those little windows, he knew, belonged to
                                    Randolph's cell.
                              "Vatefer may pe de oudcome," he said softly to
                                    himself, "I vish dot Charles could pe looking. He vould
                                    at least know dot old Van Braam has tone his pest."
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXVI
                              THE WATCHER AT THE WINDOW
                              AFTER Van Braam left him, Randolph paced up and
                                    down in his cell, now in silence and now breaking forth in
                                    bitter curses against the cruel fate that held him helpless in
                                    such a crisis. Conjectures were wholly useless; but, as the
                                    hours dragged slowly by, he could think of nothing save
                                    Alfrede's probable decision. It was with a vast sense
                                    of relief that toward noon he heard the door of his cell
                                    unlocked and saw the face of his keeper.
                              "M'sieu', a letter for
                                    you."
                              Feverishly the prisoner snatched the bit of paper and tore it open.
                                    It read as follows:
                              
                              "Captain Reparti pays his respects to Captain Randolph and
                                    begs to inform him that, since he is to be happily wedded this
                                    evening to a lady to whom Captain Randolph was once so fortunate
                                    as to render a service, Captain Reparti has interested himself
                                    in the prisoner's behalf, and has secured from pardon.
                                    The reprieve goes to the jailer by the same messenger as this
                                    note. Captain Reparti hopes that he may receive Captain
                                    Randolph's felicitations."
                              
                              The prisoner tore the message to bits and threw them savagely from
                                    him. Had the hated reprieve been in his hands, he would have
                                    served it likewise. The worst had come. He was to live; but what
                                    was life if all that made life worth while was to be snatched
                                    from him--if neveragain he was to
                                    have her clinging arms about his neck, to look into her dark
                                    eyes, to feel her soft lips pressed against his own! A dull
                                    vista of years void of hope and sympathy and love stretched out
                                    before him. And Alfrede? What of her? Would not hers be the
                                    harder lot? Uniess she should come to--but, God! that would be
                                    to him the bitterest pang of all!
                              Was he really Charles Randolph, who for five fevered years had
                                    dreamed a single dream with but a single ending? Was the dream
                                    really to be shattered like some fragile vase struck by a vandal
                                    hand? Yes, he was that Randolph; and he had felt sure that the
                                    fate which had favored him so long would not desert him at the
                                    end. Yet in a few hours the end would come, and he could do
                                    nothing! If he could only fight, even though he fell at last, it
                                    would not be so hard. But resistless, remorseless as the car of
                                    Juggernaut, the catastrophe was coming; and bolts and bars and
                                    walls of stone held him helpless. Hope there was none. Montcalm
                                    was in Montreal; Alfrede had consented. Only a miracle from
                                    heaven could prevent the marriage, and the age of miracles was
                                    past. Why was the will of man so feeble and pitiful a thing
                                    before the awful frown of fate? His eyes grew bloodshot; he
                                    cursed a world in which such wrongs could happen.
                              With brain on fire, he threw himself upon his little cot and
                                    wrestled with the bitterest sorrow of his life. But he found no
                                    relief thus. The cell seemed growing smaller. He felt that he
                                    would suffocate. He must have air and the light of day.
                                    Springing to his feet, he placed the chair beneath the little
                                    window, climbed upon it, and looked out.
                              Through the iron bars, across a hundred yards of snow, loomed the
                                    walls of the intendant's palace. He clenched his fists
                                    convulsively as be gazed at the building in which he knew his
                                    enemies had planned his destruction; butcalmly, coldly, the gray walls leered
                                    back at him, and it was as if he saw their owner's
                                    exultant sneer. Save a little flock of snowbirds uttering
                                    beneath a tree, not a living thing was in sight. Dull leaden
                                    clouds seemed pressing down upon the world, and the bleak bare
                                    limbs of the trees waved drunkenly before a chill wind that
                                    whistled lugubriously about the walls of the prison.
                              Presently he sw a number of servants come out of a doorway with
                                    pails in their hands. Dully he watched them trample down a plot
                                    of snow, and then empty the pails, which seemed to contain
                                    ashes, over it. Hardly was this done when another door opened,
                                    and a score of gentlemen issued from it and made their way to
                                    the spot where the servants had been working. Who were they? he
                                    wondered idly. At first he recognized only the short figure of
                                    Bigot; but soon the group reached the bit of ash-covered snow,
                                    and then all but two, who had been screened from sight by the
                                    others, fell back a little. The two were bareheaded and in their
                                    shirt-sleeves, and each held a naked sword. With a start that
                                    almost unhinged his understanding, the prisoner realized that
                                    one was Captain Reparti, the other Captain Van Braam.
                              In a flash he understood all. Jacob Van Braam, the old soldier he
                                    had found sick and penniless in Alexandria and had rescued from
                                    death or the hopeless career of a redemptioner, was about to
                                    stake his life in an attempt to secure his friend's
                                    happiness. A wave of hope swept over the prisoner; a flood of
                                    grateful tears gushed into his eyes. But there was little time
                                    for thought. Two other men, likewise with drawn weapons, took
                                    their stations not far from the principals; the intendant
                                    stepped out from the group; the combatants stood at salute; and
                                    then Randolph knew, though he did not hear the words, that Bigot
                                    said:
                              
                                    Allez, messieurs!
                              
                              
                              Instantly the principals crossed swords. With a roar that even
                                    Randolph heard, Reparti rushed upon his antagonist, thinking to
                                    beat down his guard and end the conflict in an instant. So fiery
                                    was his onset that to the atcher at the window it seemed that
                                    his antagonist must go down before it. The Dutchman did, indeed,
                                    give back somewhat; but, to Randolph's joy, he parried
                                    all attacks witout seemingly sustaining any injury, and retorted
                                    with thrusts so vigorous that Reparti presently appeared to give
                                    over his attempt to overwhelm him and to settle down to a
                                    steadier and not too close conflict. Soon it became apparent
                                    that the Frenchman, foiled in his first expectation, was
                                    resolved to make the fight a test of endurance.
                                    Randolph's heart sank, for how, thought he, could an
                                    old man hope to endure in such a contest with one of
                                    Reparti's giant strength? He imagined that already Van
                                    Braam's movements were slower and less vigorus.
                                    Evidently the Dutchman realized his weakness, for he took the
                                    offensive. One by one Randolph saw him try the tricks they had
                                    so often rehearsed together in the old days at Eastover. One by
                                    one they were foiled by Reparti's vigilance and
                                    strength of wrist and arm.
                              Minute after minute steel clashed against steel. The crowd, which
                                    had at first jeered noisily, now watched the conflict in tense
                                    silene. Conscious that he was disappointing his friends, the
                                    Frenchman again sprang forward and pressed his antagonist. The
                                    old man rallied his waning forces, and once more beat him back.
                                    Again both combatants fenced cautiously. Presently Van Braam
                                    began undeniably to tire. A third onslaught by Reparti was not
                                    in vain; the prisoner could see a slowly expanding spot of red
                                    upon Van Braam's white shirt. Evidently the combat was
                                    to have but one ending. A few more minutes of play, and then,
                                    his strength exhausted, the old soldier mustsuccumb. Randolph's hopes,
                                    which had risen high, now sank again.
                              "Oh, God!" he cried wildly, "have I not
                                    enough sorrow, without being obliged to see my truest friend cut
                                    to pieces before my eyes? If I, with my strength, could only
                                    stand in his place! But I am helpless! helpless!"
                              The end came even sooner than he expeted. Suddenly, at a moment
                                    when the conflict was not close, Van Braam took as long a step
                                    forward with his right foot as it was possible for him to do,
                                    threw his body forward and downward until it rested on his
                                    thigh, and, with head dropped low, made a desperate lunge at his
                                    adversary. "My God!" thought Randolph,
                                    "'t is La Tousche's estocade de pied ferme!" He knew that the
                                          dénouement was come, for this développement is of so exaggerated a
                                    character that a smart recovery, especially where the footing is
                                    so insecure as was now the case, is impossible, and, if the
                                    thrust fails, the person attempting it is at his
                                    enemy's mercy. But, thank God! it had not failed.
                                    Caught off his guard for once, Reparti made a desperate attempt
                                    to parry. His blade forced Van Braam's weapon to one
                                    side, but not enough. The keen point entered his right breast.
                                    His sword fell from his nerveless grasp; and, staggering
                                    backward, his great body dropped into the snow.
                              For a moment the prisoner was stupefied by so unexpected a finale.
                                    Then a, shout burst from his lips that echoed through the prison
                                    and carried even to the group in the garden. Tearing his
                                    handkerchief from his pocket, he waved it wildly through the
                                    bars of his little window.
                              The old soldier heard the shout. He turned toward the prison and
                                    saw the bit of fluttering white. Drawing himself erect, he gave
                                    with the utmost precision a military salute.
                              
                              Meanwhile all except the victor had crowded round the prostrate
                                    Frenchman. Presently Lusignan drew apart from the rest and
                                    approached his principal.
                              "He is not dead," said the lieutenant;
                                    "but there will be no bridegroom tonight nor for some
                                    weeks at least. Parbleu! that lunge was
                                    magnificent!"
                              "I was at the end of my resources," said Van
                                    Braam, who was still breathing heavily, but was none the worse
                                    for the encounter save for a slight gash in his shoulder.
                                    "I could think of nothing else but that one botte, so I tried it. If it had failed, it
                                    would be I who is lying there. It did not go where I aimed, but
                                    it was a good stroke--for an old man. For the time being
                                    mademoiselle is safe."
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXVII
                              A BASKET OF WINE
                              FOUR days after the duel, the Marquis de Montcalm
                                    at Montreal received Van Braam's letter. After an
                                    interview with the Chevalier de Lévis he entered a carriole and, with no other companion than the
                                    driver, started for Quebec. Now along the snow-covered road, now
                                    down the frozen river, they glided with marvelous swiftness.
                                    Around them, lighted by the oblique rays of the pale winter sun,
                                    spread an illimitable white mantle from which the dry wind swept
                                    into their faces clouds of icy particles that stung like
                                    needles. The mournful silence was broken only by the tinkling
                                    bells on the horses and at rare intervals by the yelping of some
                                    cur as the cariole passed the thatched cabin
                                    of a habitant. As the sun sank beneath the
                                    horizon, the stars lighted their lamps and shone in myriads in
                                    the immaculate azure, and in the north appeared the shifting
                                    lights of the aurora borealis. Clumps of fir and larch trees,
                                    with their snow-laden branches, seemed in the obscurity, like
                                    hovering phantoms, and only at rare intervals did some little
                                    light scintillating in the distance give proof that the region
                                    was not a solitude. It was lonely jouney; and often did the
                                    soldier, as he looked upon this hyperborean nature from beneath
                                    his robes of fur, think of the wastes of snow and wintry sea
                                    that stretched between him and sunny Candiac, the lodestar of
                                    all his hopes and dreams. Three days of almost continuous travel
                                    brought him to Quebec. At once he visited Alfrede and learned
                                    from herand from the baron the
                                    story of the trial and of the events that followed. Though he
                                    rejoiced that he had arrived in time, his southern blood took
                                    fire at what he heard. His resolution was soon taken. Returning
                                    to his qularters, he sent messengers to Vaudreuil and Bigot
                                    asking for an immediate interview with them at the Château de
                                    St. Louis.
                              "Have you the pardon ready for my signature?" he
                                    asked blandly of the governor, when he was in their
                                    presence.
                              Vaudreuil stirred uneasily in his chair, and Bigot smiled cynically
                                    at the ceiling. To what pardon do you refer?" the
                                    governor asked, striving to simulate surprise.
                              "To that of the English prisoner, Captain Randolph, of
                                    course."
                              'I have no pardon for Captain Randolph," snarled
                                    the governor. "He has been convicted and must suffer
                                    the penalty for his treachery."
                              "But you gave him a reprieve," suggested the
                                    soldier, and promised a pardon."
                              "I have never thought of pardoning him," declared
                                    the governor mendaciously.
                              "It is evident that you have been misinformed,"
                                    said Bigot. "The Marquis de Vaudreuil has always spoken
                                    of hanging the prisoner, and I--I think he should be hanged.
                              Montcalm looked at both men keenly.
                                    "Messieurs,"he said, with curling lip,
                                    "you may as well drop the mask. I have proof conclusive
                                    that both of you have been endeavoring to force Mademoiselle de
                                    Saint-Pierre to wed Captain Reparti, and that the plan was only
                                    frustrated by the courage and skill of Captain Van Braam. I even
                                    suspect that one, if not both, of you was concerned in
                                    manufacturing evidence against this Englishman, and that he is
                                    entirely innocent."
                              
                              Bigot bit his lip but did not cease to smie. As for the governor,
                                    he fairly foamed with rage. "Sangdieu!" he cried, "these are
                                    monstrous charges to make against the king's highest
                                    officers in these colonies."
                              "That I should make them proves that I am in
                                    earnest," said the general sternly, his hand upon the
                                    hilt of his sword. "Messieurs, this thing must stop. I,
                                    Montcalm, will not allow it. Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre is the
                                    daughter of a dead friend who once saved my life in battle. She
                                    is my ward; I am responsible for her happiness. Nor will I allow
                                    the execution of this Englishman. I believe him innocent. You
                                    have no legal power to execute him until his sentence has been
                                    confirmed by the king."
                              "I am your superior," shrieked the governor.
                                    "I will do as I please."
                              Montcalm strode forward with a look in his keen eyes that chilled
                                    them. "You are the superior," he said, in an
                                    icy voice; "but I command the troops from France. Whom,
                                    think you, would they obey, in case of a conflict between us?
                                    You, sitting safely at home, planning scalping parties against
                                    defenseless women and children, or the victor of Chouaguen, of
                                    William Henry, of Carillon? Let there be peace between us for
                                    the sake of next year's campaign, but this marriage
                                    must be thought of no longer. The prisoner's case must
                                    be submitted to the king. If you persevere in either matter, I
                                    swear by God and the Saints that I will seize the government and
                                    defend the colony as dictator, and that neither of you shall
                                    escape alive. That is my ultimatum."
                              So saying, the soldier turned contemptuously upon his heel and
                                    departed. Vaudreuil and Bigot presently separated, each swearing
                                    shrilly that Montcalm's threat should be disregarded,
                                    but neither believing the other's asseverations nor his
                                    own.
                              
                              Montcalm went at once to see Alfrede. To her he told the story of
                                    the interview.
                              "While I live," said he, before he went,
                                    "you shall be safe. Captain Randolph will be in little
                                    danger until we can hear from France. Perhaps by that time the
                                    plot against him will be exposed, or the war will have ended.
                                    Vaudreuil and Bigot know that I am the stronger and that I keep
                                    my word."
                              These assurances greatly cheered the girl, yet she was filled with
                                    apprehensions. Until far into the night she revolved the matter
                                    in her mind. For herself she felt little fear, but she saw that
                                    her lover was still in danger. The case against him seemed
                                    clear, and the influence of Vaudreuil and Bigot, which was
                                    powerful at Versailles, would doubtless be exerted to the full
                                    against him. The king would confirm the sentence. And when the
                                    news that he had done so should reach Quebec, even Montcalm
                                    could not stay the execution. But the submission would take
                                    time, and time gives opportunity for many things. She would not
                                    be idle. All that a great love could accomplish should he done.
                                    Reflecting thus, she conceived an idea and made a resolve. After
                                    kneeling for some time beside her bed whispering a prayer to
                                    heaven for guidance, she felt so much comforted that presently
                                    she fell asleep.
                              Next morning she told Toinette what Montcalm had said. With her
                                    usual quickness, that young person at once saw the danger to
                                    which Randolph was still exposed. "If the king confirms
                                    the sentence, your lover must still die," she said.
                              Alfrede put her arms round Toinette, and whispered something in her
                                    ear. Toinette instantly looked at her with wide-open eyes that
                                    sparkled with admiration.
                              "How romantic that will be!" she cried.
                                    "I will help you!"
                              
                              Alfrede explained in detail what she had in mind. Then they sought
                                    an interview with the baron.
                              "Ma foi!" he cried, holding up
                                    his hands in pretended horror, "but that is a
                                    conspiracy!"
                              "Eh, bien, are we not pretty enough to
                                    play the part?" demanded Toinette lightly.
                              "But it would mean the dungeon for all of us, if we should
                                    be discovered," he objected.
                              "We do not wish you to join in it," Alfrede
                                    hastened to explain. "We only want you to shut your
                                    yes."
                              "Mon Dieu! Mademoiselle, do you doubt my
                                    courage?" he demanded, with some asperity.
                              "Tut, tut, papa!" chided Toinette, kissing him.
                                    "It is only that it would be a useless risk. Should I
                                    be imprisoned, I shall make love to the jailer, and I know he
                                    will let me out. You they might really punish. Of course, you
                                    will let us?" And again she kissed him.
                              Who could resist such pleaders? Certinly not the baron.
                                    "It is a grave risk for us all," he said
                                    finally. "I ought not to permit it, but I will not
                                    hinder you. St. Anne, you are brave demoiselles! How do you--but
                                    I must not know. Do what you will, but do not let me know what
                                    you a doing."
                              In high feather at this first success, they proceeded to the next
                                    step. Alfrede summoned her old bonne, Jeanne,
                                    and told her that she wished an interview with her and Sergeant
                                    Gerard. The same evening these two, so long associated with the
                                    fortunes of the family of Saint-Pierre, appeared. Alfrede closed
                                    the door carefully, and in a low voice told them her
                                    desires.
                              The old sergeant listened with many shrugs of his shoulders and
                                    many shakings of his head.
                              "C'est impossible!" he
                                    said decisively, when she had finished. "Think of the
                                    danger!"
                              
                              "I know I am asking too much, Gerard," said the
                                    girl miserably. "But I must have help, and I thought
                                    first of you. If we succeed, you shall have enough money to
                                    establish the little shop at Nantes that you so often talk
                                    about; if we fail, I will take the punishment."
                              "A million francs alone would not tempt me," the
                                    soldier exclaimed earnestly. "But why, little one, do
                                    you wish to save this Englishman"
                              "Do you remember when we were captured by the Iroquois,
                                    Gerard? Who was it saved me? Did you not think it a brave and
                                    gallant deed? Aye, surely, I have heard you say so many times.
                                    Now that he is at the mercy of cruel and treacherous enemies,
                                    shall we let him perish? Besides," she continued,
                                    sobbing, "I love him, Gerard, I love him!"
                              There were tears in Jeanne's eyes. Her arms went round
                                    Alfrede.
                              "Gerard," she said, "this is our only
                                    child. Have we not both loved her? What does it matter what
                                    becomes of us, for we are old?"
                              A tender look came into the old soldier's grizzled face.
                                    "Say no more," he said. "I will
                                    undertake it. And be sure that old Gerard will do his
                                    best."
                              The girl kissed Jeanne; then she kissed Gerard. "I love
                                    you both dearly, dearly," she said, through tears.
                                    "I feel so selfish in asking it; but, oh, I so need
                                    help!"
                              "Have you any plan?" asked Gerard presently.
                              "One came to me last night. I have thought it all out, but
                                    one point."
                              She explained what she meant to do. Both listened intently. As she
                                    proceeded, the look of doubt on Gerard's face gradually
                                    gave way and was replaced by one of confidence.
                              "Mon Dieu!" cried he, when she
                                    had finished. "Youare a
                                    general. You would have vanquished Maréchal Saxe
                                    himself."
                              "No," said Alfrede, "I am only a poor
                                    weak girl with one great task to perform. I know I must not
                                    fail. Do you think we can find a way to slip the weapons
                                    in?"
                              "Sans doute," said Gerard,
                                    "though it will be difficult."
                              An hour later, after much further planning, Gerard departed,
                                    carrying with him a heavy purse of gold. Next morning Jeanne and
                                    the two girls rode out to the château on the seigniory. And at
                                    midnight the three busied themselves for a long time in a little
                                    garret which was entered by a secret door. In the morning
                                    Alfrede and Toinette returned to town, but Jeanne remained in
                                    the château.
                              Then followed a long period of waiting. February, March, April,
                                    dragged slowly away. The snow dissolved into great pools of
                                    slush; the frost-bound earth lay oozy and black on the southern
                                    slopes; the ice in the river broke up with thunderous reports
                                    like those of artillery; from the southward long files of
                                    clamorous wildfowl streamed to their summer homes in the silent
                                    North. Vessels dropped down the river with dispatches for
                                    France, and hardly were they gone ere others, bearing meager
                                    supplies for the hard-pressed colony, anchored in the harbor.
                                    "It is not what we asked for," said Montcalm
                                    to Bougainville, who had been his messenger to Versailles;
                                    "but a little is welcome to those who have
                                    nothing."
                              At last the land lay free from ice. The buds swelled and burst; the
                                    leaves came forth; and in its covert blossomed the Canadian
                                    violet. With jocund air the landscape turned from the cold
                                    tyranny of winter to receive kisses from the balmy lips of
                                    spring and welcome its gifts of sunshine and shower. Late as
                                    comes the summer at Quebec, it tones forits long delay by appearing in its
                                    loveliest and most enticing form.
                              During all these months Randolph remained in prison. But the rigor
                                    of his confinement was relaxed somewhat, and his friends were
                                    allowed to visit him freely. Numbers came, for, besides Van
                                    Braam, the La Vallières, and Alfrede, there were many persons
                                    who, felt a kindly interest in the young Virginian and believed
                                    him innocent. For a reason that Randolph did not then
                                    understand, the number of such visitors during the first week in
                                    May was unusually great; some came who had never done so before.
                                    Among the many were the baron, Toinette, and Alfrede. Just as
                                    they were taking their departure, and when the baron was already
                                    outside, Alfrede took from underneath her cloak a letter and
                                    slipped it into his hand.
                              "I want you to read it very carefully," she
                                    whispered.
                              "You may be sure I will do that," he said, taking
                                    her hand as well as what she held out to him, while Toinette
                                    considerately turned her back.
                              When the girls were gone, he read the letter and found it even more
                                    interesting than he had anticipated, for it informed him that a
                                    plan was afoot to rescue him and named the night of the
                                    fifteenth, one week away, for the attempt.
                              "My brave Alfrede! my brave Alfrede!" he said
                                    over and over again, when he had finished.
                              The next seven days were long ones to the Virginian. Books palled
                                    upon him. He could not keep his mind off the coming venture. The
                                    letter contained no hint of how the implements he was to use in
                                    the escape were to be brought to him. Would his friends manage
                                    to evade the vigilance of the guards? was the anxious question
                                    that ran incessantly through his brain. His only relief was in
                                    exercise, of which he each day took as much as the narrow limits of his cell permitted,
                                    for he was determined not to allow his physical energies to be
                                    impaired by his imprisonment. The letter he memorized, then
                                    burned.
                              The seventh day came at last, and proved as long as all the others
                                    combined. Morning and half the afternoon passed without
                                    incident. His hopes began to sink. Had the plot been discovered?
                                    Had Alfrede failed to find a way to introduce the implements he
                                    would need? It was with a vast sense of satisfaction that about
                                    four o'clock he received the keeper's
                                    announcement that he was to have a visitor. When the door opened
                                    again, it disclosed the kindly features of none other than the
                                    Marquis de Montcalm. It was not the general's first
                                    visit, for his interest in Alfrede, in the young Virginian
                                    himself, and perhaps also his hatred for Vaudreuil, had caused
                                    him to display feelings of humanity that did him honor. The
                                    previous visits had been sources of great satisfaction to the
                                    prisoner, but the present seemed somewhat inopportune; Randolph
                                    felt a secret sense of disappointment. The marquis seated
                                    himself, and for some time the talk was of commonplaces.
                              "Have you any news from Europe?" asked Randolph
                                    presently.
                              "Chevalier Bougainville arrived some days ago with ships
                                    from France. He brought the first direct tidings sincee
                                    autumn."
                              "Your news from Candiac was good, I trust."
                              " A shadow passed across the great man's face.
                                    "Both happy and sad," he said at last.
                                    "The chevalier brings me word that my eldest daughter
                                    is happily married, and that my son the count is soon to be so.
                                    But just as the chevalier sailed, came news of the death of one
                                    of my daughters. Which one, alas, he could not learn. I think it
                                    must be poor Mirète. She was delicate. I loved her very
                                    much."
                              
                              Randolph had often heard Alfrede describe Montcalm's
                                    affection for his family. He saw now that she had never
                                    exaggerated. He hastened to offer his sympathy.
                              "Such is the soldier's life," said
                                    Montcalm, after thanking him. "I have not seen my wife
                                    and children for three years. We are happy at Candiac. I hope
                                    that you may one day see the life we lead there. But it may be
                                    that I shall never know whether it was Mirète or
                                    another."
                              "Think you there is a prospect for peace?" asked
                                    Randolph, not unwilling to turn from so painful a subject.
                              "None, I fear. From the news received I judge that last
                                    year's campaign on the Continent was in no way
                                    decisive. King Frederick was surprised and lost a battle to the
                                    Austrians at Hochkirk, but showed himself as great in defeat as
                                    in victory. In spite of the odds against him, he will probably
                                    hold out for another campaign at least--perhaps indefinitely. I
                                    could almnost wish that he will, for he is a great soldier--the
                                    greatest of the age. In western Germany, our armies gained some
                                    successes but experienced an equal number of reverses. At sea,
                                    your king controls, which makes it hard for us in New
                                    France."
                              "I had hoped," said Randolph, "that all
                                    parties might be weary of the expenditure of so much blood and
                                    treasure."
                              "Peace would solve your troubles, Captain Randolph, as
                                    well as our own. I am sorely grieved to see you confined so
                                    long. You are not guilty. Of that I have long been convinced,
                                    yet I have no proof. My power, as you know, is limited to
                                    military matters, and even in that field I have a superior. But
                                    I am doing what I can for you."
                              "That I well know, your Excellency," said
                                    Randolph gratefully. "You have shown wonderful interest
                                    in me, and I have thanked God many times that you believed me
                                    true to my honor as a soldier."
                              "At least, you need be under little apprehension forsome months to come,"
                                    said the marquis. "The English cruisers are very
                                    active. The papers concerning your sentence may be taken. Even
                                    if they reach the king, his answer may suffer such a fate. The
                                    mouth of the St. Lawrence is likely to be corked as tightly as a
                                    bottle of champagne this summer. Many things may happen
                                    meantime."
                              "Yes, indeed! Perhaps I may even have an opportunity to
                                    escape."
                              The marquis leant nearer to the prisoner. "If you
                                    do," he said, in a low voice, "do not hesitate
                                    to embrace it. Your parole is, of course, no longer
                                    binding."
                              "You are very generous," said Randolph, happy
                                    that Montealm felt thus about the parole.
                              "As, however, you may be compelled to remain in this place
                                    for some time longer," the Marquis continued, in a
                                    louder voice, "I have brought you a small present to
                                    help render your stay more tolerable."
                              He rose and went to the table upon which he had on his first
                                    arrival deposited a small basket. Partially drawing aside the
                                    covering, he disclosed some bottles of wine. The little kindness
                                    touched Randolph greatly, and he was profuse of thanks. The
                                    marquis then took his leve, bidding the prisoner to be of good
                                    cheer.
                              "Do not forget," he said meaningly,
                                    "that a woman, especially a beautiful woman, can
                                    accomplish wonders."
                              "A great man and a noble one;" said Randolph to
                                    himself, after his guest was gone. "His gift is
                                    welcome, yet I could wish that the basket contained something
                                    very different from wine. That was a strange remark about a
                                    woman. One might almost think that he has some inkling of
                                    Alfrede's plans."
                              As he had nothing better to do, he proceeded to unpack the basket.
                                    After removing the covering, he took out 252 THE PATH OF GLORY several bottles
                                    of a rare vintage, and came presently to a carefully wrapped
                                    package.
                              "That cannot be another bottle of wine," he
                                    thought to himself. "Doubtless it contains some other
                                    delicacy or perhaps some other gift of the marquis's
                                    generosity."
                              With mildly heightened interest he proceeded to untie the cord. But
                                    he was utterly unprepared for the sight that greeted his eyes
                                    when the task of unwrapping the package was accomplished. For
                                    inside was a long flint-lock pistol, a little flask of powder
                                    and a number of bullets, two stout thongs of rawhide, a
                                    curiously shaped bandage of cloth with straps attached, and a
                                    slip of paper.
                              "Gracious powers," he said involuntarily,
                                    "my mind must be affected!"
                              But his sense of touch quickly convinced him that the articles in
                                    question were not mere ethereal phantoms but things that
                                    possessed concrete reality. Hastily concealing the pistol and
                                    other instruments in his bedding, he read the note. It was in
                                    Alfrede's handwriting, and ran as follows:
                              
                              "I am sending the needed articles by a sure messenger. I
                                    had hoped to introduce them in some other way but found I could
                                    not. It is a great risk for him, but I trust that suspicion will
                                    be so divided among your other visitors that no one can know the
                                    truth with certainty. The countersign is 'Ville
                                    Marie.' I am praying God to aid you."
                              
                              Many times, with blurred eyesight, he read the note. Then with
                                    impatient eagerness he awaited the hour set for action. When
                                    twilight fell, the keeper brought the evening meal. The prisoner
                                    ate with keen relish and partook sparingly of one of the bottles
                                    of wine. Then, when the little table had been cleared and he was
                                    again alone, he began by the light of a tiny candle to indite a
                                    letter which, when completed, was as follows: 
                                          
                                                
                                                  "To the Marquis Vaudreuil, Monsieur
                                                  Bigot, Captain Reparti, and others of La Grande
                                                  Société whom I am proud to number among my
                                                  Enemies:--I feel that it would be most ungracious
                                                  on my Part to take leave of your Hospitality
                                                  without a Word of Farewell. I am aware that if you
                                                  pursue me with half the Persistency with which you
                                                  plunder the People and your King, I shall have a
                                                  hard Race. Yet I shall escape. The St. Lawrence is
                                                  long, but I am a good Boatman; and I shall have
                                                  some Hours the Start. Later in the Year I hope to
                                                  return to Quebec. But I shall not come alone, and
                                                  I expect our Parts to be reversed. My Compliments,
                                                  Messieurs. Adieu.
                                                  
                                                  "Your Servant Most
                                                  Obedient,
                                                  "CHARLES RANDOLPH.
                                                  "
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              "Escape or death can be my only alternative after
                                    that," he said to himself. "I could never come
                                    back a prisoner, after having written such a
                                    letter."
                              For two or three hours he sat in his chair with what composure he
                                    could muster, waiting. At ten o'clock he drew the
                                    pistol and other articles from their place of concealment, and
                                    examined them more carefully. He found that the weapon was
                                    already loaded, but he took the precaution to pour a little more
                                    powder from the task into the priming-pan. The flask itself, the
                                    package of bullets, and the bandage he put into his pockets.
                                    Next he blew out the candle, and, without removing any of his
                                    clothes, got into bed with the pistol in his hand to wait for
                                    midnight, the hour at which his keeper was accustomed to come in
                                    and inspect the cell in order to discover whether the prisoner
                                    was trying to escape. All had thus far gone well. But as
                                    Randolph lay there in the darkness, he could do nothing but
                                    wonder whether the keeper would make the visit. Two or three
                                    times in as many months he had failed to do so. Would this be
                                    such a night? The long suspense was maddening.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXVIII
                              BEHIND THE LATTICE
                              AT last the prisoner heard steps in the corridor
                                    without. A key grated in the lock and the door opened;
                                    Dent-de-Loup entered, bearing a lighted candle. Randolph
                                    pretended not to be aroused, and the keeper closed and locked
                                    the door. Then, after a glance out of his evil eyes at the
                                    prisoner, he walked to the window. Mounting a chair, he examined
                                    and shook the bars. Satisfied that they were intact, he stepped
                                    to the floor once more and turned toward the bed.
                              He found himself looking into the capacious muzzle of a pistol.
                              "Set the candle on the table," ordered
                                    Randolph.
                              He spoke the words in a low voice, but with such an undertone of
                                    menace that the keeper hastened to comply.
                              "Take off your hat and coat."
                              Reluctantly the man obeyed.
                              "Now lie face downward on that bed."
                              "M'sieu'"--began the keeper,
                                    protestingly.
                              "Not a word!" exclaimed Randolph fiercely.
                                    "Dent-de-Loup, you have been the keeper for some
                                    months; now it is my turn. If you do not obey, you will in five
                                    seconds be as dead as the murderer you watched kicking on the
                                    gallows yesterday."
                              Thoroughly cowed, the keeper did as he was ordered. Randolph
                                    compelled him to cross his wrists behind his back and bound them
                                    together securely with one of the rawhide thongs. Next he did the same to the man's
                                    ankles. Then he rolled him over on his back.
                              "Now, Dent-de-Loup," said Randolph, taking the
                                    bandage out of his pocket, "comes a part of the
                                    procedure which I much regret. You have not been a particular
                                    friend of mine. On diverse occasions you have more than hinted
                                    that you thought I would grace the scaffold. Yet I dislike to
                                    deprive any man for six or seven hours of the use of his mouth,
                                    especially when he has so beautiful a one as you have. But I
                                    cannot have you crying out when I am gone. I must be far down
                                    the river when the alarm is given. Therefore I shall be
                                    compelled, much as I dislike the thought, to put this gag in
                                    your mouth. It is, as you will observe, made of clean cloth and
                                    will be as comfortable as such a thing can be. For this you
                                    should be duly grateful to the kind friends who provided it. Had
                                    I been left to my own devices, would probably have stuffed a
                                    dirty stocking into your mouth and fastened it there with my
                                    belt. But first you must tell me what key unlocks the outer
                                    door."
                              "Mercy, m'sieu'. Grant me my life and I
                                    will tell all," begged the keeper, who could not rid
                                    his mind of the unpleasant thought that perhaps this mad
                                    Bostonnais might end by inserting the point of a knife between
                                    his ribs.  Mon Dieu! I did but jest about the
                                    scaffold."
                              " 'T was likely to be a sorry jest for
                                    me," said Randolph. "But we lose time, and I
                                    bear no malice. Where is the key that unlocks the outer
                                    door?"
                              "In the pocket of my coat, m'sieu'. The
                                    largest is the one you wish."
                              Randolph quickly found the keys. "The largest, you say? Is
                                    that true, Dent-de-Loup? Remember, if it is not, I shall return;
                                    and you will be likely to die in a very unpleasant
                                    fashion."
                              
                              "May the Virgin cease to guard me, if I am lying,
                                    m'sieu'," said the keeper with great
                                    sincerity.
                              "Eh, well, then I shall shortly tell you good-by. Though I
                                    have been your guest so long, I cannot truthfully say that I
                                    have enjoyed your hospitality. This hat and this long coat of
                                    yours I shall wear as a disgulise; the clothes I am leaving will
                                    more than make good the loss."
                              So saying, Randolph donned the hat and coat. Then he carefully
                                    adjusted the gag and examined the lashings which held the
                                    prisoner, after which he tied the ends to the sides of the bed
                                    so that he could not give the alarm by rolling off on to the
                                    floor.
                              "Now, Dent-de-Loup," he said gayly, after placing
                                    the pistol beneath his coat, "I must say adieu. Give my
                                    regards to the jailer, and be sure that this letter which I
                                    place on the table, reaches the persons for whom it is intended.
                                          Bonsoir, Dent-de-Loup, bonsoir.
                              So saying, he unlocked the door, passed through it, relocked it,
                                    walked confidently down to the stairway, descended this, and
                                    came to the outer door. Fitting the largest key into the lock,
                                    he soon had this door open also. He stepped outside. He was
                                    free.
                              The night was moonless, but a myriad of stars shone down upon the
                                    earth, rendering objects easily distinguishable. Never had the
                                    air seemed so deliciously balmy.
                              He relocked the door and put the keys into his pocket. Then he
                                    prepared to pass the sentinel who paced before the prison. It
                                    was part of Alfrede's plan that this man should be in
                                    the secret; but, to be prepared against all contingencies,
                                    Randolph kept his pistol ready for use. He had taken only a few
                                    steps when the sentinel saw him. There was a moment of awful
                                    suspense. Then the sentinel merely saluted and did not
                                    challenge. Randolph returned the salute and walked on. Skirting
                                    the garden of the intendancy, he
                                    entered the street called Palace Hill and walked briskly toward
                                    the Upper Town.
                              He was beginning to congratulate himself over the fact that safety
                                    seemed assured when a soldier stepped out of the shadow of a
                                    tall rock, and, leveling his piece, cried shrilly:
                              "Qui vive!"
                              "France."
                              "Le mot d'ordre?"
                              "Ville Marie," Randolph said,
                                    not forgetting Alfrede's note.
                              The soldier seemed to hesitate. He was a slight fellow, and
                                    Randolph was just considering whether or not to spring upon him
                                    and overpower him before he could give the alarm, when the
                                    sentinel's doubts seemed to vanish and he said:
                              "Passez!"
                              Willingly enough, Randolph availed himself of the permission. But
                                    he had gone only a little distance further when some one
                                    called:
                              "Charles!"
                              The voice sounded strangely familiar; but, on turning round, he
                                    could see no one but the sentinel, who, to his alarm, was
                                    running after him. Randolph was about to take to his heels and
                                    trust to his fleetness of foot to escape when again he heard the
                                    voce. His desire to run vanished completely. A moment more, and
                                    the sentinel was up with him.
                              It is the custom among Frenchmen to salute each other upon the
                                    cheeks. But had any good dame been looking out of the dormer
                                    window of the little house across the street, she would have
                                    been vastly astonished at the frequency and fervency of the
                                    salutations in which these be-coated, be-trousered figures now
                                    indulged.
                              
                              "Sweetheart, you gave me a terrible scare," said
                                    Randolph presently, when the first ecstasies had somewhat
                                    abated.
                              "I hoped you would run," said the girl, laughing.
                                    "But we must not stay here longer. We can talk as we
                                    are walking."
                              "Surely you are not alone," he said
                                    anxiously.
                              "No. Brave Gerard is watching us from the shadow of that
                                    house yonder. You are to go at once to the St.John's
                                    bastion. There are no sentinels nearer than St. John's
                                    Gate, and Gerard has a rope to help you down the wall. Escape
                                    will be easy. I will go that far myself."
                              "My brave girl! My sweet Alfrede! How well you have
                                    planned it!"
                              "You saved me once. I had a debt to pay. I knew I must not
                                    fail."
                              "And was that all?" he asked meaningly.
                              "Ciel! how coneited men are! Is not that
                                    enough?"
                              "Not for me. Shall I go back to the prison?"
                              "Don't go!" She begged so tenderly yet
                                    withal so roguishly that Randolph was utterly unable to resist
                                    temptation.
                              Gerard now stepped from the shadow, and, without waiting for them
                                    to join him, walked on, up the street. They followed.
                              "How did they dispose of the sentinel?" asked
                                    Randolph presently.
                              " Gerard and Lieutenant Lusignan waylaid him on his way to
                                    his post. They overpowered and tied him and hid him in a barn.
                                    Then the lieutenant took his clothes and gun. It is he who is
                                    now standing guard."
                              "Brave Gerard! Brave Lusignan! I hope they will not get
                                    into trouble."
                              "The risk is great; but, if all goes well, I think they
                                          willbe safe. In an hour or
                                    two the lieutenant will disappear. The sentinel and the keeper
                                    will not be found till morning, and the affair will remain a
                                    mystery. I contrived to have so many people visit you last week
                                    that it will be dificult to know whom to suspect"
                              "Does Captain Van Braam know of the plan?"
                              "Nothing at all. I believed he would think his parole
                                    would not allow him to assist. Besides, I knew he would be one
                                    of the first suspected. To shield him, I took care that he
                                    should spend the evening at a dinner given by a family in the
                                    Lower Town. I shall tell him when you are safe."
                              Talking thus, they traversed the deserted streets, passed by
                                    numerous gardens and villas, and came presently to the bastion.
                                    Gerard was awaiting them.
                              "Sergeant Gerard," said Randolph feelingly,
                                    "you are a brave man. I shalI never forget my
                                    obligation."
                              "You saved mademoiselle," said the old soldier
                                    simply. She asked me to help. I could not refuse."
                              "You are to follow the same road we used last
                                    autumn," said Alfrede. "When you reach the
                                    château, rap on the door to the great hall, and Jeanne will
                                    admit you. Now you must go. It is a long walk, and you must be
                                    there by morning. Besides, Gerard must have time to escort me
                                    home and then go to the river front an sink a canoe so that it
                                    will be thought you have gone down the river."
                              "Is she not a general, Gerard?" asked Randolph
                                    admiringly.
                              "Even Maréchal Saxe was a poorer one, monsieur Ie
                                    capitaine. If all French generals were as brilliant as she, you
                                    would never take New France."
                              Tenderly Randolph bade the girl good-by, gave the old sergeant a
                                    hearty hand-shake, and stepped into one of the embrasures. There
                                    he put his foot in a loop of the ropewhich Gerard had ready, and was soon on
                                    the ground without. With a last wave of the hand to the two
                                    faces peering down upon him, he strode forward, and was soon on
                                    the road leading to his destination.
                              Above him the pines whispered in a breeze that brought to his
                                    nostrils the fragrant scent of spring blossoms. The joy of being
                                    in God's free air once more, out of the power of his
                                    enemies, intoxicated him. He did not mind the fatigue. He made
                                    such good use of his time that the scattered village of the
                                    seigniory and the old stone mill were still in darkness when he
                                    passed them. Without meeting any one, he reached the chateau and
                                    knocked as Alfrede had directed. The door was immediately
                                    opened, and in a moment he was inside with Jeanne.
                              "Did all go well?" she asked anxiously.
                              "Everything! There was not a single hitch--thanks to my
                                    good friends, not least of whom I consider you and your brave
                                    Gerard."
                              "'T was Alfrede's planning,
                                    monsieur," she said proudly. "We were only
                                    instruments."
                              "But very efficient ones," he protested. After he
                                    had related everything that had occurred, she conducted him up
                                    two flights of stairs and left him in the little room that she
                                    and Alfrede and Toinette had long ago prepared for him. After
                                    eating some of the food which Jeanne had thoughtfully placed on
                                    the table, he lay down upon the couch. For some time his mind
                                    ran back over the events of the last few hours. Then he
                                    slept.
                              
                              When he awoke the sun was streaming in through the lattice which
                                    concealed the window of his little chamber. His watch had run
                                    down, but from the sun he judged that it was nearing noon. As he
                                    looked out, he saw a long procession of calèches coming through the village towardthe château and knew that they
                                    contained the guests of the fête which Alfrede
                                    and Toinette had craftily planned to give that day in order to
                                    divert all suspicion from the château as the fugitive's
                                    hiding place.
                              Alfrede, Toinette, and the baron were the first to arrive. From his
                                    point of vantage Randolph saw them alight, and noticed that both
                                    girls glanced curiously up at the lattice. Then came the Marquis
                                    and Madame de Vaudreuil, the Marquis de Montcalm, the Chevalier
                                    de Lévis, Monsieur Bigot, Monsieur Deschenaux, Monsieur Cadet,
                                    and many other notabilities, with their ladies. La Grande
                                    Société was fully represented, as Alfrede had planned.
                              The last guest to arrive was Captain Reparti. He was nearly an hour
                                    late, and as his calèche drew near, Vaudreuil,
                                    Bigot, and others of Randolph's enemies hurried out of
                                    the house to meet him. Thanks to a peculiar formation of the
                                    walls of the château, Randolph was able to hear the conversation
                                    that followed.
                              "Have you any news, Hertel?" called Bigot
                                    eagerly, as the captain alighted.
                              "Not a word, Franҫois; but I have sent three canoes filled
                                    with Indians in pursuit. He cannot escape. I shall have his
                                    scalp by tomorrow evening at latest."
                              "Before they take it, I hope les gentilhommes
                                          sauvages will give him a little taste of fire as a
                                    punishment for that presumptuous note," said Bigot
                                    vindictively.
                              "Has anything been discovered concerning his
                                    accomplices?" asked Deschenaux.
                              "Nothing," replied Reparti regretfully.
                                    "The missing sentinel has been found, tied and gagged
                                    like the keeper. But he did not see his assailants and can tell
                                    nothing. Captain Van Braam had no direct part in the affair, for
                                    I have ascertained beyond a doubt that he was at a house in the
                                    Lower Town until long past midnight. Pardieu!the jailer
                                    swears it is witchcraft, and I begin to agree with
                                    him."
                              "Nonsense!" exclaimed Vaudreuil. "But
                                    you are right in thinking the Dutchman had no part in
                                    it."
                              "Who was it then?" asked Bigot.
                              "I will answer your question by another one. Who was it
                                    visited the prisoner a few hours before his escape carrying a
                                    basket of wine? Voilà tout!"
                              "It may be true," said Bigot thoughtfully,
                                    "but we have no proof. Many others have visited the
                                    prisoner of late, and the keeper admitted that he had not
                                    searched the cell for weeks. We have been too careless, and now
                                    the bird has flown."
                              As Bigot finished there came a knock on Randolph's door.
                                    When he answered in a low voice, the door opend, and Alfrede
                                    stepped inside. She was no longer dressed in the uniform of a
                                    soldier; she wore a vastly becoming spring gown and looked so
                                    altogether sweet and charming that Randolph felt moved to do
                                    something at which she pretended great offense.
                              "Toinette is without," she said warningy.
                              "Let her stay," said Randolph inhospitably.
                              "How is my prisoner?" she asked, after an
                                    interval. "You know that now I am your
                                    jailer."
                              "I pray God that you may always be so!" he said
                                    fervently. "But come hither; I have something to show
                                    you."
                              So saying, he led her to the window. For some moments they stood
                                    gazing down upon the group without.
                              "Is it all true, or are we dreaming?" he
                                    whispered.
                              "Does it seem like dreaming?" she asked, with her
                                    face very close to his.
                              "No I" said he; and he kissed red lips that
                                    bravely gave back the caress.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXIX
                              THE TRIBES GATHER FOR THE LAST TIME
                              
                                    
                                          Faintly as tolls the evening chime,
                                          Our voices keep tune and our oars keep time,
                                          Soon as the woods on shore look dim,
                                          We'll sing at St. Ann's our parting
                                                hymn
                                          Row, brothers, row, the stream runs fast,
                                          The rapids are near, and the daylight's
                                                past.
                                    
                                    MOORE.
                              
                              WHILE Randolph was struggling against the
                                    machinations of his enemies in Quebec, emissaries of Vaudreuil
                                    were traversing the wintry western wilderness seeking savage
                                    allies and scattered bushrangers for what it was believed would
                                    be the critical year of the great war.
                              And now beneath the white limestone cliffs of tortoise-shaped
                                    Michilimackinac a motley host was mustering. The French
                                    themselves were little more than savages. They wore gay capotes
                                    and gaudy sashes or hunting-shirts of smoked deerskin, bordered
                                    with fringes and the quills of the porcupine; they painted their
                                    faces black and red, and fastened eagle feathers in their long
                                    black hair, or plastered it down with a mixture of paint and
                                    glue. The Indians were of various tribes; tall naked Ojibwas
                                    from the bold coasts of blue Superior, with quivers full of
                                    copper-tipped arrows; wild Menomonies and Winnebagoes from the
                                    region of Green Bay; Ottawas, wrapped close in gaudy blankets,
                                    their fringed leggings fantastically adorned with little
                                    tinkling bells and their heads garnished with feathers. Drawing
                                    their canoes upon the white beaches, they landed,stripped sheets of bark to cover their
                                    frail lodges, and waited. Lazily they lay about their fires, now
                                    laughing at some obscene jest; now dancing some mad dance to the
                                    accompaniment of chichikoue or war drum; now
                                    anxiously watching the medicine man pitch his magic lodge and
                                    listening to his inarticulate mumblings as he invoked the
                                    spirits; now trembling at wild recitals of witchcraft and
                                    necromancy--of mighty okies, bloodless geebi, and grisly
                                    weendigoes, of evil manitous that lurked in dens and fastnesses
                                    of the forest.
                              By the middle of May the canoes had ceased to come; and the
                                    Black-Robes across the Straits at St. Ignace, where the bones of
                                    Père Marquette reposed, summoned the whole band to hear mass.
                                    The little church was too small to contain such a multitude; but
                                    an altar had been set up outside, and before this they gathered.
                                    The missionaries, arrayed in priestly vestments, raised aloft
                                    the sacred Host; the whole wild throng knelt, and with
                                    discordant voices joined in the hymn of praise, Te
                                          Deum Laudamus.
                              Dismissed with priestly benediction, the band returned to their
                                    camp upon the island. Again the medicine men consulted the
                                    manitou, while their gaping auditory squatted like apes about
                                    their mystic tents ,listening in fear and awe. The auspices
                                    proved favorable; the day wound up with a grand war dance. Far
                                    into the night the fires of resinous driftwood glared against
                                    the dark foliage of the trees, shone far out over the rippling
                                    water, and revealed the frenzied gestures and ferocious
                                    stampings of tawny limbs and the contortions of savage visages;
                                    while the barbaric drum boomed unceasingly, and the chill air
                                    was split with hideous yells.
                              At length the east glowed with a vivid fire across the waters and
                                    through the tops of the jagged fir-trees, while the fading moon
                                    hung low in the estern sky. The campwas soon astir; the canoes were launched; bags of maize and
                                    bundles of pelts were thrown in; and, amid shots, shouts, and
                                    savage yells, the band embarked. Eastward lay their course over
                                    depths so clear that the canoes seemed balanced between earth
                                    and sky. Above, the watchful gulls circled with harsh cries,
                                    while beneath, the armored sturgeon glided slowly over the
                                    shimmering sand. Past little islands and bold capes; past the
                                    northern shore of the spirit-haunted Manitoulins, landing from
                                    time to time to make their camp and cook their sagamite of fish and pounded maize; through narrow
                                    channels and past mountains that rose high on the northern
                                    shore, they plied their paddles, until one afternoon there
                                    loomed ahead a line of granite, in whose walls appeared an
                                    opening like the mouth of some fossil monster, out of which
                                    issued the French River, brown with ooze from rotting leaves and
                                    trees and roots.
                              Thus far all had gone peacefully; but now a medicine man,
                                    consulting the Great Spirit, found him unfavorable, and, with
                                    those who wearied and those who feared, turned southward to fish
                                    among the thirty thousand islands off that iron-bound coast,
                                    which, when the pyramids were yet undreamed of, had for ages
                                    felt the wash of summer waves and the battering of
                                    winter's ice. Up the river undismayed went the rest.
                                    Their troubles soon began. Two miles above the river's
                                    mouth rapids appeared--no gentle ripple but a spot where the
                                    water plunged over rocky ledges, gurgled under drifted trees,
                                    boiled in rugged chasms, and filled the wilderness with its
                                    unceasing ravings. Canoes were lifted from the water, and,
                                    raised on dusky shoulders, were borne through the tangled woods
                                    where mosquitoes rose in swarms and tiny black flies burrowed in
                                    the smarting flesh. Above, the canoes were launched again, and
                                    onward still the voyagers fared.
                              
                              Now they passed among pine-tufted rocky islands, where patriarchal
                                    fir-trees, shaggy with pendant mosses, cast black shadows; while
                                    in the water below the bleached limbs of some fallen monarch of
                                    the woods formed screen for voracious sharp-toothed muskellunge
                                    waiting for his finny prey. Again they passed between walls of
                                    gneissic granite, in whose crevices the bearded cedar clung with
                                    snake-like roots; while aloft the rock maple, the aspen, and the
                                    glistening birch reared their light green foliage beneath the
                                    towering white pine. Anon they beheld where some rushing fire
                                    had scorched the rocks and left dead, blasted trunks standing
                                    amid the blackened stumps and prostrate bodies of comrades half
                                    consumed. From behind lichen-clad rocks, the stealthy lynx
                                    unseen watched them as they glided by; the awkward porcupine
                                    waddled leisurely with rustling quills into the thicket; the
                                    loons dived into the brown water; the startled deer, come down
                                    to drink, bounded off like huge rabbits; and the giant moose,
                                    standing in some cove to escape the flies, plunged shoreward,
                                    shaking his huge antlers and wet sides, and, with unwieldy but
                                    silent trot, vanished in the labyrinthine wilderness.
                              At evening they landed. Some cut poles and stripped sheets of bark,
                                    and on the shelving rocks built frail camp sheds; others
                                    gathered wood, crushed the maize, and in kettles hung on sticks
                                    laid over ready rocks boiled the pittance of sagamite; while still others sought the reedy heads
                                    of bays and lay in wait for deer. The sun dropped behind the
                                    hills, but the afterglow of the North long furnished light. The
                                    moon rose. From afar came the weird cry of the loon, the howl of
                                    the hungry wolf, and the hoarse bellow of the moose. Soon the
                                    voyagers slept to rise again when the moon sank to rest and the
                                    sun once more shot his beams upward in the east.
                              Each day was but a replica of the day before. Eachday the warrior saw before him the same
                                    tawny shoulders, the same tangled har, the same sinewy arms
                                    plying unceasingly the dripping paddle. Avoiding a labyrinth of
                                    lakes and chenails, where the stranger might
                                    wander aimlessly for weeks, they kept on up the north channel of
                                    the river through passages half closed by bare cyclopean blocks,
                                    portaged round the Grand Récollet, where the river, dividing
                                    into three streams, pours itself with unceasing roar into a
                                    foamy caldron, then fared onward to the Five Mile Rapids and
                                    still onward, till at length before them spread out the broad
                                    expanse of demon-infested Lake Nipissing, where from lodges half
                                    hidden in the woods they gathered new recruits. Past craggy
                                    shores and verdant isles they glided once again, till they came
                                    to the head of a portage track, worn smooth by untold
                                    generations of moccasined feet following the great aboriginal
                                    route between East and West. Then for forty miles down tributary
                                    waters they floated, until they reached the broad and welcome
                                    Ottawa. Through or around rapids innumerable, the Deux Rivières,
                                    the Rocher Capitaine, the Caribou, the Joachims--down a narrow
                                    gorge where the hurrying stream looks neither to the right nor
                                    to the left, over the two lakes of the Alumettes, around the
                                    sixteen cataracts of the Chats, and down a stretch of water
                                    where rapid followed rapid until the river was a mass of milky
                                    foam--thus, day by day they fared until they passed the lake of
                                    the Chaudière and heard ahead a hoarse roar as if of some raging
                                    demon.
                              It was the cataracts of the Chaudière, where the river, shaking off
                                    all restraint, goes foaming and plunging into unfathomed chasms.
                                    Here on the brink of the rocky basin, out of which sprang puffs
                                    of spray like smoke from the cannon's mouth, gathered
                                    all the wild crew. On a wooden platter they placed the last of
                                    their tobacco. Solemndances and
                                    speeches followed, after which, with loud invocations, the
                                    offering was thrown into the falls to conciliate the spirit that
                                    lurked there.
                              This ceremony accomplished, they glided on down the foam-flecked
                                    river. They passed the rapids of the Long Sault and of Carillon,
                                    crossed the Lake of Two Mountains, and one fair day floated on
                                    the bosom of the St. Lawrence. Pausing at Montreal for
                                    ceremonious welcome, to sell their pelts, and to indulge in wild
                                    carouse, they then paddled on again down the great river, and
                                    one sunny afternoon in middle June rounded the great promontory
                                    and beheld their goal. Firing their guns and shrieking like the
                                    demons that they were, they drew toward the wharf to be greeted
                                    there with salutes of cannon and by the governor himself.
                              Thus did the Children of the Wilderness gather for the last time to
                                    help their father Onontio against the English.
                              
                              Throughout all that wild voyage of three hundred leagues one canoe
                                    had ever been fremost. In its stern sat a short and fat warrior
                                    whose face was disfigured with horrible scars, whose words were
                                    heeded by even the most refractory of that savage crew. He was
                                    Le Chat, the Ottawa.
                              In that same canoe sat yet another and slighter form on whom also
                                    our eyes have already rested. His dress was that of the savage;
                                    his hair was gathered into a miniature scalp-lock. His face and
                                    hands were browned by wind and sun until they were as dark as
                                    those of the warriors about him, but underneath his fringed
                                    clothing the skin shone white. On shore he helped to build the
                                    fire of sticks or rear the lodge of bark, or wandered seemingly
                                    at will--yet some beady eye was ever on him. In the canoe he
                                    plied a paddle with the others, but now and anon, his strength
                                    worn out,paused in his labor; and
                                    at such times his blue eyes seemed to gaze at other forms and
                                    other scenes. He was a boy of ten years, whose name the reader
                                    has already guessed. He was young Barnaby Currin, the captive of
                                    the Shenandoah.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXX
                              THE MEETING ON THE PLATEAU
                              FOR weeks Captain Randolph lay immured in the
                                    little hidden chamber, cut off from the green fields and
                                    enticing forests which he viewed longingly from his lattice
                                    window. During a long interval he saw no more of Toinette and
                                    Alfrede, for the two conspirators had returned to the city, and
                                    rightly judged that visits to the manor house might arouse
                                    suspicion. The inaction wore upon him almost as much as actual
                                    imprisonment had done, and he welcomed the news that Jeanne
                                    brought him with his meals. What she had to tell was mostly
                                    unimportant, mere gossip often; but one day in mid-June she had
                                    a tale that aroused his keenest interest.
                              "'Ti s said, monsieur le capitaine, that an
                                    English fleet is coming up the river," she remarked
                                    carelessly, for, with all her interest in the prisoner, she was
                                    a stanch patriot. " I do not believe it. I think they
                                    would not dare."
                              For ten days there were rumors and counter rumors. Then one morning
                                    the old bonne came to his room in a state of
                                    great excitement.
                              "Hélas!" she cried,
                                    "there is no doubt. The fleet has really come. Some habitants have just returned from Quebec who
                                    have seen it. It lies anchored off the Isle of Orleans. They say
                                    its masts are as numerous as the trees in the forest. Mon Dieu, I know not what will become of
                                    us!"
                              
                              The news that so distressed the good dame aroused Randolph to the
                                    highest pitch of satisfaction. His prophecy had come true. A
                                    blow was about to be struck at the vitals of New France. He
                                    could scarce repress a cheer.
                              At the first rumor of the fleet's approach he had formed a
                                    resolution. It was not for him to lie in quiet when great events
                                    were in the air; he would join the fleet. Even his plan was
                                    ready. He would try to reach the St. Lawrence somewhere above
                                    the city, find a boat, and loat down past the defenses before
                                    daybreak. And he would make the venture that very night.
                              But once again ill fortune pursued him. For a day or two he had
                                    been feeling unwell; and as the hours passed his indisposition
                                    developed into a headache so violent that, as it was evident
                                    that he should need all of his physical powers for the attempt,
                                    he toward evening reluctantly decided that he must postpone the
                                    venture. Morning found him worse instead of better, and so weak
                                    that he was forced to keep to his bed. Days, in fact, passed
                                    without any improvement; and in addition to the pains of
                                    illness, he was forced to suffer from the realization that now,
                                    when he would have given all for strength, he must lie sick and
                                    hidden in that little room, while his countrymen played out the
                                    game in which he so much longed to participate.
                              As he tossed haggard and fever-stricken on his bed, Jeanne, who
                                    nursed him, brought vague accounts of the military situation.
                                    The English fleet, it appeared, controlled the river below the
                                    town, and troops had landed on the Isle of Orleans and Point
                                    Lévis, on the latter of which, as Van Braam had prophesied,
                                    batteries were being erected with which to bombard the city.
                                    There had been skirmishes on land, and on the water an attempt
                                    to bum the British fleet; but Randolph gathered that as yet
                                    neither party had won any decided advantage. On the night of the
                                    twelfth ofJuly the roar of
                                    artillery which came to the château at intervals increased in
                                    violence, and he judged that the English batteries had at last
                                    opened upon the city.
                              The next day brought the baron and his household to the château.
                                    Soon the sick man's heart was gladdened by a visit from
                                    the two girls.
                              "Why did you leave the city?" he asked weakly,
                                    after he had replied to their questions about his condition.
                              "We were driven hither by the bombardment,"
                                    Toinette explained. "Your countrymen are most
                                    inconsiderate, monsieur le capitaine. One of their shells has
                                    already overwhelmed a chimney of our house, and in time I doubt
                                    not the whole will be destroyed."
                              "'T is a pity that it should be so,"
                                    said Randolph regretfully. "I would much prefer that
                                    the possession of the city might have been settled by a pitched
                                    battle, in which none but actual combatants could
                                    suffer."
                              "N'importe," said
                                    Toinette confidently. "Quebec is still ours. Monsieur
                                    Wolfe shall never step inside, except it be as a
                                    prisoner!"
                              "Is General Wolfe then at the head of the
                                    besiegers?" asked Randolph, with interest.
                                    "'T is said that he distinguished himself
                                    greatly at Louisburg, and Captain Van Braam saw him fight
                                    gallantly at Dettingen."
                              "'T is Wolfe, beyond a doubt," answered
                                    Alfrede. "I have seen a proclamation signed with his
                                    name. He has landed troops on the island and on Point Lévis,
                                    from whence his batteries have just opened on the
                                    town."
                              "What has happened? I have had only rumors and
                                    conjectures."
                              "Montcalm's army occupies lines stretching from
                                    the city to the falls of the Montmorency," said Alrede.
                                    "The fords of that river have been fortified and are
                                    carefully guarded. The water front of the city is defended by
                                    many land andfloating batteries.
                                    The general thinks that he is safe from direct attack. What he
                                    fears is that the governor may spoil his dispositions, or that
                                    General Amherst, who is advancing with a large army by way of
                                    Lakes St. Sacrament and Champlain, may drive back the weak
                                    French force under Bourlamaque, and unite his army with that
                                    before the city."
                              "Have there been conflicts of importance?"
                              "The afternoon the fleet arrived a storm caused great
                                    confusion among the vessels, drove some of the smaller ones
                                    ashore and sank others, but subsided too quickly to inflict
                                    irreparable damage."
                              "The winds and waves have ever been the friends, not the
                                    enemies, of Britain," said Randolph, under his
                                    breath.
                              "That night," the girl continued,
                                    "Vaudreuil attempted to destroy the fleet by fire. He
                                    sent down seven fireships, bought of the intendant at an
                                    exorbitant price; but Delouche, the boastful coxcomb who had the
                                    affair in charge, fired the vessels too soon, and those that did
                                    not blow up or run ashore were towed by the English sailors
                                    where they would do no harm. Toinette and I witnessed the
                                    attempt from Montcalm's headquarters at Beauport. The
                                    fireworks were magnificent. The explosions lit up the river with
                                    an infernal glare. But the only gainer by the fiasco was
                                    Bigot."
                              Of Randolph's life during that terrible summer but little
                                    need be told here. He was now kept better informed of the events
                                    of the campaign, and with Alfrede's coming to the
                                    château some of his ardor for departure disappeared. Even had it
                                    not been so, his illness, which was a sort of slow fever that
                                    clung to him with the persistency of the old man of the sea,
                                    would have prevented his making any attempt to reach the
                                    besieging army. Weeks passed before he was out of danger, and
                                    ambition began to rise in his veins once more.
                              
                              "Thanks to my kind Friends I am better and am once more
                                    able to write," he confided on the twenty-fifth of July
                                    to a Journal he had begun during his
                                    imprisonment. "Much has happened in these Weeks. The
                                    Lower Town, the Cathedral, and many mansions in the Upper Town,
                                    including, alas! the La Vallière Home, have been reduced to
                                    Ruins by the relentless Fire of the British Batteries. General
                                    Wolfe has employed every Stratagem to draw the Marquis de
                                    Montcalm down from his inaccessible Heights; but, as was to be
                                    expected in so able a Soldier, the Marquis has resolutely
                                    refused to be noticed. My Countrmen have seized the Heights
                                    below the River Montmorency, and have made a Reconnaissance in
                                    Force up that River, and New England Ranger and British Redcoat
                                    have again met Savage and Canadian in the Game of Forest
                                    Warfare--all to no Purpose, for Everywhere the few Fords were
                                    rendered impassable by rench Fortifications. Brigadier Townshend
                                    ('t is said) has formed an intrenched Camp on the
                                    Heights thus seized and is bombarding the French lines. He is
                                    but wasting Time, I fear. Atfrede says that the French are
                                    confident. 'No doubt you will demolish the
                                    Town,' a French officer who went out under a Flag
                                    recently said to the English Commander, 'but you shall
                                    never get inside it.' 'I will have Quebec if I
                                    stay till the end of November was Wolfe's spirited
                                    Answer. Knowing the City as I do, I am convinced that it will
                                    never be taken from below. The Attack should be made from above.
                                    What I hope may be intended as a Beginning in this Direction has
                                    been made. Some Vessels have run up the River in the Night past
                                    the Batteries of the Town, and a Fleet of Boats have been
                                    dragged across Point Lévis and launched again. A few Days since
                                    a Detachment of Troops, embarked in these Boats, made a descent
                                    upon a French Post at Pointe-aux-Trembles, some distance up the
                                    River, where after a brisk Skirmish with a Band of Indians, they
                                    captured a few Papers, some Stores, and about a hundred
                                    non-combatant Refugees, mostly Women, including la
                                          belle avanturière, Madame Cadet. The Ladies were
                                    entertained by Wolfe at Dinner on Board one of the Vessels,
                                          andwere then sent to the
                                    French lines under protection of a Flag. Toinette, who has seen
                                    some of the Refugees, reports that all were treated with great
                                    Kindness and Consideration. For this I am
                                    thankful."
                              "August lst.--I continue slowly to improve, but am in low
                                    Spirits. Yesterday my Countrymen made the most serious Attack
                                    they have yet ventured. The Account I have received is confused,
                                    but of the unhappy Result there can be no Doubt. It seems that
                                    General Wolfe, disappointed in his Hope of enticing his wily
                                    Opponent down from the Heights, resolved to make a desperate
                                    Effort to storm the French entrenched Camp. The Point selected
                                    for the Enterprise was just above the River Montmorenyc. Here,
                                    as I know from a Visit made last Autumn to the Falls, the
                                    Heights rise up from an Expanse of Mud Flats exposed at low
                                    Tide. Late inthe afternoon, when the Tide was out, Troops from
                                    Point Lévis and the Isle of Orleans landed from Boats upon these
                                    Flats, while a Column from Townshend's Camp forded the
                                    Montmorency below the Falls and hastened to join their comrades.
                                    But the first Regiment to land attacked too precipitately, and,
                                    though they captured a Redoubt at the Foot of the Heights, were
                                    driven back with great Slaughter when they attempted to climb
                                    the Slope. A heavy Thunderstorm burst at that Juncture, with the
                                    Result that the Slope became so slippery that Wolfe gave over
                                    the Attempt and retired. The French are much elated over their
                                    Success. Alfrede says many Officers think the Campaign as good
                                    as ended. Vaudreuil has publicly declared that he has no more
                                    Anxiety for Quebec. He will doubtless write a long Letter to
                                    France setting forth in great Detail how the Victory was won
                                    through HIS skillful Dispositions. I do not begrudge Montcalm
                                    his Laurels; but I own it galls me to think of the Rejoicing of
                                    such Rascals as Bigot, Vaudreuil, and Reparti. If Geneal Wolfe
                                    is the Officer I trust he is, he will not so easily be turned
                                    from his Purpose. Never, however, has a Soldier had to attack a
                                    stronger Position, or to face a stouter Antagonist. Our
                                    continued ill Success causes me to have dark
                                    Forebodings."
                              
                              "August 30th.--Thanks be to God and my kind Nurses, I am
                                    almost recovered; but this has been a trying Period. I have not
                                    had the Heart to write. The News which reaches my Retreat is
                                    scanty, but from what I hear I udge that the military Situation
                                    remains much the same. Sir William Johnson has captured Fort
                                    Niagara, and Amherst has forced Bourlamaque to evacuate
                                    Ticonderoga and Crown Point. But the French hold a strong
                                    position at the foot of Lake Champlain, and their armed Vessels
                                    control the Lake. I fear that General Wolfe will get no help
                                    from Amherst, though the Chevalier de Lévis, with five hundred
                                    Men, has been detached from the Army defending Quebec and sent
                                    up the St. Lawrence. Baron La Vallière, who, despite his age and
                                    ancient wounds, has been in active Service since the Fleet
                                    appeared, has gone with him.
                              " Deserters report that One-tenth of the English Army have
                                    been killed or wounded, and that many more have died of
                                    Distempers or are in Hospitals; while the whose Army is
                                    depressed by lack of Success. Nor are the French in much better
                                    case. Our Fleet controls the River for twenty or thirty Miles
                                    above Quebec, thus making the Transportation of Supplies
                                    difficult. Alfrede says that Bread costs three Francs a Pound;
                                    that Hospital Accommodations and Appliances are poor; that
                                    Medicine is lacking.
                              "To crown the English Misfortunes General Wolfe is ill. I
                                    doubt not that a Pall of Gloom has settled down upon his Army.
                                    What will be the Outcome I know not. Winter will soon come, and
                                    the Fleet must sail. The Time for Victory is short. The French
                                    wax more confident What of my Hopes for Peace? Of finding little
                                    Barnaby, whose Father must be with Amherst? For my own Escape?
                                    The Outlook is gloomy."
                              "Sept. 10th.--Nothing decisive has been accomplished in a
                                    military Way. The English remain before the Town, and General
                                    Wolfe is said to be again among his Troops, who receive him
                                    joyfully. He seems to be feeling his Way toward another Plan.
                                    The Montmorency Camp has been abandoned, and many more Ships
                                    have run up the River past the Defenses. I trust that he means
                                    to establish himself above the City. Ifhe does so, the Marquis de Montcalm must
                                    either abandon the Place or fight him upon his own Terms, for
                                    the English Army will be between Montcalm and his Provisions and
                                    betwixt him and the French Army opposing General Amherst. But
                                    the Time for Action is short and the Difficulties in the way of
                                    a Landing are many. A few more Days must decide the Issue.
                                    Already a number of rainy Days have caused the Loss of Precious
                                    Time.
                              "In this great Crisis I must not be idle. For week I have
                                    been well enough to make a Venture, though Lack of Exercise has
                                    prevented me from recovering my full Strength. But when I was
                                    ready to make the Trial, a Detachment of Militia, which encamped
                                    about the Château, rendered the Attempt too hazardous. This
                                    Morning they withdrew,and I have set To-night for the Venture.
                                    The Prospect for Success is not too bright, but I must not
                                    remain here another Winter. Aleady my Place of Refuge has more
                                    than once narrowly escaped Discovery. Besides, Duty calls
                                    me."
                              His preparations for the Venture were already made. After finishing
                                    the entry in his Journal, he wrote a long
                                    letter to Alfrede, from whom he had kept the secret of his
                                    intended attempt. "It grieves me sorely, dearest, to
                                    leave you thus, but it will be safer for us all for me to be
                                    gone. The Action of my enemies long since absolved me from my
                                    Parole; and, in the Situation which now presents itself, my
                                    Place is with the besieging Army. Had it not been for my
                                    Illness, I should long ago have made the Venture." Thus
                                    ran the letter. With what endearments and protestations of love
                                    it closed may best be left to the reader's
                                    imagination.
                              After the letter was written, there still remained a long interval
                                    of daylight, but twilight came at last and faded into darkness.
                                    Jeanne brought his supper, and he ate it hurriedly. One by one
                                    the lights in the dabins of the habitants went
                                    out. The noises in the château itself ceased. The time had
                                    come.
                              
                              His pistol, freshly charged, had long been in his belt, and
                                    everything else in readiness. Leaving the letter upon the little
                                    table, he cautiously opened the door and crept softly down the
                                    stairs. The outside door was barred, but he managed to open it
                                    and stepped outside. It was good to feel the turf under his feet
                                    once more, to see the stars shining overhead. A feeling of
                                    exhilaration, of confidence, came over him. It would go hard
                                    with any one who stood between him and safety.
                              Moving warily in the shadows, he quitted the château which for so
                                    many weeks had been his refuge. Making a long detour through
                                    some fields to avoid all habitations, he came out presently on
                                    the road to Quebec. Swiftly, but cautiously, he sped toward the
                                    city. Once he heard voices ahead, and, hiding in a thicket,
                                    watched a patrol composed of a dozen habitants
                                    pass westward in the direction from which he had come.
                              "May le diable fly away with these
                                    English rogues!" exclaimed on one of them ruefully, as
                                    they drew abreast of his hiding place. "They hang upon
                                    us like a cougar upon the back of a deer."
                              "Bah!" said another more cheerfully. "We
                                    will shake them off. Many will never see their homes again. Wait
                                    till Monsieur North-Wind comes sweeping down, then you will see
                                    them loosen their hold."
                              The others grunted approval of the last speech, and all were soon
                                    out of hearing. Randolph came out of the thicket and hurried on.
                                    A long walk brought him near the place where the road descended
                                    into the valley of the St. Charles. Believing that this spot was
                                    probably guarded, he had already decided that here he would
                                    leave the road and strike across country to a little cove known
                                    as the Anse-au-Foulon, about two miles above Quebec. He had
                                    visited this cove the fall before and felt certain that he would
                                    find boats there.Doubtless the
                                    cove would be guarded, but he hoped that in the darkness he
                                    would be able to elude the vigilance of the sentinels. Carefully
                                    taking his bearings, he plunged into the woods on his right.
                              It was now nearing midnight. There was no moon, and beneath the
                                    trees the darkness was intense. He was obliged to feel his way
                                    forward, and more than once he fell over protruding roots or the
                                    trunks of fallen trees. Had it not been for his forest training,
                                    he would soon have been hopelessly lost. But he managed to keep
                                    his direction, though his progress was distressingly slow, both
                                    because of the darkness and because in his weakened physical
                                    condition his strength was beginning to ebb. He kept doggedly
                                    on, however, and presently arrived at the foot of the plateau
                                    beyond which lay the Foulon. He climbed the slope, and, reaching
                                    the top, hurried across corn-felds, patches of meadow, and
                                    through thickets, toward his destination.
                              Thus far all had gone prosperously, but as he plunged incautiously
                                    through a clump of bushes he came suddenly upon the crouching
                                    figure of a man. The man carried a gun, but strangely enough
                                    made no effort to use it. Randolph had no time to draw his own
                                    weapon before the fellow was upon him. The Virginian met his
                                    onrush with determination, and they grappled with each other. To
                                    Randolph's surprise, his antagonist did not call for
                                    assistance, but seemed determined to effect his capture by his
                                    own unaided efforts. For some minutes they wrestled in total
                                    silence, except for their heavy breathing and the crackling of
                                    dead branches beneath them. With liberty and perhaps life as the
                                    stake at issue, Randolph rallied his weakened form and fought
                                    vigorously. If he could only come out victorious, all might yet
                                    go well. But his assailant was man of unusual strength and
                                    agility, and only by almost superhuman efforts could Randolph
                                    foil the attempts made to throwhim. His strength soon began rapidly to fail him, and as a
                                    last resort he bethought himself of a trick which as a boy he
                                    had often practiced in the old days at Eastover. It was a trick
                                    which admitted of but one defense; but this, if known by the man
                                    against whom it was attempted, could be used with resistless
                                    effect against the aggressor. Slowly Randolph forced his
                                    antagonist backward across his thigh and knee. But at the moment
                                    when victory seemed assured, his enemy suddenly kicked
                                    Randolph's feet from under him, and twisting in his
                                    grasp, fell heavily upon him.
                              Exhausted and half stunned, Randoluh lay thus, thinking helplessly
                                    of the months of labor lost. Again he was to be a prisoner to
                                    his enemies. He had failed.
                              His conqueror now spoke for the first time. "Lie still, ye
                                    varmint," he said menacingly, "while I tie
                                    an' gag ye!"
                              Something in the voice roused a memory in Randolph's
                                    benumbed brain.
                              "Who are you?" he asked weakly.
                              "Holy mither of Moses!" exclaimed his captor,
                                    rising nimbly to his feet. "Wbo are ye?"
                              Randolph likewise staggered to his feet, and mechanically the two
                                    moved out of the shadow where the fight had taken place into a
                                    patch of starlight.
                              And there Captain Randolph, as if in a dream, found himself gazing
                                    into the astonished but joyful visage of Lieutenant Barnaby
                                    Currin.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXXI
                              A RECONNAISSANCE
                              "IN the name of God, Barnaby, how did
                                    you get here?" cried Randolph.
                              "By the same token I might ask how you come to be
                                    trapesin' about in these thickets when most honest
                                    folks are abed?" Barnaby retorted grimly. Then he threw
                                    his arm around his friend and said somewhat anxiously:
                                    "I hope I have n't hurted you none, Charlie
                                    dear."
                              "Not at all, except that you knocked most of the breath
                                    out of me. I've been ill, else you would n't
                                    have thrown me so easily."
                              "I don't care to tackle any tougher a
                                    customer," chuckled Barnaby. "You were as hard
                                    to handle as a catamount, and all the time I was
                                    wonderin' why in thunder you did n't holler
                                    for help. 'T was n't till you tried that trick
                                    that I knowed I had you."
                              "But how do you come here?" Randolph
                                    repeated.
                              "I brought dispatches from Gineral Amherst to Gineral
                                    Wolfe. Charles, have you any news for me?"
                              "Very little," said Randolph regretfully,
                                    realizing how much his words would blight his friend's
                                    hopes. "While I was in Quebec I made many inquiries.
                                    But I could learn little except that Le Chat was said to be in
                                    the region of the Upper Lakes. Yesterday Mademoiselle de
                                    Saint-Pierre heard a rumor that the sachem is now with the
                                    savages in Montcalm's army, but it may not be
                                    true."
                              Barnaby gave a great gulp of disappointment. "All the
                                    while we was comin' from Amherst," he said,
                                    "I washopin'.
                                    But God's will be done! We had a turrible time on the
                                    way, Charles--thirty-four days on the road. We stared five
                                    strong, but a band of Abenakis waylaid us an' killed
                                    one man an' took another. The rest of us got away only
                                    by the skin of our teeth. We knowed they'd watch all
                                    the usual ways, so we made a, long detour to the northeast up
                                    the Kennebec an' down the Chaudière through the worst
                                    wilderness I ever set foot in. Once we'd have starved
                                    if I hadn't been lucky enough to shoot a moose. But how
                                    did you git away?"
                              Randolph sat down on a prostrate tree trunk, and in a low voice and
                                    in as few words as possible told the story of his adventures in
                                    Quebec and of his escape. Then he again insisted upon knowing
                                    how Barnaby came to be upon the plateau.
                              "I'm reconnoiterin'," said the
                                    Irishman, after some hesitation. "You see it was this
                                    way: When I gave Amherst's letter to Gineral Wolfe, the
                                    gineral said rather stern like that he thought we'd
                                    been a long time comin'. I told him the trouble
                                    we'd had on the way, an' then he kinder
                                    changed his tune and seemed real sorry for what he'd
                                    said. He was disappointed in the letter, for he said it did
                                    n't do nothin' but confirm the rumors
                                    he'd already had of the capture of Niagara, Old Ti,
                                    an' Crown Point. Then he asked me right out in
                                    meetin' when I thought he could expect help from
                                    Amherst.
                              "'Gineral Wolfe,' says I, no doubt
                                    you're after wantin' a plain answer without
                                    any evasions. I'll give it. Gineral Amherst's
                                    a prime gineral when he gits ready to strike, but the trouble is
                                    he's a long time gittin' ready. When we left
                                    him at Crown Point, the Frenchers had four armed vessels on the
                                    lake, an' our troops was tryin' to build
                                    vessels to fight 'em. That takes time--always more than
                                    you count on. They was some who said the Frinch vesselscould be took from open boats
                                    an' I know one man who would've helped man the
                                    boats; but Amherst said to build ships, so that's what
                                    they're doin'. It's my opinion that
                                    if Gineral Amherst ever sees Quebec, it'll not be
                                    earlier than next summer.'
                              "Gineral Wolfe looked kinder disappointed at this, though
                                    he smiled a little at my way of sayin' that Amherst is
                                    slow. I did n't see no more of him again till this
                                    morin', when I was brought aboard the Sutherland--that's the ship he has his
                                    headquarters on--an' he told me to git into a boat that
                                    was lyin' by the vessel's side. When we put
                                    off, the boat held, besides myself, the rowers, an' the
                                    midshipman at the tiller, six men dressed in the uniforms of
                                    genadiers. But they were n't grenadiers--not by a long
                                    jump; they were Colonel Carleton, Captain De Laune, Admiral
                                    Holmes, who commands the ships above the town, Brigadiers
                                    Monckton an' Townshend, an' Gineral Wolfe
                                    himself. We fell down with the current till we were opposite a
                                    cove just across yonder called the Foulon. The general said
                                    never a word to his officers as to what he was up to, but
                                    careless like called their attention to a path that runs up the
                                    cliff, but is blocked up with bresh. At the top was about a
                                    dozen tents. A little ways above the cove is a battery,
                                    an' we did n't dare run in close, but the
                                    gineral ordered the sailors to row the boat over to the other
                                    side, an' then with me an' the officers
                                    climbed to the top, an' took some long looks through a
                                    telescope.
                              "The officers did n't take much interest in what
                                    he was doin', an he still did n't say a word
                                    about what he was thinkin' of. When the gineral was
                                    n't by, I heard Brigadier Townshend, who's the
                                    oldest son of a viscount and never forgets it, say
                                    somethin' about bein' led off on a wild-goose
                                    chase. 'The gineral's health is bad,'
                                    says he; his gineralship, to my mind, isn't a whit
                                    better' I feltmad at
                                    that, for the plain soldiers do be likin' the gineral
                                    wonderful well, in spite of his bad luck, an'
                                    I'd took a fancy to him just as I did to my Lord Howe.
                                    I wanted to tell the brigadier to shut up, but managed to hold
                                    in. By an' by the gineral joined us, an' we
                                    was rowed back to the Sutherland. There the
                                    gineral sent away the officers, but asked me to come into his
                                    cabin.
                              "'Lieutenant Currin,' says he, I want to
                                    find out whether a regiment could climb that cliff back of the
                                    Foulon, an' whether there's any troops on top
                                    of the plateau besides them we saw in the little
                                    camp.'
                              "'Let me have a canoe to-night, Gineral,
                                    an' I'll find out,' says I, for he
                                    looked so pale and friendless like I'd have done
                                    anything for him.
                              "'Egad!' says he, an' I knowed
                                    he was pleased, I thought you had the mettle.'
                              "So he gave me instructions an' arranged the
                                    thing, an' here I am. My canoe's hid in a
                                    thicket just below the Foulon. I'll carry you out to
                                    our vessels, an' it shan't cost you a
                                    sixpence."
                              "Have you finished your mission?" asked Randolph,
                                    upon whose brain was dawning the full significance of his
                                    friend's quest. "'T is a task that
                                    deserves care, for I suspect that much hangs upon the search.
                                    The two of us may be able to perform it better than
                                    one"
                              "I had just begun to examine the plateau when you stumbled
                                    over me. We'll look it all over, an' then take
                                    an obsquint at the camp at the head of the path."
                              Randolph eagerly assented, and together they cautiously scoured the
                                    plateau. Joy at meeting his friend and exaltation at being able
                                    once again to perform a patriotic service gave Randolph the
                                    necessary strength. They followed the plateau on the St. Charles
                                    side until they were close to the city walls, and then came back
                                    on the St. Lawrenceside; but, to
                                    their great satisfaction, they found neither troops nor even
                                    sentinels.
                              "The troops at the head of the path are all there
                                    are," whispered Barnaby. "Now we'll
                                    creep up close an' find out how many there are. Then
                                    we'll be after returnin'."
                              With Barnaby in the lead, they stole toward the camp. Presently
                                    they came in sight of the flickering embers of a dying fire that
                                    cast a feeble light upon a little group of tents that stood near
                                    the brow of the cliff overlooking the St. Lawrence. The camp
                                    seemed wrapped in slumber, and the only sentinels were posted
                                    along the cliff, too far away to discern the two shadowy forms
                                    that crept through the thicket in the rear of the camp to a
                                    point not twenty yards from the fire.
                              From this point of vantage the Virginians counted thirteen tents,
                                    which they judged could not contain more than a hundred men.
                                    Satisfied that they could learn nothing more; they were about to
                                    withdraw when the sentinel at the head of the path challenged,
                                    and two other figures came into view along the cliff top.
                                    Evidently the answers given were satisfactory, for the newcomers
                                    came on almost immediately. Pausing beside the largest tent, one
                                    of them called out. An answer came from within, whereupon the
                                    two moved on to the fire and stood waiting. Presently a man
                                    enveloped in a cloak issued from the tent and approached them.
                                    As the night was chill, he picked up some branches from a heap
                                    of wood and threw them on the fire. The flames blazed up, and
                                    the watchers in the thicket could see the faces of the three
                                    distinctly. The man in the great cloak Randolph recognized as
                                    Captain Vergor, a member of La Grande Société, who four years
                                    before, after a tame resistance, had surrendered Fort Beauséjour
                                    in Acadie to the English. For this he had been tried, but,
                                    thanks to the favor of Vaudreuil and Bigot, had been ac-quitted. But to Vergor neither
                                    of the watchers gave much heed. For the newcomers were none
                                    other than Reparti and Le Chat.
                              "Parbleu! what brings you here at such a
                                    time of night?" demanded Vergor in French.
                              "We have been on an errand to Bougainville's
                                    forces up the river," Reparti replied.
                                    "Vaudreuil fears an attack in that quater and sent me
                                    on tour of inspection."
                              "Was all well?"
                              "Everything. Les Anglais may as well
                                    take ship for home. Quebec is safe for this year."
                              "So think I," said Vergor. "What was the
                                    rumor about more troops being sent to assist me?"
                              Reparti chuckled as if at a pleasant remembrance. "Eh bien,the Marquis de Montcam has a foolish
                                    fear that the enemy may try to climb these cliffs. Bah! an old
                                    woman could beat them back with a broomstick! So he ordered the
                                    battalion of Guienne to march hither. Vaudreuil, as you know,
                                    does not love the general. He countermanded the
                                    order."
                              "He did well," said Vergor. "I need no
                                    assistance. I had a hundred men, but I let those from
                                    Bonaventure go home to care for their harvests. I have now but
                                    thirty, but it is enough."
                              "Ha! ha!" laughed Reparti, "you too have
                                    a farm in Bonaventure, is it not so?"
                              "Yes," admitted Vergor shamelessly.
                                    "They are to gather my crops also. It was on those
                                    terms that I let them go."
                              "You are a man after Bigot's heart!"
                                    exclaimed Reparti. "Mais, mon Dieu,
                                    let us reap while we may!
                              "We had better go now," whispered Randolph.
                                    "In leaving they might stumble upon us."
                              Barnaby did not reply, but raised his rifle and aimed itat the bronze bosom of the Ottawa. For
                                    an instant Randolph did not realize what his comrade was about.
                                    Then with a quick movement, he laid his hand over the firing-pan
                                    of the weapon.
                              "No! no!" he whispered, "you must
                                    come!"
                              Reluctantly Barnaby lowered his rifle and obeyed. Together they
                                    crept noiselessly away from the fire, and presently came out
                                    upon the edge of the cliff two or three hundred yards below the
                                    camp. Beneath them, wrapped in fog, lay the St. Lawrence. In
                                    places the cliff was very precipitous, but just in front of them
                                    projected a sloping spur, thickly covered with trees and bushes.
                                    Down this they began to creep. Dark as it was, they made the
                                    descent with ease; but, in spite of all his care, Randolph
                                    dislodged a stone which, as it plunged downward, made a
                                    distressingly loud noise. But a little brook, swollen by autumn
                                    rains, fell splashing over a rock near by, and this, they hoped,
                                    would deaden the sound. Presently they found themselves at the
                                    foot of the cliff upon a narrow beach. Barnaby led the way to a
                                    thicket, whence he dragged a birch canoe, which they carried
                                    across the beach to the river.
                              Before embarking, Randolph gazed back at the spur down which they
                                    had come.
                              "With no one at the top to oppose them, troops can climb
                                    that safely," he said confidently.
                                    "Don't you think so?"
                              But Barnaby did not answer the question. Instead he shook his fist
                                    wildly in the direction of the camp.
                              "Charles," he demanded fiercely, "why
                                    did n't you let me kill the devil?"
                              "Old friend," said Randolph, laying his hand
                                    soothingly on the other's shoulder, "do you
                                    think I was not as eager for a shot as you? But when the fate of
                                    a Continent hangs in the balance, Revenge must
                                    wait!"
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXXII
                              JAMES WOLFE
                              AFTER they had embarked in the canoe, Barnaby
                                    paddled out into the middle of the river and then turned the bow
                                    upstream.
                              "'T is astrange world we live in,
                                    Charles," he said, in a low voice, as be plied his
                                    paddle against the current. "You an' I have
                                    seen strange sights an' suffered some trials since we
                                    went with Major Washington to Fort Le Bœuf. An' yet it
                                    seems kinder natural that we should be here together. I wonder
                                    often how it'll all end. Sometimes I feel as if I could
                                    scarcely wait."
                              "In prison, Barnaby," said Randolph, "I
                                    gave up hope--but not for long. I resolved that everything must
                                    turn out well for both of us. Somehow I still feel that it
                                    will."
                              "Please God it may!" said Barnaby, in a
                                    half-choked voice.
                              For some time he paddled steadily onward between the two black
                                    blurs that hemmed the river in. Presently they came in sight of
                                    the indistinct outlines of a vessel swinging at anchor in
                                    mid-stream.
                              "'T is the sloop-of-war Hunter," said Barnaby. "'T was
                                    from her I started on the scout."
                              "Ahoy there!" boomed forth the voice of a son of
                                    Neptune. "What boat is that?"
                              Barnaby gave a countersign and paddled alongside. A rope ladder was
                                    lowered to them, and soon they stood upon the deck. Barnaby
                                    explained who Randolph was;and a
                                    petty officer then led the way to a cabin, where the Virginians
                                    turned in and were allowed to sleep undisturbed. Soon after
                                    daybreak they were astir again, and by request joined the
                                    ship's officers at breakfast. There Randolph was
                                    introduced to Captain Smith, a bluff man with the brine of the
                                    sea in his talk, to the officers under him, and to Captain John
                                    Knox of the army, a courteous, well-read gentleman, whose Journal was to give later generations much
                                    of their knowledge of the campaign. In reply to interested
                                    queries, Randolph told the manner of his escape, suppressing,
                                    however, many of the details, for he feared that the story might
                                    leak through to the French lines and bring trouble upon the
                                    heads of his benefactors.
                              "Your health, Captain Randolph!" cried Captain
                                    Smith, when the story finished. "Why, damn my eyes if
                                    ever I heard of such a tale!"
                              When the toast had been drunk, Randolph asked some questions in his
                                    turn. "I have often wondered," he said,
                                    "whether you had serious trouble in coming up the
                                    river. Last winter the French boasted that no English fleet
                                    would ever be able to get up."
                              "Damme, 't was not difficult!" declared
                                    Captain Smith. "When Admiral Durell drew abreast of Bic
                                    with the advance squadron, he enticed French pilots aboard; but
                                    they were little help. We could've got up without one
                                    of 'em. To be sure, there's a variation of
                                    twenty degrees between Louisburg and Quebec and some rather
                                    ticklish cross currents besides a few ledges and shoals. But we
                                    kept sounding boats always ahead and lookout men aloft to watch
                                    the color of the water, and we came through
                                    handsomely."
                              "Tut, tut, Captain Smith!" said Captain Knox
                                    chidingly. "You make mountains into mole-hills. As a
                                    soldier, I have the right to say that the feat was a far greater
                                    one than has so modestly been described. The French pilotswere vastly astonished at the
                                    skill of our seamen. When we neared the Traverses, which is the
                                    worst place, the pilot on the transport I was on, gasconaded at
                                    a great rate. He declared the place would be the grave of the
                                    fleet, and that what vessels escaped would have a dismal tale to
                                    tell in England. He added that he expected that the walls of
                                    Quebec would soon be decorated with our scalps.
                              "'Damn your eyes, you porpuss-faced swab, you
                                    ought to be tucked up to a yard's arm for such
                                    lies!' roared old Killick, the master. 'Damn
                                    my blood, I'll take the vessel through
                                    myself!' He wouldn't let the pilot so much as
                                    say a word, but fixed the mate at the wheel, and then went to
                                    the fo'c'sle with his trumpet. The Frenchman
                                    swore we would be lost, for no ship ever presumed to attempt to
                                    pass through without a pilot. 'Ay, ay, my dear
                                    frog-eater,' growled Killick, 'but
                                    I'll convince you that an Englishman can go where a
                                    Frenchman dare not show his nose.' By watching the
                                    ripple and color of the water, hang me,if he didn't
                                    bring us through without so much as touching a sandbank. The
                                    pilot then said that surely Killick had been up the river
                                    before. When he was told 'No,' he lifted hands
                                    and eyes to heaven and crossed him self the way these popish
                                    rascals have of doing, when they see something they believe is
                                    uncanny.
                              "This, however, was but the beginning of the notable and
                                    important services that have been rendered by Admiral Saunders
                                    and his skillful men," continued Knox. "Twice
                                    the French have endeavored to burn the fleet, but each time our
                                    Jack-tars have foiled their efforts. The last time the enemy
                                    sent down a most formidable fire-craft, which consisted of a
                                    parcel of schooners, shallops, and stages chained together. It
                                    could not have been less than a hundred fathoms in length, and
                                    was covered with grenades, old swivels, gun and pistol barrels
                                    loaded up to theirmuzzles, and
                                    various other devilish inventions and combustible matters. But
                                    this attempt, like the previous one, happily miscarried, for our
                                    gallant seamen, with their usual expertness, went out in small
                                    boats, grappled the raft before it got down above a third part
                                    of the Basin, towed it safe ashore, and left it at anchor to
                                    burn and sputter and eplode as it would. As they were returning
                                    to their vessels I heard one sailor ask his mate:
                                    'Damme, Jack, didst ever take hell in tow
                                    before?'"
                              "Ay, ay," growled Captain Smith pessimistically,
                                    "we have all done our duty this venture, but we have
                                    been unfortunate. 'British colors on every French fort,
                                    post, and garrison in America,' was the toast we drunk
                                    as we sailed out of the harbor of Louisburg; but damn my eyes,
                                    we'll have to bestir ourselves if we're to see
                                    any of it come true. This fleet can't stay in the river
                                    forever with winter coming on."
                              "A few days sometimes work wonders," said Radolph
                                    hopefully. "Gentlemen, let us drink to that toast
                                    now!"
                              And they did it, standing, though it was evident to the Virginins
                                    that the others did so with little confidence.
                              Half an hour later Barnaby and Randolph bade good-by to their
                                    new-found friends and entered a boat which was to carry them to
                                    the ship Sulherland, where Barnaby was to make
                                    his report. It was a dismal, rainy morning; but, between the
                                    gusts of rain, Randolph could see two or three miles down the
                                    river the promontory of Quebec, which he had first beheld twelve
                                    months before, and just opposite it Point Lévis, above which
                                    clouds of white cannon smoke were rising from the English
                                    batteries. Closer at hand, an indentation in the cliff wall on
                                    the northern shore marked the Foulon, while on the southern
                                    shore and somewhat above, at the mouth of the little river
                                    Etchemin, appeared the white tents of a force of English.
                                          Fromtime to time the boat
                                    passed warships and transports, all alive with bluejackets and
                                    redcoats.
                              In the contemplation of these scenes Randolph was suddenly
                                    interrupted by an exclamation from Currin.
                                    "It's losin' my memory I must
                                    be," said the Irishman self-accusingly. "I
                                    have n't once before remimbered that I have a letter
                                    for you, Charles."
                              "A letter? from whom?"
                              "From Colonel Washington. I got it'way back in
                                    June. He was expectin' us to reach Quebec, and wrote me
                                    he thought mebbe I'd get a chanst to deliver it to you.
                                    He's went an' got married."
                              He fumbled in the fold of his hunting-shirt, and presently produced
                                    the letter and handed it to Randolph. Randolph eagerly broke the
                                    seal and read: 
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  "MOUNT VERNON,
                                                                  VIRGINIA,
                                                  27 April, 1759
                                                  
                                                   "DEAR CHARLES--
                                                  I heard with great Concern of your mishap at
                                                  Ticonderoga, and was much rejoiced when the
                                                  welcome news came that you were only slightly
                                                  wounded, had recovered, and had been sent to
                                                  Quebec on Parole. I venture to believe that you will find your
                                                  Stay in that City less intolerable than would some
                                                  Others.
                                                  "As you have doubtless heard long ere
                                                  this, we have at lest, after many Disappointments,
                                                  managed to master Fort Duquesne and scatter the
                                                  hellish Bands who have so cruelly Harried our
                                                  Borders. For a Time, owing to the Dificulties
                                                  attendant upon completing a new Road, it appeared
                                                  as if we would not be able to strike a Blow. When
                                                  we reached Loyal Hanna within fifty Miles of the
                                                  Fort, a Council of War determined that it would be
                                                  inadvisable to attempt to advance further; but at
                                                  this critical Juncture we learned from three
                                                  Prisoners who providentially fell into our Hands
                                                  that the Enemy was very weak, so we marched
                                                  without Tents or Baggage, and with only a light
                                                  Train of Artillery. After letting us get within a
                                                  Day's Muach, the Enemy burned the Fort
                                                  andran away by the
                                                  Light of it. We took Possession and recristened
                                                  the Place Pittsbourgh, in Honour of the Great
                                                  Minister who is doing so much for the Glory of
                                                  Britain. General Forbes, who was frightfully ill
                                                  during most of the Campaign but persevered in
                                                  spite of his Suffering, died soon after here
                                                  turned to Philadelphia.
                                                  "My own Health having long been
                                                  indifferent, the Enemy being at last driven from
                                                  our Border, and I having been elected to the
                                                  Burgesses, I concluded to retire from the Service,
                                                  and did so on reaching Home. On the sixth of
                                                  January I had the Happiness to be married to Mrs.
                                                  Martha Custis, with whom you are acquainted. She
                                                  unites with me in sending warm Regards; and we
                                                  hope that when you return to Virginia, you will
                                                  often honor us by your Presence at Mount
                                                  Vernon.
                                                  "I am sending this in came of
                                                  Lieutenant Currin in the Hope that his General
                                                  will be active enough to enable him to deliver it.
                                                  'The English flag flying above
                                                  Quebec' is a Toast that is frequently
                                                  drunk of late. I trust that the Objects that led
                                                  you and Lieutenant Currin to join the Northern
                                                  Army will be soon and happily realized. Permit me
                                                  to close by saying that if yet another Plantation
                                                  in the County of Fairfax were to have a new
                                                  Mistress this year, it would be very pleasing
                                                  to
                                                  
                                                  "Your warm Friend
                                                  and obedient Servant,
                                                  "GEORGE WASHINGTON."
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              By the time Randolph had finished the letter, the boat had drawn
                                    near a ship-of-the-line with two tiers of black-muzzled guns
                                    frowning from her oaken sides and the flag of a rear-admiral of
                                    the blue flying at her masthead. Soon the Virginians were on
                                    board. The rain had not yet cesed; and a gusty northeast wind,
                                    rushing up between the cliffs that walled the river in, whistled
                                    lugubriously through the rigging and dashed the rain through the
                                    port-holes. A petty officer at once conducted them to a cabin
                                    and knocked on the door. A voice bade them enter; and, with
                                    Barnaby leading, the Virginians stepped inside.
                              
                              Randolph found himself in the presence of a young officer of
                                    perhaps thirty-two, who had just risen from a table upon which
                                    lay scattered a number of maps and papers. His hair was red; his
                                    complexion sandy; his eyes blue; his nose slightly upturned; and
                                    his forehead and chin somewhat receding. A bit of black ribbon
                                    secured his hair in a queue behind; and a scarlet coat, broad of
                                    cuffs and flowing in skirt, covered his slender body, narrow
                                    shoulders, and long thin limbs. On his left arm was a band of
                                    black crape; and about his body, in bandolier fashion, was tied
                                    the silken scarf then worn by officers for use in carrying them,
                                    when wounded, from the field. His look was that of one on whom
                                    some chronic illness had laid its insidious hand; but from his
                                    eyes shone a vigorous and enterprising soul--too strong for the
                                    frail tenement it tenanted.
                              When they first entered, it was evident from the droop of his
                                    shoulders and the cloud on his face that his mood was in accord
                                    with the weather outside; but when his eyes fell upon Barnaby,
                                    he seemed to brighten, and cried:
                              "Egad!LDieutenant Currin, I'm glad to see you
                                    back safely. After you were gone I almost reproached myself for
                                    having sent you on such a dangerous mission. But who is this you
                                    have with you?"
                              "'T is a prisoner I took by the way,"
                                    said Barnaby, without blinking an eyelid.
                              "Indeed! But though he has on some sort of French cloak, I
                                    see that underneath he wears the uniform of a captain of our own
                                    provincial forces."
                              "Faith, Gineral Wolfe, there's no
                                    misleadin' you," replied Barnaby.
                                    "You're right in thinkin'
                                    he's no Frencher. To be plain, he's Captain
                                    Charles Randolph of the Sixtieth Regiment of Royal Americans,
                                    and myimmediate superior officer.
                                    And yet I told the truth. I took him prisoner."
                              "Well, well, that is droll. But explain the
                                    riddle."
                              Barnaby described the meeting on the plateau, the conflict, and the
                                    sudden recognition, not neglecting in skillful asides to mention
                                    some of Randolph's services during the war.
                              "Wonderful! perfectly wonderful!" exclaimed the
                                    young commander in astonishment. "Why, 't is
                                    like a page from Plutarch or the Æneid. Captain Randolph, I heartily congratulate you
                                    upon your escape and am happy to meet you. I have heard your
                                    name before. Some weeks ago, through a mistake, we captured a
                                    number of high-born French ladies, whom as soon as we
                                    conveniently could we sent back under a flag to their relatives
                                    and friends. At a dinner given in their honor a number of them
                                    spoke of you and seemed very eager to learn whether you had
                                    escaped to my army."
                              "I have lain hidden near Quebec," said Randolph.
                                    "I did not attempt to go down the St. Lawrence as they
                                    supposed. Only a long illness has prevented my joining you
                                    sooner. But I am happy that I am here at last, and I hope that I
                                    shall be allowed to take part in the final blow for the capture
                                    of the city."
                              "Gad's life!" cried Wolfe delightedly,
                                    "that is the proper spirit. I like it, I do indeed! I
                                    shall surely see that you have work to do. Having been so lately
                                    a prisoner you would be excusable if you were somewhat chary
                                    about making another venture so soon."
                              "General Wolfe," said Randolph earnestly,
                                    "Lieutenant Currin and I saw this war begin. We were
                                    with Washington when he took Jumonville's party. If you
                                    were to search the colonies through, you could not find two men
                                    more anxious for the capture of Quebec."
                              
                              "Amen to that!" said Barnaby.
                              "Captain Randolph," replied Wolfe, I had
                                    something of your story from the ladies. I know also the wrongs
                                    suffered by Lieutenant Currin. What you say is true, and in a
                                    manner I am not sorry it is so, for I see that I can trust you
                                    both. Lieutenant Currin, what have you to report?"
                              "Gineral Wolfe," said Barnaby, "Captain
                                    Randolph an' me scoured the plateau well-nigh to the
                                    walls of the city, an' there is but the
                                          one post."
                              "And the cliff?" demanded the general with
                                    kindling look.
                              "It can be climbed. Leastways I think so. But here is
                                    Captain Randolph, who knows more of regular operations than I.
                                    Ask him."
                              Wolfe turned questioning eyes upon Randolph.
                              "My friend is much too modest," said Randolph.
                                    "I have been with him since the beginning of the war,
                                    and I have never known his judgment in a matter of this sort to
                                    be in error in the slightest particular. I heartily concur in
                                    his belief that a regiment or an army can scale the cliff with
                                    ease. The undertaking is far less formidable than it looks. Only
                                    the presence of a considerable force at the top could defeat the
                                    attempt. As to the likelihood of them being such a force, I can
                                    add one important detail which Lieutenant Currin, owing to his
                                    inability to understand French, did not discover."
                              He then related in some detail the interview which the two had
                                    witnessed between Vergor and Reparti regarding the number of
                                    Vergor's troops and Vaudreuil's countermanding
                                    Montcalm's order for a battalion to encamp upon the
                                    plateau.
                              As the Virginians told their story, a look of enterprise came into
                                    the young commander's pale face, yet with it was still
                                    mingled something of indecision.
                              
                              "Gentlemen," he said, after a pause, "I
                                    find myself in a somewhat peculiar situation. I see from your
                                    talk that you have penetrated what I may as well admit was a
                                    tentative plan. Under the circumstances it will probably be
                                    safer for me to take you into my confidence fully. And yet not
                                    one of my brigadiers nor other officers dream that I contemplate
                                    such a stroke as you see I do. They are older than I and have
                                    lost confidence in my abilities. Besides, they are so wedded to
                                    conventional warfare that to them such a plan would seem that of
                                    a madman."
                              He paused, and for a minute or two sat bowed forward wrapt in
                                    thought. Then in a measured voice he continued:
                              "As you may have guessed, it was not the expectation of
                                    the government that this army unaided should capture Quebec. We
                                    were to keep the enemy employed while Amherst should march
                                    northward and effect a junction with us. But Amherst, as
                                    Lieutenant Currin reports, can hardly arrive this year. The
                                    result is two alternatives: either to give up in despair and
                                    thereby bring disgrace upon English arms and discouragement to
                                    our brave ally, the king of Prussia, or alone to make a final
                                    desperate attempt to carry a position far stronger than even we
                                    had dreamed. Ten days ago I decided that operations below the
                                    town were hopeless, and transferred much of the army above it,
                                    though endeavoring to mislead the enemy as to my intentions. I
                                    hoped to make a landing at Deschambault or Pointe-aux-Trembles,
                                    but these heavy rains have detained us and have enabled the
                                    French to prepare. Our time is short. We must either strike or
                                    go. Yesterday I thought of the little cove and the path up the
                                    cliff. Captain Randolph, can you see merit in the
                                    plan?"
                              It was a critical moment. Randolph saw that upon the
                                    general's decision hung the fate of the campaign,
                                    perhaps of the war.
                              
                              "In my estimation," he said earnestly,
                                    "the plan you suggest is the only one by which the city
                                    can be taken. As an earnest of my conviction, I ask that
                                    Lieutenant Currin and I be allowed to guide the troops who make
                                    the first attempt. The French are so accustomed to our armies
                                    doing everything by rule that they will never dream of so bold a
                                    stroke. If we gain the plateau, we shall disarrange their plans,
                                    command their communications, and force them to give us battle
                                    on equal terms. A victory will determine the fate of Quebec and
                                    of Canada, for the defenses on that side of the city are weak
                                    and cannot resist our artillery."
                              "Lieutenant Currin," said the general, turning to
                                    the borderer, "I want your opinion also."
                              "'T is the plan an Injun or a Buckskin would
                                    try," said Barnaby eagerly. "'T is
                                    the best plan an English gineral has thought out this war. Try
                                    it, Gineral Wolfe, an' in five days we'll be
                                    in Quebec. An' count me in on leadin' up the
                                    cliff."
                              A glance at the commander's face was sufficient to show
                                    that he was much impressed. Nor was this strange. A plan that he
                                    had evolved had been commended by two men who, though neither
                                    old nor high in rank, had seen much of war, and possessed souls
                                    as ardent as his own.
                              "Almost," he said slowly, as if to himself,
                                    "I am persuaded to make the venture. Shall I? The plan
                                    has many merits. The troops are already properly disposed, and
                                    by a feint Bougainville can be tolled up the river.
                              "But, great God," he cried, springing to his
                                    feet, with a wild light in his haggard face, "it will
                                    be hazardous! If I attempt it and fail, I shall be set down as
                                    the most foolhardy officer who ever commanded a British army. I
                                    know my officers would not approve of it, and my only purpose in
                                    taking them with me yesterday was that they might know the
                                    ground should I decide to make the trial. Yet,dangerous as is the plan, I can think of
                                    none more promising. If I go back empty-handed, I shall be a
                                    ruined man. Mad, the envious said I was, when older men were
                                    passed over and I was sent out, and they will repeat it
                                    jeeringly when I come back discredited. Worse still, another
                                    failure will be added to the long list already made by
                                    Englishmen in this war. The night before I left London I swore
                                    to our great minister that Quebec should be ours. I will not go
                                    back like other unfortunate generals to be exposed to the
                                    censures and reproaches of an ignorant populace. 'T is
                                    true that Amherst has not given us the help we were promised;
                                    't is true that my wretched health might serve as some
                                    excuse; but how can I go back to William Pitt and say:
                                    'I have failed'?
                              "No! no! we must take the city. This plan offers our only
                                    hope, and we will try it. Gentlemen, you shall have the honor
                                    for which you ask and in addition shall serve upon my staff on
                                    the day of battle. Come weal or woe, we will make the venture.
                                    Britannia's banner shall fly above the citadel, or be
                                    trampled in the dust!"1
                              1 In the
                                    previous spring Robert Stobo, who has already been mentioned in
                                    this story, had broken his parole and escaped from Quebec, and
                                    later joined Wolfe's army. In his curious but very
                                    inexact Memoirs, the claim is made that it was
                                    he who pointed out to Wolfe the spot where the where the ascent
                                    was made of the Heights of Abraham. This claim has been accepted
                                    by some writers, and the story has been elaborated until Stobo
                                    is made to lead the army up the cliff and play a part in the
                                    battle. This erroneous idea has been spread broadcast in a
                                    number of romances, in which, under one name or another, Stobo
                                    figures as the hero. It is barely possible that Stobo may have
                                    pointed out the Foulon to Wolfe; but, as a matter of history, he
                                    left Wolfe's army six days before the battle of the
                                    Plains and three days before Wolfe made his reconnaissance of
                                    the landing place. See Stobo's Memoirs and a letter of General Amherst in
                                    Doughty's The Siege of Quebec, vol
                                    VI, p. 44. In his admirable book, The Fight for
                                          Canada, Lieutenant-Colonel Wood characterizes Stobo
                                    as "a disgrace to the Service for breakng his
                                    parole."
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXXIII
                              THE PATHS OF GLORY
                              IT was evening of the day following. Eight bells
                                    were striking on board the Sutherland when a
                                    lithe young man of twenty-four, in the uniform of a naval
                                    lieutenant, climbed the ship's side and entered the
                                    cabin. "Jacky" Jervis he was called by his
                                    fellows then, but for the deeds he afterwards performed he lives
                                    in history as one of England's greatest admirals, the
                                    Earl of St. Vincent.
                              "Egad, Jacky," exclaimed Wolfe affectionately,
                                    springing up and grasping the lieutenant's hand,
                                    "I'm glad to see you."
                              "I was told that you had sent for me," said
                                    Jervis tentatively. "Yes, Jacky, I have a commission I
                                    want some one to undertake, and I know of no one but my old
                                    schoolmate at Swindon's to whom I wish to intrust
                                    it."
                              "Whatever it be, I am yours to command."
                              "'T is somewhat somber in its nature,"
                                    said Wolfe soberly. "To-night we go on a desperate
                                    undertaking. In case I should fall, I want you to see that these
                                    papers come into the proper hands. One is my will; the others
                                    are notes to my relatives and friends."
                              He handed the papers to the lieutenant; then, after a
                                    moment's hesitation, he opened his coat and shirt and
                                    took from next his heart a little square packet, which he
                                    proceeded to open, dislosing to view the dainty miniature of a
                                    girl with luxuriant wavy hair, sweet aristocratic face, and a
                                    full round throat, about which a dark ribbon of velvet was tied
                                    in a graceful bow.
                              
                              "'T is Miss Lowther," said Wolfe, with
                                    feeling. "She is to wed with me if I return. If I do
                                    not, my will provides that the picture is to be set in jewels to
                                    the amount of five hundred guineas and returned to her. I want
                                    you to be my messenger. 'T would be sad to lose her,
                                    for she is sweet and good and fair, yet somehow I feel that she
                                    is not for me."
                              So serious was the young commander that Jervis did not attempt to
                                    make light of his forebodings as figments of the imagination. He
                                    merely said: "If you would wear an old uniform instead
                                    of this splendid new one you have on, which is certain to catch
                                    the attention of the enemy's sharp-shooters, I should
                                    think your chances for surviving were infinitely
                                    better."
                              "'T is not that I wish to appear conspicuous,
                                    Jacky," said Wolfe. "But I feel that it will
                                    encourage the men. God knows they have had enough to shake their
                                    faith in me."
                              "But they are loyal still, God bless them!" said
                                    Jervis, with feeling. "They would undertake to storm
                                    Hades, with you to lead them."
                              All was by this time ready for the execution of the great and
                                    hazardous plan. About nightfall vessels had been sent up the
                                    river as if for an attack on Pointe-aux-Trembles, the object
                                    being to toll the French troops under Bougainville away from the
                                    vicinity of the spot appointed. The siege guns on Point Lévis
                                    were working as usual, and below the city Admiral Saunders was
                                    bombarding the Beauport lines and maneuvering flotillas of boats
                                    as if for a landing. On board the Sutherland
                                    and the vessels lying near her were thirty-six hundred men, and
                                    at Goreham's Post, at the mouth of the Etchemin, lay
                                    twelve hundred more in readiness to be ferried across the river
                                    if the first detachment succeeded in effecting a landing.
                              Time dragged slowly, as it always does on the eve of great
                                    undertakings. But about eleven o'clock seventeenhundred men were quietly
                                    embarked in some large bateaux and other boats lying alongside
                                    the squadron. One bateaux next the Sutherland
                                    must most engage our attention, for in it sat Wolfe and his
                                    staff (including now both Randolph and Currin), Captain Chads,
                                    the naval officer to whom the management of the landing had been
                                    intrusted, and Captain De Laune and twenty-four volunteers who
                                    were to undertake the desperate task of climbing the cliff and
                                    surprising the guard at the top.
                              Presently a single lantern appeared in the main topmast shrouds of
                                    the Sutherland.
                              "'T is the signal for the other boats to draw
                                    abreast of us," whispered Randolph to Barnaby.
                              Through the gloom came the soft splash of oars, and soon the whole
                                    flotilla had reached the rendezvous between the Sutherland and the south shore.
                              "What think you, Captain Chads," asked Wolfe,
                                    when this movement had been executed; "has the tide
                                    begun to ebb?"
                              "Not yet, but we shall not have long to wait,"
                                    was the answer.
                              Half an hour passed; then Chads said to a petty officer who stood
                                    waiting at the rail: "You may raise the other,
                                    Williams."
                              The order was at once obeyed, and a second lantern appeared above
                                    the first.
                              "Give way," said Chads to the oarsmen; and the
                                    boat carrying Wolfe and the forlorn hope began to drop
                                    downstream, followed by the others. Across the river at Cap
                                    Rouge the French sentinels remained blissfully unaware that the
                                    final expedition against the citadel of New France was under
                                    way.
                              Up to midnight the stars had shone clearly, but now the sky was
                                    mercifully overcast, and a favoring southwestbreeze had sprung up. On either side, as
                                    the flotilla dropped quietly down with the ebbing tide, appeared
                                    dimly the precipitous cliffs that hemmed the river in. From far
                                    to the eastward came the roar of the batteries on Point Lévis
                                    and of Saunders' guns as he bombarded the Beauport
                                    lines from vessels lying in the Basin of Quebec, and now and
                                    again a shell trailed like some huge meteor across the heavens
                                    toward the city.
                              For a time all in the foremost boat sat silent, each man communing
                                    with his own thoughts. All felt the strain; all wondered what
                                    the next few hours would bring forth. Presently the melancholy
                                    ideas that oppressed him proved too much for Wolfe to endure in
                                    silence.
                              "Gentlemen," he said, in a deep subdued voice,
                                    "the situation we are in is so novel that one can, I
                                    suppose, be pardoned for having strange thoughts. For the last
                                    hour there has been running through my mind some lines contained
                                    in a poem recently published in a little book given me by a dear
                                    friend just before I left London. I wonder if you know it?
                                    'T is entitled an Elegy Written in a
                                          Country Churchyard; its author is one Thomas
                                    Gray."
                              Verse by verse he recited. The sound of the gently dipping oars and
                                    the soft ripple of the current mingled with his mellow voice but
                                    did not drown it. All listened as does an audience at some great
                                    opera, when the perfect voice of the singer expresses the
                                    supremest emotion in the gamut of passion or of suffering. And
                                    there was not one but remembered to his dying day how the young
                                    commander's feelings mastered him and how his voice
                                    broke as he quoted the immortal stanza:
                              
                              
                                    "'The boast of heraldry, the pomp of
                                          power,
                                    And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave,
                                    Await alike th' inevitable hour:
                                    The paths of glory lead but to the
                                          grave.'"
                              
                              
                              He made no attempt to recite more. "Gentlemen,"
                                    he said, after a pause, "I would rather have written
                                    those lines than take Quebec tomorrow."
                              
                              Out of the blackness ahead loomed the dark outlines of a vessel
                                    lying in the center of the stream.
                              "'T is the sloop Hunter," said Captain Chads, when the foremost
                                    boat was within half a cable's length. "Great
                                    God! what are the crew doing?"
                              "I believe they take us for the enemy," Wolfe
                                    exclaimed, in great alarm. "See, they are running to
                                    quarters and seem to be training guns on us. If they fire, our
                                    enterprise is ruined."
                              "What boats are those?" demanded a hoarse voice
                                    from the Hunter.
                              "British; for God's sake, don't
                                    fire!" cried Chads.
                              "Stand off till I make sure," came the stern
                                    order. "What is the countersign?"
                              "Victory," said Chads quickly.
                              "Come nearer," said the speaker, evidently still
                                    unconvinced.
                              Willingly enough, Wolfe's boat drew alongside.
                                    "We are friends, Captain Smith," called the
                                    commander. "I am General Wolfe. We are on a secret
                                    expedition."
                              "Gad!" exclaimed the Captain. "You had a
                                    close call! I came near giving you a broadside without troubling
                                    to challenge you. I took you for a provision convoy that a
                                    couple of deserters say the French are expecting down the river
                                    tonight."
                              After the boats left the Hunter, it became
                                    necessary for them to steer in toward the north shore in order
                                    not to be swept past their destination.
                              "Qui vive!" sharp and menacing
                                    came a challenge from the darkness at the foot of the cliff.
                              
                              It was a breathless moment. Discovery spelt failure. But there was
                                    in the nearest boat a quick-witted Highland officer who, having
                                    served on the Continent, knew French perfectly. He had also
                                    heard the colloquy with the captain of the Hunter.
                              "France!" he responded without
                                    hesitation.
                              "A quel regiment!" demanded the
                                    voice.
                              "De la Reine," replied the
                                    Highlander, in subdued tones.
                              Probably the sentinel did not hear the answer, for he said:
                                    "Why do you not speak louder?"
                              "Keep quiet, comrade," said the Highlander, still
                                    in French. "These are the provision boats. I fear we
                                    shall be heard."
                              Satisfied with this plausible answer, the sentinel said no more.
                                    Vastly relieved, the English passed on. Randolph and Currin
                                    directed the midshipman at the tiller where to steer, and in a
                                    few minutes Wolfe's boat grated upon the narrow beach.
                                    The general himself was the fist man to spring ashore, closely
                                    followed by Randolph, Currin, and the twenty-four volunteers.
                                    Three light infantry companies under Colonel Howe, brother of
                                    him who had fallen at Ticonderoga, were landed to support the
                                    attempt.
                              The critical moment had now come. Above towered the bold cliff
                                    which must be scaled and mastered. In many hearts were doubs and
                                    misgivings, but two lithe figures stepped to the head of the
                                    volunteers and led the way toward the rocky spur up which the
                                    attempt was to be made. Who were those figures? Who should they
                                    be but those two comrades whom we have followed in hazardous
                                    marches along the Rivière aux Bœfs, beside the swift
                                    Monongahela, and down this very cliff that frowns so blackly
                                    before us? Creeping through the thicket that skirted it, the
                                    party arrived at the foot of the spur.
                              
                              "Take your time, men," said Randolph, in a low
                                    voice. "Keep cool and avoid loose stones. We shall
                                    reach the top with ease."
                              With muskets slung at their backs, the volunteers followed the two
                                    Virginians. Roots, bushes, and the trunks of trees furnished
                                    welcome assistance. Now and again same dislodged rock went
                                    tumbling down the cliff, but the splash of the falls of the
                                    little brook Saint Denis mercifully deadened the noise. In five
                                    minutes Randolph, Currin, and Captain De Laune were on the
                                    summit. The men were following close behind them.
                              From along the cliff came again the challenge: "Qui vive!"
                              "France," said Randolph,
                                    anxious to gain even a minute's delay. Barnaby dropped
                                    back into the shadow.
                              "Le mot d'ordre?"
                              "La victoire" replied Randolph,
                                    mumbling the words so that they were unintelligible. "I
                                    command a relieving party, mon enfant. You may
                                    call off the other guards. We will care for les
                                          Anglais if any come."
                              Fortunately the sentinel was a slow-witted habitant, unaccustomed to the usages of war. Though
                                    still suspicious, he waited until other dark forms began to
                                    appear over the brow of the cliff, and one man, unaware of the
                                    sentinel's proximity, uttered an incautious British
                                    oath.
                              Instantly the sentinel raised his fusil. But before he could fire
                                    there leaped out from behind a neighboring tree an agile form.
                                    The sentinel went to earth with his throat clutched in the iron
                                    grasp of Barnaby Currin. In a minute the astonished man was
                                    bound and gagged.
                              In the time thus gained all the volunteers and part of the light
                                    infantry had reached the summit. Then from further up the cliff
                                    arose the wild shout:
                              "Les Anglais! aux armes! aux armes! les
                                          Anglais!"
                              
                              Two or three shots rang out. The volunteers and Howe's
                                    infantry sprang toward the white tents that were becoming
                                    faintly visible in the increasing morning light. There were
                                    confused cries, a volley of shots, a glimpse of scurrying,
                                    half-dressed forms; and the camp was taken. To the anxious army
                                    below went down a hearty British cheer.
                              Soon the men came swarming up the cliff. The path was cleared. The
                                    remaining troops on the ships--which had dropped down the river
                                    with the tide--and the detachment from Goreham's Post
                                    were landed and likewise climbed the cliff. The Samos battery
                                    above the cove bellowed harshly for a time, but was stormed by
                                    Howe and his light infantry. By a little after sunrise the
                                    British army was drawn up in order of battle on the Heights of
                                    Abraham.
                              At last Fortune had smiled!
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXXIV
                              THE FATE OF A CONTINENT
                              RESPLENDENT in his new uniform and attended by
                                    his staff, including Randolph and Barnaby, General Wolfe was
                                    moving down his line of battle.
                              "Our chance has come," he said exultantly to the
                                    commander of each regiment he passed, "at last we are
                                    where they must fight us! Let every man do his duty, and this
                                    will be a glorious day for England. Double-shot your muskets.
                                    But do not fire until the enemy are within forty paces. After
                                    the first valley, reload, advance twenty pces, fire again, then
                                    charge!"
                              The men caught his spirit. Despite discouraging failures, they had
                                    never yet lost faith in their ardent young leader. Presently a
                                    company of the Forty-seventh struck up to the tune of Lilies of France a song which had been much
                                    heard during the early days of the campaign, but which had
                                    fallen into disuse since the disastrous repulse at the heights
                                    of the Montmorency, where its composer, Sergeant Ned Botwood,
                                    had fallen. Soon the whole battle line was singing:
                              
                              
                                    "Come, each death-doing dog who dares venture his
                                          neck,
                                    Come, follow the hero who goes to Quebec;
                                    Jump aboard of the transports, and loose every sail,
                                    Pay your debts at the tavern by giving leg-bail;
                                    And ye that love fighting shall soon have enough:
                                    Wolfe commads us, my boys, we shall give them Hot Stuff!
                              
                              
                              
                                    "Up the River St. Lawrence our troops shall
                                          advance,
                                    To the Grenadiers' March we will teach them to
                                          dance.
                                    Cape Breton we've taken, and next we will try
                                    At their capital to gve them another black eye.
                                    Vaudreuil, 't is in vain you pretend to look
                                          gruff,
                                    Those are coming who know how to give you Hot Stuff!
                              
                              
                              
                                    "With powder in his periwig, and snuff in his
                                          nose,
                                    Monsieur will run down our descent to oppose;
                                    And the Indians will come: but the light infantry
                                    Will soon oblige them to betake to a
                                          tree.
                                    From such rascals as these may we fear a rebuff?
                                    Advance, grenadiers, and let fly your Hot Stuff!
                              
                              
                                    When the Forty-seventh regiment is dashing ashore,
                                    While bullets are whistling and cannons do roar,
                                    Says Montcalm: 'Those are Shirley's,--I
                                          knew the lapels.'
                                    'You lie,' says Ned Botwood, 'we
                                          belong to Lascelles'!
                                    Tho' our clothing is changed, yet we scorn a
                                          powder-puff;
                                    So at you, ye b----s, here's give you Hot
                                          Stuff!'"
                              
                              
                              While the refrain still rose along the line the ridge ahead began
                                    to be thronged with white uniforms. Randolph looked attentively
                                    at the standard luttering over them, and saw that, in the
                                    language of heraldry, it was quarterly first and fourth feuille-morte, second and third vert; over all a white cross.
                              "Those troops belong to the battalion of Guienne. I
                                    recognize the standard," he said to Wolfe.
                              "Let them come," said the commander gayly.
                                    "I am happy to see them."
                              The white-coated gentry extended themselves along the ridge, but
                                    otherwise made no hostile demonstration. Swarms of Indians and
                                    Canadians soon made their appearance, however, and, creeping
                                    along under cover of the woods and thickets, opened a galling
                                    fusillade on the English wings.
                              At this Barnatby began to grow restive. "If I had myold rifle here," said
                                    he to Randolph, "I would kinder like to mix in
                                    that."
                              "Be patient," said Randolph, laughing,
                                    "'t is not often that one can serve on the
                                    staff of a major-general. For this once you must fight according
                                    to the rules."
                              Presently the firing of these sharpshooters became so heavy that
                                    Wolfe threw out skirmishers to oppose them and ordered the
                                    regiments that were most exposed to lie down. Light showers fell
                                    at intervals, but the men continued in high spirits, and
                                    patiently awaited the event. Meanwhile every eye watched keenly
                                    the crest of the half-way ridge. More columns of regulars and of
                                    motley clothed militia came in sight and deployed. Artillery
                                    began to ply the English lines with grape-shot. At intervals the
                                    solitary English six-pounder that had been dragged up the cliff
                                    bellowed a defiant reply.
                              "'T is evident they mean to fight!"
                                    cried Wolfe delightedly. "We shall not have long to
                                    wait."
                              It was now near ten o'clock. The clouds which hitherto had
                                    obscured the sky were passing away and giving place to a flood
                                    of warm sunshine that lit up the brilliant uniforms and
                                    glittering weapons of the two armies and illumined the gorgeous
                                    crimson, yellow, and purple foliage of the woodlands in the
                                    stupendous amphitheatre in which one of the great scenes of
                                    history was about to be enacted. The plateau on which the armies
                                    stood formed the stage. To the British left, gradually rising
                                    tier upon tier, lay the northern range of the blue pine-clad
                                    Laurentians; while to their right stretched away league upon
                                    league of undulating upland sweeping up to the yet more distant
                                    southern range, whose wider semicircle curved in to meet its
                                    northern counterpart and make the vast mountain ring complete.
                                    Across the arena to the right the great river, full-charged with
                                    Britannia's might, ebbed and flowed past the Rockof Quebec--the bulwark of New
                                    France and the prize of victory!
                              As he watched the enemy's lines Randolph saw ride out from
                                    them, on a splendid black charger, a cavalier wearing a shining
                                    cuirass and the full uniform of a lieutenant-general of the
                                    French king. For some minutes the officer surveyed the English
                                    position, which was only partly visible because of the rough
                                    ground; then he turned and rode slowly down the front of his own
                                    line, brandishing his drawn sword, and apparently calling on his
                                    men to do their utmost. And from the waiting ranks came
                                    thunderous cheers of:
                              "Montcalm! Montcalm! Vive notre général!
                                          Monicalm!"
                              No Roman emperor ever received such a salute from gladiators about
                                    to die. A lump rose in Randolph's throat; he felt
                                    strangely troubled. "Should either leader
                                    fall," thought he, "I shall be sad, for I love
                                    them both!"
                              Before Montalm finished his course, the English line, at an order
                                    from Wolfe, moved forward a hundred paces in order to commit
                                    both armies to close and decisive action. Then, with Randolph
                                    and Currin and other aides, the English general moved once more
                                    along the front of his line.
                              "Be firm, my lads," he kept saying to the men.
                                    "Do not return a shot till they are within forty yards
                                    of your guns. Then you may fire."
                              And as he passed on huzzas that rivaled the cheers which greeted
                                    his great opponent rent the air. Shouldering their muskets, the
                                    men stood as if on parade.
                              The bullets fired by the Canadian and Indian sharp shooters were
                                    now flying thicker than ever, and as Wolfe turned to come back
                                    from the left, one struck him in the wrist. Wrapping a
                                    handkerchief which bore the monogram "K. L."
                                    around the wound, he kept on without a word of complaint. From
                                    behind bushes and knolls, and from the edge of cornfields, puffs
                                    of smoke shot incessantly, formore
                                    than one skilled rifleman had marked the young commander as his
                                    prey. Near the middle of the line Randolph and Barnaby saw him
                                    stagger; but to their anxious questioning he gave no answer,
                                    and, heedless of a bullet in the groin, kept on down the line,
                                    pouring out his spirit in the animated exhortations that spring
                                    from that deep emotion which none but warriors can feel and none
                                    but heroes can utter. At last he took his stand on a little
                                    knoll between the Twenty-eighth and the Louisburg Grenadiers,
                                    whence he commanded a view of nearly his whole line.
                              From this point Randolph and Barnaby saw the enemy sweep proudly
                                    down from the ridge. The French regulars--victors of Oswego, of
                                    William Henry, of Ticonderoga--were in the center; the Canadian
                                    regulars and militia were on the wings. As they moved forward,
                                    the French shouted loudly and waved their weapons. The English
                                    six-pounder, daringly planted in front of the line, plied them
                                    with grape, and the bagpipes of the Highlanders sent back a
                                    shrill defiance; but the English troops stood in ominous
                                    silence, waiting.
                              "There he is!" cried Barnaby, whose keen eyes had
                                    been seeking the approaching array for a hated figure.
                              "Where?" demanded Randolph, with no less
                                    eagerness.
                              Barnaby silently pointed to a gigantic figure that strode ahead of
                                    a battalion of colonial troops, over whom waved a banner which
                                    Randolph recognized as that of Montreal.
                              "Good," said Randolph grimly. "He is
                                    almost opposite us." And he drew his sword.
                              The French advanced rapidly at first; their onslaught bade fair to
                                    be furious. But it was not long before the very silence of their
                                    opponents had its effect. The Canadians had not advanced a
                                    hundred paces when they began to fire without orders, and then
                                    to throw themselves on the ground to reload. These tactics
                                    impeded the advancewithout causing
                                    the British much loss, disorganized the line of battle, and
                                    furnished an opportunity for those who were disinclined to come
                                    to close quarters to slink off and join in the skirmishing
                                    attacks upon the British wings. Randolph and Barnaby saw Reparti
                                    and other officers remonstrating with their followers, but so
                                    averse were the Canadians to fight in the open that they melted
                                    away like snow beneath a summer sun. The battalions of French
                                    regulars kept bravely on, but soon their own ranks broke out in
                                    disorderly long-range firing.
                              Undismayed, the French officers led their men forward, waving their
                                    long espontoons and shouting words of encouragement. Fearful for
                                    their now exposed ranks, the two battalions on the left inclined
                                    to the left, and the three on the right to the right; thus,
                                    split in two, the densely massed French line of battle moved
                                    forward with less assurance toward the waiting lines of British
                                    bayonets. This movement threw the small remnant of Canadians who
                                    had gathered round Reparti further to the English right, and
                                    brought the battalion of Royal Roussillon opposite the knoll
                                    where stood Wolfe and his staff. Rapidly the distance
                                    diminished. Randolph could see the battalion colors of blue,
                                    red, yellow, and green, with white crosses upon which were
                                    embroidered golden fleur-de-lis, and the black three-cornered
                                    hats, red and blue collars, and black stocks of the men. The
                                    surging ranks broke forth in wild bursts of smoke, and now and
                                    again some stricken British soldier sank with clattering gun to
                                    earth. But the British discipline was wonderful. Now the French
                                    were within a hundred yards, yet not a shot had been fired by
                                    that grim battle line. Eighty yards . . . sixty . . . fifty . .
                                    . forty-five . . . forty . . .
                              "Fire!" rang out the voice of Wolfe.
                              The British muskets rose, and there thundered forth avolley so perfectly delivered that it
                                    sounded like a cannon shot. Again, with the precision of
                                    clock-work, the well-drilled men reloaded and moved twenty paces
                                    forward. The dense smoke of the first volley had lifted
                                    somewhat, disclosing a scene of havoc. Again belched forth a
                                    terrible volley. The French went down by hundreds. Their ranks
                                    began to crumble.
                              "Charge!" shouted Wolfe, springing in front of
                                    the Louisburg Grenadiers.
                              The English regiments gave a mighty cheer and dashed in with the
                                    bayonet; the Highlanders shouted their fierce slogan and fell to
                                    with the claymore. Some brave Frenchmen endeavored to stem the
                                    rush, but not many. Most who had not fallen raised the sauve qui peut!
                              
                              
                                    "When the Forty-seventh regiment is dashing
                                          ashore,
                                    While bullets are whistling and cannons do roar,
                                    Says Montcalm: 'Those are Shirley's,--I
                                          know the lapels.'
                                    'You lie,' says Ned Botwood, ' we
                                          belong to Lascelles'!
                                    Tho' our clothing is changed, yet we scorn a
                                          powder-puff;
                                    So at you, ye b----s, here's give you Hot
                                          Stuff!'"
                              
                              
                              Randolph and Barnaby were dashing madly forward with the grenadiers
                                    in the hope of meeting Reparti. But the longed for encounter
                                    which a few minutes before had seemed probable had been rendered
                                    impossible by the split in the French line. The few Montreal
                                    militia who advanced in the final charge were thrust far aside
                                    toward the river by the battalion of Royal Roussillon. Before
                                    this battalion gave way, the militia fled from the field,
                                    bearing Reparti with them. Balked of their hoped for prey, the
                                    disappointed Virginians fought in the mêlée
                                    with whomever opposed them, and came presently upon two British
                                    grenadiers thrusting savagely at a young oficer who was
                                    defending himself with his sword. The combat was too unequal to
                                    be long maintained. One of the grenadiers ran his bayonetthrough the officer's
                                    left arm; the other was about to give a finising thrust, when
                                    Randolph caught the musket.
                              "Yield, Lieutenant Lusignan, for the sake of those who
                                    love you!" he cried.
                              Relutantly the young officer gave up his weapon. "Mon Dieu! I may as well," he said
                                    bitterly, "for the day is lost."
                              It was true. The whole French army was a disorderly mob flying
                                    wildly for safety, and from all parts of the field arose the cry
                                          "Miséricorde!" In five minutes the fate of a continent had been
                                          decided!
                              With Barnaby's assistance, Randolph helped Lusignan back
                                    from the shambles toward the rear. They had not gone far ere
                                    they came upon a little knot of men gathered round a prostrate
                                    form lying upon the coat of a grenadier.
                              "Who is it?" asked Randolph, but even as he
                                    uttered the words he saw the officer's face--and it was
                                    the face of him who but a few hours before had said:
                                    "The paths of glory lead but to the
                                    grave."
                              "He was struck just as the charge began," said
                                    Captain Curry of the Twenty-eighth. "The wound is
                                    mortal."
                              A surgeon was doing what he could, but the young general's
                                    head was sunk forward on his breast, and in his unseeing eyes
                                    was that glassy look that accompanies dissolution.
                              Suddenly, from a little knoll in front, some one shouted:
                                    "See how they run!"
                              "Who run?" asked Wolfe, rousing himself.
                              "The French, sir. Egad, they have given way every
                                    where!"
                              "Go, one of you, to Colonel Burton," said the
                                    dying man; "tell him to march Webb's regiment
                                    down to Charles River to cut off
                                    their retreat from the bridge. Now--God be praised--I will die
                                    in peace!"
                              A moment more and his soaring spirit took its flight.
                              
                              At almost the same moment Montcalm, mortally stricken and supported
                                    in the saddle by two grenadiers, entered Quebec through the St.
                                    Louis gate. "Oh, Mon Dieu! Mon
                                    Dieu!" screamed some frightened women,
                                    "the marquis is killed!" "It is
                                    nothing, it is nothing," he said reassuringly.
                                    "Do not grieve for me, mes bonnes
                                          amies."
                              He was taken to a house, where the surgeon who examined his wounds
                                    told him that he could not live beyond the morning. "So
                                    much the better," said the dying soldier. "I
                                    am happy that I shall not see the surrender of Quebec."
                                    To his secretary he confided messages to each of his beloved
                                    family in far away Candiac, arranged that his papers should be
                                    delivered to his friend Lévis, and devoted his last hours to
                                    preparing for the death that a little before dawn came to his
                                    relief. All was confusion in the city, but an old man called
                                    "Bonhomme Michel" contrived to fashion a rude
                                    coffin out of a few boards; and when evening fell, a little
                                    procession composed of the commandant and officers of the
                                    garrison, citizens, and sorrowing women and children followed
                                    the coffin in dismal silence through gloomy streets, lined with
                                    shattered houses and fallen walls, to the chapel of the
                                    Ursulines. There, in the pale light cast by a few torches, the
                                    priests murmured the Libera Me, Domnine, in
                                    which the nuns behind the grating joined with trembling voices.
                                    Then the body of the greatest general and noblest gentleman who
                                    had ever served New France was laid to rest in a grave that had
                                    been partly hollowed out by the bursting of a shell. Again had
                                    the saying been fulfilled: "La guerre est
                                          Ie tombeau des Montcalm."
                              Thus, one in victory and the other in defeat, died glori-ously the two heroes of this
                                    great war. Posterity has paid equal honors to both. In the
                                    governor's garden at Quebec stands today a shaft of
                                    stone fittingly erected as a single great memorial and typical
                                    of the feeling with which each is regarded. On one side is the
                                    single word "Montcalm"; on the other,
                                    "Wolfe"; while on the pedestal is carved:
                              
                              
                                    MORTEM VIRTUS COMMUNEM
                                    FAMAM HISTORIA
                                    MONUMENTUM POSTRITAS
                                    DEDIT
                              
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXXV 
                              SÀKI ONCE MORE
                              DARKNESS had fallen upon the battlefield. The
                                    wounded had been cared for; some of the dead were buried. The
                                    victors were fortifying the blood-drenched plateau and bringing
                                    up reinforcements and artillery from the ships below. On the
                                    cliff overlooking the valley of the St. Charles, Randolph and
                                    Currin were laboring like common soldiers helping to construct a
                                    redoubt. The first elation of victory had passed, and each was
                                    silently wondering whether the events of the day would assist in
                                    the accomplishment of what he had most at heart. The
                                    swift-spreading news of Montcalm's fall had reached
                                    them; and, knowing how the stricken general had held Reparti and
                                    La Grande Société in check, Randolph dreaded what might happen
                                    to Alfrede now that her protector was powerless and dying.
                              Into the fierce glare of light from the fire that blazed beside the
                                    redoubt strode a sergeant and two soldiers leading an Indian
                                    squaw.
                              "Captain Randolph," said the sergeant,
                                    "this woman was caught skulking near one of the
                                    outposts at the foot of the cliff. She says she was seeking
                                    you."
                              Randolph stepped closer and looked at her curiously. He saw first
                                    that she was young and handsome, but that there was a trace of
                                    that harshness of expression that comes prematurely to all
                                    Indian women.
                              
                              "Mon Dieu!" he exclaimed, with
                                    a start of surprise. "I have seen you before, I think.
                                    Are you not the girl who, beside the Rivière aux Bœufs, warned
                                    us of the capture of Mademoiselle de Saint-Pierre?"
                              "Yes," said the squaw, also in French.
                              "How do you come here?"
                              She drew a step nearer. "I wished to give you another
                                    warning. The White Lily is again in peril."
                              "How do you know this?" demanded he, paling.
                                    "Why do you warn us?"
                              "Listen," she answered. "Once Captain
                                    Repardi loved Sàki, and she bore him a son." Her eyes
                                    glowed momentarily with a tender light, then grew hard again.
                                    "But he saw the White Lily and tired of his wilderness
                                    mate. The Lily cared not for him. He planned to capture her, but
                                    you foiled him. Those warriors whom you slew were not Iroquois,
                                    but Ottawas dressed as children of the Long House. His failure
                                    did not cool his passion, and ever since he has striven to
                                    possess her. Two years ago he left Sàki in the region of the
                                    lakes and came to Quebec. Last winter was a hard one in the
                                    wigwams, monsieur. Sàki had no warrior to hunt for her. Her son
                                    died of starvation."
                              "What a devil!" cried Randolph fiercely.
                              "A month ago Sàki started for Quebec, thinking perhaps he
                                    had not known what she had suffered--that be would take her back
                                    into his wigwam. Four hours ago she saw him. She told him of his
                                    son's death. He cared not. When she came close to him,
                                    he pushed her from him. He called her 'une
                                          peau rouge.' He said that tonight he would
                                    be lord of a woman of his own color. More than that he did not
                                    tell her, but from an Ottawa she learned the plan. The Lily is
                                    in the château with none to defend her. At midnight he and Le
                                    Chat, with a score of the sachem's band, will seize
                                    her. Montcalm is dying, and there is none nowwhom Reparti has need to fear. At last
                                    he can work his will."
                              Randolph's face had grown ashen. "He shall
                                    not!" he cried. "By the eternal God, he shall
                                    not! Barnaby, come with me."
                              Five minutes later the two Virginians stood before Brigadier
                                    Townshend, who, owing to the death of Wolfe and the disabling of
                                    Monckton by a severe wound, now commanded the English army. To
                                    him Randolph told the news Sàki had brought, inwardly dreading
                                    lest the commander would refuse the request he was about to
                                    make. But for once the haughty son of a viscount was
                                    graciousness itself.
                              "Captain Randolph," he said, "the whole
                                    army is under deep obligations to you and Lieutenant Currin, and
                                    we should be ungrateful indeed if we did not seize upon such an
                                    opportunity to repay them. I am yours to command. Name anything
                                    not incompatible with the safety of the army."
                              "With your permission, then," said Randolph
                                    hurriedly, "Lieutenant Currin and I will go at once.
                                    Let a company of rangers follow aong the Lorette road to the La
                                    Vallière château. Some of the captured Canadians can be made to
                                    guide them. For your kindness, I thank you. And, for
                                    God's sake, have the rangers hasten!"
                              Without ceremony he turned, and, with Barnaby at his heels, hurried
                                    off toward the northern edge of the plateau.
                              "Hold a minute, Charles," Barnaby exclaimed,
                                    before they had gone far. "We'll need some
                                    better weapons than these cheese toasters that ain't
                                    good for nothin' but gettin' between your legs
                                    an' trippin' you up. I know whene some good
                                    rifles can be got." So saying, he led the way to a tree
                                    beneath which was piled a varied assortment of weapons that had
                                    been picked up from the field of
                                    battle. Disdainfully throwing aside the ordinary fusils, he
                                    selected two superb riles that had evidently belonged to
                                    Canadian sharpshooters. Two full powder-horns and two pouches of
                                    bullets completed their equipment.
                              "Now," said the Irishman, shaking his weapon with
                                    satisfaction, "I feel at home again. Before that
                                    one-eyed divil gits Miss Saint-Pierre there'll be some
                                    doin's! Lead on, Charles."
                              Randolph did not dare enter the road near the city, for he judged
                                    that it was probably still guarded by parties of the enemy.
                                    Instead, he determined to follow as nearly as might be the route
                                    he had taken the night of his escape to the fleet. He led the
                                    way down the edge of the plateau, passed through the line of
                                    pickets, and plunged into the woods. They had not gone far when
                                    Barnaby plucked his companion by the sleeve.
                              "Ain't that a man?" he whispered,
                                    pointing to a form that lay prostrate in a starlit glade.
                              They were too close to retreat unperceived. With weapons at the
                                    ready, they crept to the edge of the glade. The figure did not
                                    move. After watching it for a few moments, Randolph stepped
                                    forward and touched it.
                              "He will give us no trouble, poor fellow!" he
                                    said "'T is some Canadian, mortally stricken,
                                    who crawled here to die."
                              Leaving the dead man staring with glassy eyes up toward the stars,
                                    they hastened on. Their feet rustled among the fallen autumn
                                    leaves, and once a covey of ruffed grouse rose with a great
                                    whirring of wings out of a clump of firs through which they were
                                    hurrying. From the direction of the St. Charles came confused
                                    sounds as of many men on the march, for, though they knew it
                                    not, the French army, seized by panic, was deserting the
                                    Beauport lines and leaving Quebec to its fate.
                              
                              "Do you think we shall be in time?" gasped
                                    Barnaby, hard put to it to keep up.
                              "We must! we must!" said Randolph fiercely.
                                    " Hurry!"
                              Impatient as they were, it seemed an age before they at last
                                    emerged from the forest upon the road. They had hardly entered
                                    it when a sharp challenge rang out in front of them.
                              "Back to the woods!" whispered Randolph.
                              Turning about, they dashed with lowered heads back into the cover
                                    of the trees. A dozen guns roared after them; as many bullets
                                    sang spitefully over their heads to bury themselves in the tree
                                    trunks. But, untouched, the Virginians plunged onward, and soon
                                    distanced pursuit. Bearing westward, they presently entered the
                                    road again, and this time found it unoccupied. Progress now was
                                    more rapid; and, running at full speed, they drew near the
                                    scattered cabins of the seigniory. All were in darkness. They
                                    passed the cabins unobserved; they passed the stone mill; they
                                    appoahed the château. Were they in time? It was not yet
                                    midnight; but perhaps Reparti, in his impatience, had come
                                    earier. Randolph felt sick with dread.
                              Presently they reached a point from which they commanded a view of
                                    the front of the château. A light shone from one of the lower
                                    windows. Creeping up to the window, Randolph peered in. And, to
                                    his infinite relief, he saw Alfrede, Toinette, and old Jeanne.
                                    He rapped on the door. It was opened. In a moment more he was in
                                    the room with Alfrede in his arms.
                              As she lifted her face to his, he saw that she had been
                                    weeping.
                              "Oh," she cried, "is it true there has
                                    been a battle? That the English are victorious? That Montcalm is
                                    dying?"
                              "It is all true, sweetheart," he said sadly.
                                    "Your friend and mine has fallen."
                              
                              As he said the words, he saw the anxious look on
                                    Toinette's face.
                              "Lieutenant Lusignan was slightly wounded and was captured
                                    while fighting desperately," said he. "He is
                                    in no danger."
                              "Captain Randolph saved your beau's life,
                                    miss," said Barnaby, seeing at a glance how matters
                                    stood and being anxious that his friend should lose none of the
                                    credit due him.
                              "Nonsense, Barnaby!" said Randolph. "One
                                    good turn deserves another, mademoiselle. As for good
                                    Gerard," he continued, turning to Jeanne, "his
                                    battalion was not engaged, so he is safe."
                              "How do you come here?" asked Alfrede, for the
                                    first time making a feeble effort to free herself from his
                                    embrace.
                              "To save you from great danger. Captain Reparti and a
                                    score of savages are to be here at midnight to carry you
                                    off."
                              The women's faces paled.
                              "Not an instant is to be lost. A company of rangers is to
                                    follow us, but it will be some time before they can arrive. It
                                    would be hopeless to try to run away; the savages would track us
                                    down like hounds. We will take refuge in the mill and beat them
                                    off till help arrives. You must come at once."
                              Catching up a cloak that lay on a couch near by, he wrapped it
                                    about Alfrede and led her out of the château. The others
                                    followed. The distance to the mill was short, but it seemed to
                                    all that a long time elapsed before they covered it. More than
                                    once black shadows that seemed to move like the forms of
                                    stealthy savages set even Barnaby's heart to thumping
                                    wildly against his ribs. But at last they reached the mill in
                                    safety. Toinette opened the great oaken door; they stepped
                                    inside.
                              
                              "At least we are where we can defend ourselves,"
                                    said Randolph, in a tone of vast relief.
                              While Barnaby was inspecting their fortress, Randolph said to the
                                    women: "Are there no men on the seigniory whom we could
                                    trust?"
                              "Some returned this afternoon bringing news of the
                                    battle," said Toinette. "But such was their
                                    terror of the English that the village is now practically
                                    deserted. Only three censitaires remain:
                                    Pierre Michaud, who is the oldest man on the seigniory; Henri Du
                                    Some, who is just recovering from a wound; and Jacques
                                    Marinette, the fat lazy fellow who tried last autumn to evade
                                    paying his cens at rente. I would not trust
                                    him, but I would the others. Pierre would perhaps be of little
                                    assistance because he is so old, but Henri doubtless would be.
                                    His mother, Suzanne, is forever telling about the sovereign you
                                    gave her. I feel sure that in such a cause Henri would serve
                                    under you."
                              "I will go and rouse them," volunteered Jeanne.
                                    "Reparti would not be likely to harm me."
                              She unbarred the door and went out. When she was gone, Randolph and
                                    the two girls joined Barnaby in surveying the mill and in
                                    blocking up some windows in the lower story. By the time this
                                    work was completed, Jeanne returned, bringing with her Pierre,
                                    Henri, and old Suzanne. Both censitaires
                                    carried guns.
                              "We will do what we can to help you,
                                    m'sieu'," said Pierre to Randolph.
                                    "Even in old France the Michauds were loyal to the
                                    family of La Vallière as against all other authority. Twice have
                                    I stood within this mill and helped to beat off the Iroquois
                                    wolves. Though I am anold man, I have strength enough for one
                                    more fight."
                              "Yes, m'sieu'," echoed Henri;
                                    "you were kind to my old mother. You are a good man,
                                    though a Bostonnais. We will stand by you."
                              
                              Randolph thanked them and explained his plan of defense. The women
                                    were to remain on the ground floor, where they would be out of
                                    reach of bullets. Pierre and Henri were also to stay on this
                                    floor and be ready to fire out of the loop holes near the door.
                                    Randolph and Barnaby were to take their stations on the fat
                                    roof, where they would be protected by the battlements and
                                    whence they could survey the ground around the mill.
                              "The plan is well enough," said Barnaby, when
                                    Randolph had finished, "but that barn must not be left
                                    standing."
                              As he spoke he pointed to a log structure that stood about one
                                    hundred yards down the slope in front of the mill.
                              "What do you propose?" asked Randolph.
                              "I'll hide in the barn. When the Injuns come,
                                    I'll fire it an' scoot back to the
                                    mill."
                              "Why not fire it now?"
                              "Because we'll want the light to shoot by. The
                                    buildin' might burn down afore they come."
                              Randolph acquiesced. Barnaby opened the door and slipped out. When
                                    he was gone, Randolph climbed to his own station. He had scarely
                                    stepped out on the roof when Alfrede and Toinette appeared at
                                    the head of the stairs behind him.
                              "We want to be up her, too," explained Alfrede,
                                    when he began to remonstrate. "At least let us stay
                                    till the enemy appear."
                              Unable to resist such an appeal, he led them to a sheltered corner
                                    where they sat down on a ledge of stone. He followed their
                                    example, and, after taking possession of one of
                                    Alfrede's hands, began his watch.
                              From their elevated position they commanded a dim view of the
                                    château, the village, and the valley that lay below. Through the
                                    open door of the barn they caught a glimpse of Barnaby striking
                                    a light with flint and steel; then
                                    the door closed, and they saw him no more. The splash of the
                                    little stream which furnished power for the mill drowned the
                                    fainter noises of the night; but they heard a cock crow in the
                                    village, then another and another. Everything seemed peaceful.
                                    Surely it was impossible that terrible danger hung imminent.
                              But presently from one side of the château they heard the fearsome
                                    hoot of an owl. An answering hoot came from the side opposite.
                                    And, straining their eyes through the gloom, the watchers on the
                                    mill saw a procession of stealthy forms, led by one of enormous
                                    size and height, glide in single file across an open space
                                    toward the château.
                              Randolph felt the grasp upon his hand tighten.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXXVI
                              THE STONE MILL
                              FROM the château resounded the crash of bursting
                                    doors, and then a chorus of hideous disappointed yells. Half a
                                    dozen dark forms came yelping toward the mill. Looking down at
                                    the barn, Randolph saw through a chink in the logs a little
                                    burst of flame; but, to his surprise and alarm, Barnaby did not
                                    issue from the door. He had almost decided to hurry out to his
                                    comrade's assistance when from the barn came the report
                                    of a rifle. The foremost warior fell headlong. Taken unawares
                                    and not knowing what enemy they had to contend against, his
                                    companions threw themselves flat upon the ground and crept away
                                    like so many snakes. Almost instantly the door opened, and
                                    Barnaby sprang out and raced toward the mill. As the barn was
                                    between him and the Savages he made the passage safely. Inside
                                    the door, he turned, and shouted exultantly:
                              "Come on, ye bloody divils; come on an' be
                                    kilt!"
                              In a minute more he had joined Randolph.
                              "When I got the rifles, didn't I say
                                    there'd be some doin's? he exclaimed.
                                    "There's one less of the critters to bother
                                    us."
                              "Did you fire the barn?" asked Randolph.
                              "Yes, I touched off a lot of hay. Don't you see
                                    that little puff of smoke? Nothin' could save the
                                    buildin' now."
                              Randolph turned to Alfrede and Toinette. "Don't
                                    you think you had better go below?" he asked.
                              "Oh, let us stay up here with you!" begged
                                    Alfrede. "I feel safer here than down there in the
                                    darkness."
                              
                              Toinette also pleaded to be allowed to remain.
                              "What do you think about their staying, Barnaby?"
                                    asked Randolph doubtfully.
                              "Let 'em stay," said the Irishman
                                    promptly, well knowing that his answer would please all
                                    concerned. "If they'll sit in that corner
                                    an' promise not to stand up, I can't see but
                                    they'll be as safe here as anywhere. Besides, if the
                                    lower floors should be taken, we'll be able to hold out
                                    a while up here."
                              "Thank you, Lieutenant Currin," said Alfrede
                                    gayly, in spite of the danger that menaced. "Since our
                                    first meeting I have always considered you a gentleman of great
                                    judgment and discrimination."
                              There was no time for more such byplay. Attracted by the shot and
                                    by their companions' yells, the whole wild crew about
                                    the château came whooping toward the mill, their forms dimly
                                    discernible through the gloom. Stopping out of effective range,
                                    they let fly a fusillade of bullets which pattered harmlessly
                                    against the stone walls. The defenders did not deign a
                                    reply.
                              "They'll be a long time liftin' our
                                    scalps at that rate," said Barnaby. "The
                                    longer they wait to begin serious diviltry the better for us.
                                    That barn'll throw a prime shootin' light
                                    afore long."
                              Evidently the enemy realized this, for presently they could be hear
                                    hacking at the logs on the farther side of the barn as if trying
                                    to effect an entrance and extinguish the flames. It was a
                                    useless effort. The hay and other provender in the building
                                    burned like tinder; little tongues of fire began to dart through
                                    the thatch. Soon a great sheaf of flame was shooting high in the
                                    air, lighting up the ground in front of the mill almost as if it
                                    were day.
                              Meanwhile the besiegers surrounded the mill, and from the shelter
                                    of trees, rocks, and bushes opened anotherfusillade. But Randolph and Barnaby sat
                                    silently watchful, while Henri and old Pierre were far too
                                    experienced to waste a shot when there was no mark at which to
                                    aim.
                              At intervals between the reports there came to the besiegers from
                                    higher up the hill behind the mill the sound of chopping. Then a
                                    tree fell.
                              "That means real mischief," whispered Barnaby.
                                    "They're makin' a ram to break the
                                    door in with."
                              "I fear you are right," said Randolph.
                                    "Can you think, of anything we ought to
                                    do?"
                              "Don't the Old Testament say somethin'
                                    about a certain woman of Thebes castin' a piece of
                                    millstone down on Abimelech's head and
                                    breakin'his skull? I 'm not strong on the
                                    Scriptures, but I 'll swear it does. Why not take a
                                    leaf out of the book of Judges?"
                              Randolph at once grasped the idea and approved it. Descending the
                                    stairs to the first floor, the two found some heavy beams, which
                                    they carried to the top and piled along the battlement
                                    immediately over the doorway. Anxious to help, Alfrede and
                                    Toinette, assisted by Jeanne and even old Suzanne, brought up
                                    numerous lighter missiles.
                              When a considerable supply of such weapons had been accumulated,
                                    the work was brought to a halt by the appearance of a dozen
                                    warriors bearing the long stem of a slender pine. Just outside
                                    of effective rifle range they came to a pause. Then from a
                                    little ravine at one side of the mill a voice called:
                                          "Messieurs les Bostonnais, we
                                    have you in a trap. All that remains is to open the door and
                                    take you out. We know there are but two of you besides Henri and
                                    Pierre, for I saw you come. Surrender, and you shall be well
                                    treated. We number thirty men, and others are
                                    coming."
                              "'T is Jacques Marmette," exclaimed
                                    Toinette. "The wretch!"
                              
                               "We do not negotiate with underlings," called
                                    Randolph. "You are wasting breath. Let your leader
                                    talk."
                              "Nom de Dieu! you shall hear
                                    him," came Reparti's deep voice. "At
                                    last, Captain Randolph, I have you."
                              "There is a fable about catching one's hare,
                                    Captain Reparti," shouted Randolph, not unwilling to
                                    gain time by parley.
                              "Never fear, I shall catch teh hare--and cook him
                                    too!" cried the Frenchman, laughing diabolically.
                                    "Already the fire is lighted. Only one thing can save
                                    you. Surrender the women, and you shall go free."
                              "Tell him to go to the divil" whispered
                                    Barnaby.
                              "You are very modest in your demands," called
                                    Randolph sneeringly. "But our answer is: came and take
                                    them. This mill has withstood the onslaughts of Iroquois more
                                    genuine than those we slew when we rescued Mademoiselle de
                                    Saint-Pierre on the Rivière aux Bœufs. Bring on your
                                    bloodhounds! Do your utmost! We are ready!"
                              "Blood of God!" shrieked Reparti, enraged beyond
                                    measure by the allusion to how he had been foiled, and by the
                                    knowledge that the secret was at last discovered. "You
                                    shall wear a necklace of red-hot hatchets. Your eyes shall be
                                    burned out with lighted splinters. Le Chat shall use all the
                                    refinements of which he is master. En avant, mes
                                          enfants!"
                              At his last words the warriors took up their battering ram and
                                    moved slowly toward the mill.
                              "How much do you think the door will stand?"
                                    asked Randolph, in a low voice of Barnaby.
                              "Not much, I'm fearin'. 'T is
                                    thick enough, but 't is an old one. If we can help it,
                                    they must n't touch it. We must each pick out a man
                                    an' get him. That log's heavy; an' if
                                    three or four at the front end are laid out, the
                                    rest'll have more'n they'll want to
                                    stagger under,"
                              
                              "Pierre," called Radolph to the defenders below,
                                    "they're coming. You take the foremost. Henri,
                                    take the second. You shall each have five hundred francs if you
                                    hit your man. If they break in, come up to us."
                              "Oui, monsieur le capitaine, we are
                                    ready," came their answer.
                              "You take the third, Charles. I'll answer at the
                                    last day for the fourth," said Barnaby.
                              "Is there nothing we can do to help?" asked
                                    Alfrede anxiously.
                              "You may pray for us all, if you will, dear,"
                                    said Randolph tenderly. "But do not feel afraid. We
                                    shall beat them back. This is plain sailing compared with last
                                    winter in Quebec."
                              The girls knelt on the hard stone roof. And, amid the whoops of the
                                    oncoming savages, their fresh young voices rose to heaven in
                                    heartfelt appeal to the God of Battles.
                              Soon the attacking party were within a hundred yards. Their painted
                                    bodies and barbaric ornaments glistened in the firelight.
                                    Pointing the butt of the tree full at the door, they dashed
                                    forward. Those not engaged in the attempt shouted wildly and
                                    fired at the loopholes.
                              When they were within forty yards, old Pierre's rifle
                                    spoke. The foremost warrior staggered to one side and sat down.
                                    Almost instantly Henri fired, and the second fell headlong.
                                    Randolph and Barnaby were equally successful with the third and
                                    fourth. The fifth savage, fearing that his turn would come next,
                                    let go his hold and sprang back. As the defenders had hoped, the
                                    heavy butt, being no long"r supported, fell to the
                                    ground. At this, the whole party dropped the log and fled wildly
                                    for cover.
                              "Bravo!"cried Randoph. "Henri and
                                    Pierre, you shall have the reward, and as much more for each one
                                    you bring down."
                              
                              "'T was well done all around--not least of all
                                    the prayin'," said Barnaby gallantly, as he
                                    primed his rifle. "But one lesson'll not be
                                    enough. See that red snake that fell first tryin' to
                                    crawl off! Shall I give him another ball?"
                              "Let him go," said Randolph. "He can
                                    harm us no more."
                              The besiegers now ceased firing and were evidently in consultation.
                                    Presently the sound of chopping could be heard again.
                              "They're cuttin' another ram,"
                                    said Barnaby. "This time it'll not be so hefty
                                    a one."
                              "The rangers ought to be coming soon," said
                                    Randolph.
                              "They'll be comin' far slower than we
                                    did," returned Barnaby. "Miss Saint-Pierre,
                                    Charles ran so fast comin' that I pretty nigh busted my
                                    lungs tryin' to keep up, an' both sides of the
                                    road belonged to me. I'm not certain yet whether it was
                                    wantin' to see you or save you that made him in such a
                                    rush. I would n't blame him a bit if it was the
                                    first--considerin' the warmth of his
                                    welcome."
                              "Lieutenant Currin," said Alfrede,
                                    "Captain Randolph told me long ago that you were an
                                    unmitigated tease. Now I know that he spoke the
                                    truth."
                              Barnaby laughed heartily. "He most always does--when he
                                    ain't lyin'," he said.
                                    "Charles," he continued, shrewdly anxious to
                                    turn the thoughts of the girls from the horrors that surrounded
                                    them, "do you be after remimberin' the time
                                    you stopped at my cabin an' I reminded you of the girl
                                    you kipt twistin' your blessed neck off to see the last
                                    of at Fort Le Bœuf?"
                              "I believe I have some remembrance of the
                                    circumstance," Randolph admitted somewhat
                                    unwillingly.
                              "An' do you be after remimberin' me
                                    tellin' you to say the word when you wanted to elope
                                    an' I'd be the man to help you? Well, the only
                                    time you got a chance you refused;
                                    an' you've been repentin' in
                                    sackcloth an' ashes ever since. But I've
                                    helped to rescue the lady twice now. Won't that about
                                    square the account?"
                              "I shall never feel that the account is square, old
                                    friend, until we've found your boy," said
                                    Randolph warmly.
                              "Yes, indeed, Lieutenant Currin," cried Alfrede,
                                    " we will do all we can. No trouble nor expense shall
                                    be spared. I know that we shall find him."
                              "God bless you both for them kind words!" said
                                    Barnaby feelingly. "'T is enough to keep
                                    one's hope alive when he has such friends. But look
                                    yonder!" And he pointed to a party of warriors who had
                                    just come in sight bearing another log.
                              "You were right, Barnaby," said Randolph
                                    anxiously. "It is a smaller one, and them are more
                                    Indians carrying it. This time we shall have more trouble
                                    beating them off."
                              Thus were the defenders recalled to the stern realities of their
                                    situation. The dangers threatening them were even greater than
                                    they were aware of. As the warriors came on and the defenders
                                    prepared to receive them, some dark forms were wading cautiously
                                    under the bank of the swift stream whose current in peaceful
                                    times turned the wheel of the mill. They reached a point close
                                    under the rear wall and stepped silently from the water upon the
                                    bank. Here they were still in the shadow, but there was light
                                    enough to reveal their figures with tolerable distinctness and
                                    even something of their features. He who had led the way was the
                                          habitant Jacques Marmette; the giant
                                    behind him could be no other than Reparti; the squat, half-naked
                                    form that brought up the rear was Le Chat.
                              No sooner had they put foot upon dry ground than the habitant raised a ladder he was carrying against the
                                    wall, and, mounting it, came to a small window in the second
                                    story which he proceeded cautiously to open. This opera-tion he performed without noise.
                                    Then, creeping in, he beckoned to his companions to follow. This
                                    they did. In less time than it takes to tell, all three were
                                    inside the mill and were groping their way toward the stairs
                                    that led to the top.
                              But hardly had the sachem's moccasins disappeared through
                                    the window when a lithe form such as belongs to a well-developed
                                    boy of ten years glided from behind the bank and mounted the
                                    ladder with the lightness and rapidity of a cat. He, in turn,
                                    had scarcely disappeared when yet another figure, attired in the
                                    garb of an Indian woman, likewise crept up the ladder and
                                    through the window into the mill.
                              As Reparti and his companions reached the stairway, the savages
                                    bearing the battering-ram dashed toward the door. The defenders
                                    fired as before. Cries of rage and anguish told that the bullets
                                    had not been sped in vain, but a violent blow delivered a moment
                                    later against the door showed that this time the besiegers had
                                    struck home. Hurriedly yet quietly the three men who had entered
                                    through the window mounted the stairs and stepped out upon the
                                    roof. Randolph and Barnaby were so intent upon hurling down
                                    missiles upon the heads of the raging mob gathered before the
                                    door that they did not dream of danger in their rear. Drawing
                                    their weapons, Reparti and Le Chat had begun to steal forward,
                                    when from the head of the stairs a boyish voice exclaimed:
                              "Father, look behind you!"
                              Barnaby and Randolph whirled at the sound. Alfrede and Toinette,
                                    catching sight of the apparitions, screamed.
                              "My boy!" cried the Irishman. "My little
                                    Barnaby!"
                              At last the conflict which the Virginians so long had hoped for was
                                    come. Before them stood their enemies. And life and more than
                                    life hung the issue.
                              
                              "At last I have you, you divil!" roared Barnaby,
                                    springing with clubbed rifle at Le Chat.
                              At the approach of danger, Jacques stepped back toward the
                                    stairway. Quick as thought the boy gave him a push which sent
                                    him tumbling backward to the floor below, where he lay
                                    groaning.
                              Almost at the same instant Barnaby struck a heavy blow at Le Chat.
                                    The sachem partly evaded it and partly caught it on uplifted
                                    tomahawk. Then he glided toward his opponent and struck with the
                                    knife in his left hand. The blow went home. Baraby dropped his
                                    rifle. The sachem uttered a whoop of triumph. But he little knew
                                    the man with whom he had to deal. The memory of past wrongs, the
                                    sweet joy of knowing that his son still lived, combined to give
                                    the borderer superhuman strength and vitality. Before the blow
                                    could be repeated he closed with his antagonist. For some
                                    moments they wrestled fiercely. Then the white man with
                                    resistless power raised the sachem in his arms, and staggering
                                    to the front of the mill, with a mighty heave threw him as he
                                    might a child over the battlement, to fall crushed and bleeding
                                    on the rocks fifty feet below.
                              Meanwhile another conflict equally venomous had begun. Drawing his
                                    sword at the fist sight of his enemy, Randolph sprang forward to
                                    meet him.
                              "I have long promised myself the pleasure of sending you
                                    to hell!" he cried as he parried a vicious thrust.
                                    "I will finish the work that Captain Van Braam
                                    begun."
                              "We shall see," hissed Reparti, redoubling his
                                    efforts.
                              The two were equally matched. Reparti was the stronger; but
                                    Randolph was fully his equal as a swordsman, and was besides
                                    exalted by a determination that rendered him unusually
                                    formidable. Steel rasped against steel, but neither combatant
                                    gained any advantage. Theraging
                                    flames without gave ample light and made it possible for each
                                    man to read his antagonist's attack. Alfrede and
                                    Toinette stood watching in horror-stricken silence.
                              The conflict was still undecided when Barnaby disposed of the
                                    sachem. Though bleeding freely from his wound, the Irishman
                                    caught up his rifle once more and advanced upon the
                                    Frenchman.
                              "Stand back!" cried Randolph angrily. "I
                                    have sworn to kill him myself."
                              But Barnaby, regarding the Frenchman as he would a snake and having
                                    wrongs of his own to avenge, had no mind to allow Randolph to
                                    endanger his life out of a mistaken sense of chivalry and honor.
                                    He disobeyed he order, and, with uplifted weapon, drew nearer.
                                    Keenly aware of this new danger, Reparti, still facing Randolph,
                                    retreated toward the stairs, closely pressed by both his
                                    foes.
                              But it was ordained that neither of the Virginians should slay the
                                    man who had so bitterly wronged them. Reparti's retreat
                                    unconsciously brought him nearer to a form that had just
                                    appeared up the stairs. The form sprang forward; a knife flashed
                                    in the light of the flames, and sheathed itself to the hilt in
                                    the Frenchman's broad back. Reparti turned and
                                    recognized his new assailant.
                              "Sàki!" he gasped, then tottered backward to the
                                    floor.
                              Instantly the girl's ferocity seemed to disappear.
                                    Kneeling beside the body, she feverishly placed her hand over
                                    the heart. No fluttering throb met her touch.
                              "He is dead," said Currin solemnly. "His
                                    sin has found him out."
                              With a bitter sob the girl passionately kissed the paling face.
                                    Then, springing to her feet, she ran to the battlement and
                                    mounted it.
                              "Sàki has no more to live for now!" she
                                    cried.
                              
                              
                                    "Kneeling beside the body, she
                                          feverishly placed her hand over the heart."
                                    Page336
                              
                              
                              Again the knife rose and fell. In a moment her body followed that
                                    of the sachem to the rocks below.
                              Meanwhile the warriors without had been dealing thunderous blows
                                    against the door, which, ponderous but worm-eaten, was at last
                                    splintering beneath the repeated shocks. But as the demoniac
                                    yells grew more triumphant, there came from beyond the flames a
                                    volley of shots, followed by New England cheers.
                        
                        
                        
                              CHAPTER XXXVII
                              EASTOVER
                              FAR to the southward from the Rock of Quebec runs
                                    a broad and shining river called the Potomac, on whose fertile
                                    banks in colonial days rose the mansions of a race of gentlemen
                                    whose lives and deeds are known wherever history is read or
                                    civilized language spoken. To one of these mansions we must now
                                    transport ourselves. It was a spacious structure, with wide
                                    extending wings; and it crowned the top of a park-like hill that
                                    stretched with gradual ascent up from the river. On one side
                                    were numerous stables and tobacco sheds; on the other, a village
                                    of white-washed cabins where red-turbaned mammies crooned and
                                    pickaninnies capered in the sunshine. Beyond lay broad fields,
                                    meadows, pastures, and forests on whose branches still clung the
                                    crimson leaves of autumn.
                              At the foot of the hill stood a wharf piled high with huge casks of
                                    tobacco awaiting the annual London ship that would bring the
                                    varied goods ordered months before through the English factor
                                    and would carry away the great staple. At the end of the wharf
                                    sat a small, barefooted negro boy, whose rude pole and line
                                    prolaimed that he was an humble disciple of the gentle Izaak.
                                    While waiting for the fish to bite he basked lazily in the
                                    afternoon sunlight, watching the antics of some wild ducks and
                                    great white swans far out in the stream, and singing over and
                                    over to himself:
                              
                              
                                    "Juba dis an' Juba dat,
                                    An' Juba roun' de kittle o'
                                          fat,
                                    Juba heah, an' Juba dah,
                                    An' Juba, Juba ebry whah."
                              
                              
                              "You boy!" The speaker was a white man who had
                                    ridden up the river road and had just drawn rein beside the
                                    wharf.
                              "Yes, suh!" answered the boy, springing up and
                                    hurrying toward the horseman.
                              "What's yer name?"
                              "Alexander, suh."
                              "Do you belong to Captain Randolph?"
                              "Yes, suh."
                              The horseman fumbled in his ragged coat and drew out a couple of
                                    letters. "Well, I reckon you may tote these hyer up to
                                    the Hall an' save me the trouble. They wuz give to me
                                    down to Quantico Crick 'bout ten this mawnin',
                                    an' I wuz told as how I wuz to leave 'em hyer.
                                    Your master'll be up the river soon as the tide turns.
                                    He has a mighty purty gal along with 'im who they
                                    say's your new missus. Lieutenant Currin's
                                    with 'em. He give me the letters. He got hurt
                                    fittin' the Frenchers an' still looks kinder
                                    pale like. Said he'd 've rid over hisself if
                                    he'd been able."
                              Alexander took the letters, whereupon the horseman turned, and,
                                    clapping spurs to his mount, rapidly disappeared down the road.
                                    The boy looked first at one and then at the other of the
                                    missives, much as a monkey might have done, after which scrutiny
                                    he walked out on the wharf to secure his pole and string of
                                    fish. While he was doing the latter, one of the letters slipped
                                    from his grasp into the water, floated a little way, then slowly
                                    sank out of sight.
                              " Now I'se gwine ketch it!" he exclaimed
                                    ruefully.
                              For some minutes he reflected upon the gravity of his situation.
                                    Then his face relaxed, and he said: "Huh, dey
                                    don' know I got two!"
                              With this comforting thought he picked up his pole and fish and
                                    climbed the hill toward the Hall.
                              
                              "You Alexander! whah yo' been to now?"
                                    demanded a grizzled old negro in livery of blue, when the boy
                                    presented himself at a rear door.
                              "I'se been fishin', pappy,"
                                    said the boy, grinning cavernously.
                              Law, chile, why you did done ketch a string of big ones!"
                                    exclaimed the old man, lifting the fish and looking at them with
                                    his head cocked to one side.
                              " Whah's Mis' Currin?"
                              "Wha' you done want wid Mis' Currin,
                                    chile?"
                              " A man done gib me a letteh foh her."
                              "Did you say that you have a letter for me,
                                    Alexander?" asked an eager voice, and a lady came
                                    hurrying out on the porch on which father and son stood. A
                                    little older and much sadder, she was still as beautiful as when
                                    first we met her in the cabin in the valley of the Shenandoah.
                                    After her stalked a great silky-eared hound, whose dimming eyes
                                    bore evidence to the ravages of age. Along his side ran a long
                                    line bare of hair--the trace of an ancient and terrible
                                    wound.
                              "Yes, missus," replied the boy, "a man
                                    done gib me dis. He say as how Mistah Currin gib it to him down
                                    to Quantico Crick. He said massa wuz along wid a purty gal who
                                    wuz to be the new missus."
                              "But this letter is not for me, Alexander," said
                                    Ellen disappointedly. "It is directed to Colonel
                                    Washington."
                              "He said it wuz foh you," averred the boy.
                              "That is strange. He must have had another and lost
                                    it."
                              "Jist like a triflin' pore white!"
                                    ejaculated the old negro scornfully.
                              "What else did the man say, Alexander?"
                              "He maid massa'd be up de ribber when de tide
                                    done turn."
                              
                              "Did he say anything about any one else being on the
                                    boat?" asked Ellen, with an effort.
                              "Nary a word, missus."
                              Ellen sighed, and the old negro looked disappointed. Then she said:
                                    "Philip, send some boy over to Mount Vernon with this.
                                    We must do our best to give your master and mistress a cheerful
                                    homecoming."
                              Philip departed with the letter toward the stables, where he
                                    directed the first stable-boy he met to saddle a horse. When the
                                    animal was led out, however, the old man mounted it himself and
                                    galloped off down the driveway.
                              "Dis boy has reasons fer
                                    wantin' carry dat letter hisself," he
                                    chuckled, as he swung into the main highway.
                                    "He's done got a'
                                    ijear."
                              Half an hour's ride brought him in sight of another
                                    mansion standing likewise at the brow of a gentle wooded slope
                                    which ended, however, at a precipitous river bank, whose summit
                                    was many feet above the level of the stream and commanded a
                                    noble prospect of water, cliffs, woods, and plantations. The
                                    house itself was two stories high, with a long porch in front
                                    and a chimney at each end. As Philip drew near, a tall horsemn,
                                    who had just dismounted was caressing a number of foxhounds that
                                    had gathered affectionately round him.
                              "Take the mare to the stable, Bishop," he was
                                    saying to a groom in scarlet livery. "Down, Sweetlips,
                                    down!" he continued to the most demonstrative of the
                                    hounds. "Why, how do you do, Philip!" he
                                    exclaimed, perceiving the newcomer. "Any news from your
                                    master?"
                              "He's down de ribber at Quantico Creek,
                                    an' he' comin' up when de tide
                                    turn," said Philip eagerly. "He's
                                    done got a beautiful new missus with him, an'
                                    Lieutenant Currin's along. I've got a letteh
                                    heah foh you from massa."
                              "Why, that's glorious!" exclaimed
                                    Washington, for it was indeed he.
                                    "'Glorious! The best news I've heard
                                    for months!"
                              " We's gwine gib 'em a big
                                    home-comin', Colonel Washington," continued
                                    the old negro. "I'se sure Massa
                                    Randolph'll not feel's though it wuz complete
                                    'less you come over."
                              "Thank you, Philip, we'll certainly
                                    come!"
                              " Dey's anotheh t'ing,"
                                    continued the negro, somewhat doubtfully.
                              " What is it Philip?"
                              "I'se done been t'inkin',
                                    Colonel Washington, dat it would be a scrumptious fine
                                    t'ing if you could kinder prevail on Mis'
                                    Currin's folks to come, too. It's gwine be a
                                    mighty disappintment to her, Colonel Washington, for dem to kem
                                    home 'thout that boy. She's been
                                    a-hopin' for the leetle feller--I could see it. Yes,
                                    suh, it'll be a big disappintment. She's been
                                    a-hopin'. An' if you could sorter just force
                                    'em to kem over, it'd kinder take some
                                    o' the aidge off, mebbe. 'T's jist
                                    pride, nothin' but pride, holds 'em back,
                                    Colonel Washington. Dey hain't got no otheh chilluns
                                    but Ellen, an' dey'd be a heap happier all
                                    roun' if dey'd git reconile'. You
                                    could do it."
                              "Your wishes do you honor, Philip," said
                                    Washington gravely. "We'll see what can be
                                    done."
                              After a few more words the negro rode off down the drive.
                                    Washington mounted the steps, crossed the wide veranda, and
                                    entered the house.
                              " Who was the messenger, George?" asked a gentle
                                    voice. The speaker was a lady somewhat below the middle size but
                                    plump and well formed, with dark eyes expressive of kindly good
                                    nature, and a handsome face in which beamed intelligence--a face
                                    which, when grown older, is, of all feminine faces, the one most
                                    familiar to Americans.
                              "'T was Captain Randolph's Philip,
                                    Patsy," said he, ashe put
                                    one arm round the lady and kissed her. " He brought a
                                    letter from the captain, who is expected home this
                                    afternoon."
                              "Have you read the letter yet?"
                              "No, but I'll read it aloud,"said he.
                                    Forthwith he broke the seal and read: 
                                          
                                                
                                                  "DEAR GEORGE,--
                                                  I am sending this by Messener from Quantico
                                                  Creek to let you know that we expect to reach
                                                  Eastover about five this Afternoon. By this time
                                                  you know,of course, of our great Vicory at Quebec
                                                  and of the Death of those noble Heroes Wolfe and
                                                  Montcalm. The Night after the battle the cowardly
                                                  Vaudreuil and Bigot with the Remnants of the
                                                  routed Army fled from the city, which opened its
                                                  Gates to us five Days later. Another short
                                                  Campaign, and all Canada is inevitably ours. Thus
                                                  will end the great War which WE began on the
                                                  Slopes of Laurel Hill. Captain Van Braam and
                                                  Lieutenant Currin are with me--and we have the
                                                  BOY! Also there is another Person whom you have
                                                  met before. I will not say more save that another
                                                  Fairfax Plantation does have a
                                                  new Mistress. How it all came about, I will tell
                                                  you later. Of course, you must come over to meet
                                                  us--you and Mrs. Washington. Could n't
                                                  you in some Way induce the Carys to accompany you?
                                                  It would be the one thing necessary to make all
                                                  complete. Surely they could be brought round now.
                                                  Barnaby is a splendid Fellow. Even the Carys of
                                                  Virginia need not apologize for a Son-in-Law who
                                                  has served on the staff of Wolfe and
                                                  has been complimented by General Townshend.
                                                  If you can do it, you will greatly oblige me, and,
                                                  I am sure, will make all happy. With best Regards
                                                  to you both, I am
                                                  
                                                  "Your affectionate
                                                  Friend,
                                                  "CHARLES RANDOLPH."
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              "What a strange coinidence!" Washington exclaimed
                                    "Philip aked me to try to do the same thing. But he did
                                    n't know they had found the boy!"
                              
                              "How happy Ellen will be to have him again!"
                                    cried Mrs. Wasington, and her eyes were wet with sympathetic
                                    tears. "Oh, George, can't we prevail upon the
                                    Carys to go and make all perfect? In some way we must do
                                    it!"
                              The colonel smiled fondly down into the eager face, and his own
                                    voice was not too steady as he said: "Yes, Patsy, I
                                    think for once we may well break a good rule and meddle in an
                                    affair that is not our own."
                              Half an hour later an elegant new chariot, emblazoned with the
                                    Washington arms and attended by black outriders in gray suits,
                                    scarlet waistcoats, and silver-laced hats, drew up before the
                                    mansion. Mrs. Washington, handsomely gowned, was gallantly
                                    handed in by the colonel, whose costume now included a
                                    fashionable gold-laced hat and a sword with a brilliant gold and
                                    scarlet sword-knot. The colonel then mounted a superb black
                                    horse that was being held in waiting by a groom; the outriders
                                    took their places; and the equipage was off.
                              A short drive along a pleasant woodland road bought them in sight
                                    of another mansion, which in size and appointments was in no way
                                    inferior to those already described. By Washington's
                                    direction the chariot stopped before it. He dismounted, and,
                                    handing his rein to one of the outriders, climbed the steps of
                                    the pillared portico and swung the great brass knocker. Soon he
                                    was ushered by a black serving-man into a spacious drawing-room,
                                    from whose wainscoted walls the impassive faces of worthies in
                                    courtly garb looked down upon him. Presently a tall and
                                    proud-looking gentleman and a beautiful gentlewoman, both in
                                    middle age, entered.
                              "Major and Mrs. Cary," said Washington, when the
                                    first greetings were over, "I have come on a somewhat
                                    strange errand. I beg that however you may receive what I am
                                    about to say, you will at least believe that it proceedsfrom an honest desire to further
                                    the happinss of you and others of my dear friends."
                              "I have not the slightest doubt in the world, not the
                                    slightest, my dear colonel," said the major
                                    heartily.
                              "Well, then, I may proceed; and yet I hardly know how to
                                    begin. Perhaps I may as well say first that Captain Randolph is
                                    to arrive home this evening bringing a wife."
                              "La! your good example is proving contagious, it
                                    seems," laughed Mrs. Cary. "Who is the
                                    bride?"
                              "Of that I am not sure, but I think she is the daughter of
                                    Captain de Saint-Pierre, of whom, I believe, I have told you.
                                    Captain Randolph is also accompanied by Lieutenant Currin, your
                                    son-in-law, and his son, your grandson, whom in some way they
                                    have happily contrived to rescue."
                              As he said the last, the speaker keenly watched the two faces
                                    before him. Major Cary's countenance was inscrutable,
                                    but the colonel fancied that a look of joy flashed into Mrs.
                                    Cary's eyes.
                              "Well, what of that?" said the major, a trifle
                                    stiffly.
                              "I wanted you to go with me to receive them,"
                                    said Washington earnestly. "Captain Randolph has asked
                                    me to do it. Even Philip pleaded that I should."
                              "Confound that old nigger!" said the major
                                    sharply.
                              "Captain Randolph says it is the one thing needed to make
                                    the home-coming perfect. I understand how you have felt in this
                                    matter. But the time has passed for that. Lieutenant Currin has
                                    proved himself a man on many occasions. I do not hesitate to say
                                    that in my regiment there was no officer, not even Captain
                                    Randolph, whose opinion I valued more highly or who did more for
                                    our cause. At Quebec he has greatly distinguished himself and
                                    even served on the staff of Wolfe. Furthermore, I understand,
                                    from a letter I have just received from Lord Fairfax at
                                    Winchester, that it is the intention of the peoplein the Shenandoah region to elect Currin
                                    to fill a vacancy in the burgesses and that he will have no
                                    opposition. So you see there is really no reason why you should
                                    not forget the past. If Lieutenant Currin had proved a worthless
                                    fellow, you might well continue to refuse to recognize him; but
                                    his good sense, firmness, and gallantry have raised him to a
                                    position which most men in all Viginia might well envy. Come,
                                    old friends, Mrs. Washington is waiting outside in the chariot.
                                    You shall ride with her. You simply must go!"
                              Into Mrs. Cary' face had come an eager look which there
                                    was no mistaking.
                              "Richard," she said gently, "Richard,
                                    let us go."
                              Well, if we must, I suppose we must," said Richrd
                                    resignedly. "There's no resisting a soldier
                                    like Colonel Washington."
                              Mrs. Cary ran to get her wraps and hat with almost the agility of a
                                    girl, while even the major displayed wonderful spryness for one
                                    so chronically afflicted with the gout.
                              "Colonel Washington," she said, when she came
                                    back, "Ellen had many admirers; but I have noticed that
                                    all the rest have shown far greater proficieney in guzzling
                                    wine, horse-racing, and cock-fighting than in facing the enemies
                                    of their country. Any man who could fight as Lieutenant Currin
                                    did when he rescued Ellen is good enough for my son-in-law."
                              "He did do well, for a fact, admitted the major.
                                    "Gad, I don't know that I could have done any
                                    better myself! Let me see, it was three Indians he killed, was
                                    n't it?"
                              "Three in the boat and one in the pursuit, to be
                                    exact," said Washington with an inward smile.
                              "I never heard of anything to equal it!" declaed
                                    Mrs. Cary, and there were tears in her eyes. "Colonel
                                          Wash-ington, ever since my
                                    grandson was carried off, I've wanted to go to Ellen,
                                    and I think Richard has, too."
                              "How do you know?" said Richard enigmaticlly.
                              When an hour later the Mount Vernon chariot drew near Eastover, its
                                    occupants saw a motley assemblage, chiefly composed of negroes
                                    of all sizes, ages, and sexes gathered on and about the wharf,
                                    gazing expectantly down the river at a white sail a quarter of a
                                    mile below. As the chariot came to a standstill, Ellen, who was
                                    at the end of the wharf, saw and recognized both it and the
                                    horseman beside it and hurried to greet the newcomers. Just then
                                    the chariot door opened, and Mrs. Washington and Major and Mrs.
                                    Cary descended.
                              "Mother! father!" cried Ellen, and kissed them
                                    both. The two women clung to each other weeping, white the great
                                    hound wagged his tell and whimpered sympathetically. Even the
                                    major might not have been able ,to contain himself had he not
                                    perceived Philip looking on with features in which
                                    self-satisfation and joy were curiously commingled. Stepping up
                                    to the old servant, the major surreptitiously slipped into his
                                    not too reluctant palm a gold sovereign.
                              Meanwhile, aided by both wind and tide, the boat had been rapidly
                                    approaching. Its spreading sails shone white against the
                                    darkening water, while beyond rose the clustered Maryland hills
                                    whose golden canopy was glorified by the descending sun. No more
                                    peaceful scene could have been selected for a home-coming.
                              Soon the negroes began to exclaim: "I sees Marse Charlie!
                                    Kin you see Marse Charlie?"
                              Their eyes had not played them false. Near the bow stood Randolph,
                                    dressed as usual, in the blue and scarlet uniform of a captain
                                    of Royal Americans, and beside him a slender figure which
                                    Washington had last seen sil-houetted against a pink morning sky, crying "Bon voyage!" Close by stood a
                                    short, stocky man, with a bullet-shaped head, large nose, and
                                    mustachios trimmed in the military fashion; also a well-knit
                                    figure, broad of shoulders and handsome and frank of face; while
                                    beside him, almost concealed from view by the vessel's
                                    side, was a slighter form which bade fair in time to be the
                                    replica of the father.
                              Steered by a deft hand, the boat drew in to the landing amid
                                    vociferous shouts of: "Welcome home, Marse Charlie! We
                                    sho' is glad to see you an' the pretty missus,
                                    Marse Charlie!" in which young Alexander joined with
                                    the loudest.
                              As the boat touched the wharf, Ellen, with her mother and father,
                                    was making her way through the press toward it when a light form
                                    bounded down the side, and with a cry of
                                    "Mother!" flung itself into her arms. The
                                    hound sniffed eagerly at the lad's limbs, and then,
                                    capering madly about, filled the air with joyful bays. Long the
                                    mother hugged her son to her as if fearing to let him fo. Then,
                                    turning, she said:
                              "Mother, father, this is the little boy I
                                    lost!"
                              And Captain Van Braam was not the only one in whose eyes there were
                                    tears.
                        
                        THE END
                  
            
      
