
     ----CITATION---- 
        Miller, Elizabeth, 1878-1961. Daybreak: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3926
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                DAYBREAK
            
            
            
                
                    DAYBREAK
                    A STORY OF THE AGE OF DISCOVERY
                
                By
                    ELIZABETH JANE MILLER (MRS. OREN S. HACK)
                
                    NEW YORK
                    CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                    1915
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1915, BY
                     CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                Published April, 1915
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. JUAN GARCIA KEEPS
                            AN APPOINTMENT
                        3
                    II. JUAN GARCIA MEETS
                            THE CONDE DE LERIN
                        16
                    III. "TO WATCH HIM PASS" 24
                    IV. THE CAPTIVE'S STORY
                        36
                    V. BELTRAN WALKS AT NOONDAY
                        55
                    VI. CALCENA MAKES INQUIRY
                        69
                    VII. A MATTER OF REVENUE
                        84
                    VIII. A LAGGARD IN LOVE
                        95
                    IX. THE QUEEN'S SKIRMISH
                        112
                    X. IN THE QUEEN'S HOSPITAL
                        131
                    XI. "POR EL Rey" 154
                    XII. THESEUS OF THE VALIANT SWORD
                        170
                    XIII. THE JUNTA
                        186
                    XIV. THE DAY OF DEPARTURE
                        201
                    XV. THE HONOR OF A SPANIARD
                        210
                    XVI. THE CITY OF SANTA FE
                        222
                    XVII. BELTRAN SHOWS SANTANGEL A VISION
                        239
                    XVIII. ANTONIA MAKES A CHOICE
                        252
                    XIX. THE FALL OF GRANADA
                        264
                    
                    XX. THE WINDOW
                        269
                    XXI. THE INTERCESSION OF SANTANGEL
                        279
                    XXII. AT THE PUENTE PINOS
                        288
                    XXIII. AN IDOL OF THE PEOPLE
                        292
                    XXIV. CALCENA MAKES A FURTHER INVESTIGATION
                        395
                    XXV. THEY OF THE EXPLOITS
                        321
                    XXVI. DON GARCILASO SETTLES HIS AFFAIRS
                        338
                    XXVII. THE PILGRIM
                        344
                    XXVIII. THE DAY OF DISASTER
                        358
                    XXIX. AUTHORITIES CLASH
                        368
                    XXX. "THE GREEN SEA
                            OF DARKNESS" 382
                    XXXI. THE TWELFTH OF OCTOBER
                        399
                    XXXII. TWELVE WEEKS
                        405
                    XXXIII. THE PALM-STREWN PATH
                        415
                    XXXIV. THE SPANISH WIDOW IN TANGIER
                        421
                
            
            
            
                DAYBREAK
            
        
        
            
            
                DAYBREAK
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    JUAN GARCIA KEEPS AN APPOINTMENT
                    THERE was consternation among Ferdinand's captains when,
                        after weeks of foray over the whole region, a Moorish watch-tower was
                        discovered commanding a pass through the Parapandas.
                    This particular defile led down into the vega from Alcalá la Real,
                        Ferdinand's base of supplies. Every day military convoys rich with treasure,
                        foodstuffs, and arms, so piteously needed in the besieged Moorish capital,
                        had passed under the eye of that cleverly concealed outpost.
                    That there had been no assault from the tower in the four weeks after the
                        Christians had entered the vega was the best ground for the assumption that
                        the fortification had been abandoned. But it was too inviting to roving
                        bands of Moslem brigands to be tolerated. So a detachment of artillery was
                        hastily despatched from the camp of Ferdinand and Isabella to lay the
                        perilous stronghold level with the ground.
                    The artillery was in charge of a young officer of imperfect conclusions. When
                        he appeared before the slim red structure, built of native rock and almost
                        absorbed by the background of maroon hills, it seemed so lifeless and still
                        under the lucent sunshine of early May in Spain that he accepted the
                        impression of abandonment as a fact.
                    But what was his astonishment and indignation when  he trained his lumbering piece upon the tower to see the draw drop, the
                        port bound aloft, and a troop of Moorish garrison scramble down the slippery
                        escarpment of gaunt rock to a ravine below and scurry away through the
                        broken wild toward the city of Granada.
                    A yell of astonishment and a drift of arrows pursued them, but they laid rein
                        about the necks of their lean beasts and were lost in the dust of their
                        going.
                    Red with chagrin and confusion, the young officer ordered his artilleryman to
                        proceed with the demolition of the tower. In this, his last conclusion was
                        as immature as his first. He overlooked the immemorial custom of looting an
                        abandoned fortification.
                    So his stolid German gunner squinted his pale-blue eye and set about trimming
                        away the slender structure bit by bit and heaping it in ruins among the
                        rocks from which it had risen.
                    Then the artilleros rehitched their ungainly gun-cart, remounted their
                        sweating horses, and the party rumbled away down into the valley toward the
                        camp of the Christian army.
                    The road to Alcalá la Real, above which the tower had stood so long in such
                        perfect ambush, was a lonely defile wandering through tumbled wastes of rock
                        and among tremendous mountain ranges. Except for the hour when the convoy
                        trailed its opulent length through the wild, the dust of the solitary road
                        was rarely disturbed by foot or hoof or wheel.
                    At noon the day following the destruction of the tower, smudged white clouds
                        circled the ragged horizon. These, presently, concentrated in a blue-black
                        spot and the heat fell, deadly oppressive. Silence and complete stagnation
                        of the air reigned for a space. Now and then deep mutterings of thunder came
                        across the great distance. But the sun above the ruined tower rémained
                        unclouded. After a time the sky far and wide was all blue, and little, cool,
                        whispering winds from the rain blew blithely through the high, crisp meadows
                        of esparto grass.
                    
                    About four o'clock the stillness was broken by the tinkle of a little bell,
                        and a boy, in the dress of a page and riding a mule, rounded an outstanding
                        buttress of rock in the road at the foot of the escarpment. With the lad was
                        a single attendant, afoot.
                    At the same time to the northeast two other travellers appeared upon the
                        hills. Now they plunged down slopes in rockets of red dust; now they walked
                        across the level beds of sandy barrancas, now scrambled up declivities, now
                        moved clear-cut against the sky along the combs of ridges, but ever came
                        nearer to the ruined tower.
                    The mule rider and his escudero arrived at the base of the hill in the flank
                        of which the tower had stood. For a moment there was indecision and search
                        for landmarks. Then the escudero, plying hand and foot, scaled the slippery
                        escarpment leading to the ruin and after a single look waved his hand to the
                        boy below. The page dismounted and, ordering his escort to assist him,
                        climbed up to the ruins.
                    "There it is!" the page exclaimed. "In ruins! But for the white core of rock
                        like a lance-head in the cliff yonder I never should have found the
                        place."
                    "The lad knew his directions, God rest him," the escudero answered.
                    "Yes, and Calcena knew of a Moorish watch-tower that was unreported," the boy
                        added under his breath. "Now I wonder if these Jews be as well
                        directed."
                    He sprang with an exceedingly light foot upon the stone nearest him and,
                        taking in the whole tumbled sea of mountain landscape, saw the two
                        approaching with infinite toil from the northeast.
                    "They come!" he said with exultation.
                    But, observing the pair hesitate as if at a loss for direction, he slipped a
                        small handkerchief from his sleeve and fluttered it in the breeze.
                        Immediately the two resumed their toilsome progress toward the ruined
                        tower.
                    The escudero noted that signal with a smile. It seemed that a boy of fifteen,
                        as this one appeared to be,  would have taken
                        off his hood and waved it with his whole arm. There were other signs tending
                        to prove that it was an unusual lad that stood upon the rock. He wore a
                        doublet, hose, and hood, all of fog-gray satin, but admittedly made for some
                        other than himself. It was too loose where it should have fitted snugly and
                        too tight where it should have fallen slack. The hose covered the shapeliest
                        of limbs and the roundest of knees, and the sabbatons of black satin were
                        frivolously stitched and the latchets were of gold.
                    His coloring, his eyes, his black hair were too fine, too soft, too rich for
                        a boy just entering manhood.
                    "Pray the saints to detain the convoy only a little longer," the boy said to
                        his escort while he watched the advance of the pair from the northeast.
                        "This is mortal business, Irishman. If you are asked, remember that you are
                        in nowise acquainted with the incident."
                    "Mortal business is my pet weakness," the Irishman replied with a reserve in
                        his Spanish that his mother tongue would never have laid upon him. "But I
                        fear I am showing a foppery in the choice of my confederates of late."
                    The round chin of the boy tilted and the Irishman smiled again.
                    "You will do well to get to cover immediately," he added, "for I am free to
                        confess you are wanting practice at this."
                    "When you excel in the practice of holding your tongue, sirrah," the lad
                        retorted, "you may advise me somewhat upon my own deportment."
                    The Irishman, rather delighted than abashed at this rebuke, ducked his head
                        in lieu of a bow and fell silent. After a little pause he mounted a fragment
                        of rock some distance away from the boy.
                    He drew in a long breath of admiration.
                    Leagues away, but deceivingly near in that crystal air, Granada stood with
                        her back to the wall.
                    Behind it, so close that its rock-falls dropped into the  courts below, reared the hill of the Alhambra, crowned with a
                        miracle in a shell of rose-colored tapia. Above it, left and right, towered
                        the sallow peaks of Mulhacen and Veleta, spotted, in spite of the summer
                        sun, with fields of snow. Southward through it tumbled the Darro, between
                        walls of stone and under airy bridges. Below it the river melted into the
                        wider reach and greater depth of the yellow Xenil. Mantling two hillsides
                        between the rivers lay the infinite shining of a great white city. Out of
                        the checkering of colored tiles and the plumy green darkness of cypress
                        groves, gilded minarets, domes of mosques, and the square towers of miradors
                        lifted their shining shapes into the western sun.
                    Lower and flat upon the plain stretched the suburbs, pushed, half-protected,
                        to the fore like a check bait thrown to the beast. And without these, under
                        ward of the thousand towers and the lofty battlements of the impregnable
                        walls, were the wide, green masses of gardens and orchards and vineyards,
                        netted with thousands of bright rivulets and beautiful with the colors of
                        countless painted villas.
                    Cut off from all this by the waters of the Darro and the Xenil was a yellow
                        waste, a bloody waste, trampled, broken, prostrate, desolated, and dead. As
                        far as the eye could reach there was a vast, shimmering level smutted in
                        spots with burned villages and traversed by many straight white roads, but
                        unrelieved by the grateful green of a farm to the far-off edge of the
                        sky.
                    In the heart of this great desert that they had made, Ferdinand of Aragon and
                        Isabella of Castile had pitched their camp.
                    It was a vast quadrangle, quartering forty thousand troops, intersected by
                        streets and passages and dominated by a great, party-colored Oriental
                        pavilion which fluttered the royal pennon. About this tent was builded a
                        silken city, conical, pyramidal, square, bell, gable, marquee; fringed,
                        striped, embroidered, painted, and of every color of the rainbow. Everywhere
                        noble standards  waved from their staffs, a
                        veritable forest of heraldry.
                    Separated from the quarters of the nobility by a broad esplanade lay the
                        barraca, an endless succession of tents set up by the common fighting men.
                        Mud and wattle cabins lent a dull note to all this light and splendor, and
                        away to the rear was a nondescript huddle of booths, douars, and huts in
                        which the camp-following had taken up its abiding-place.
                    Trenching, bulwarks, and a faint white path beaten in the dust of the vega
                        were thrown about this huge encampment. And along that narrow, white line at
                        regular intervals flashing sentries strode back and forth in ceaseless
                        vigilance over the camp of the Christian.
                    "I would be as proud," said the escudero, as if to himself, "to die defending
                        the place as I would be to die conquering it."
                    "Calcena would say," observed the boy, "that you have no choice between being
                        a Christian and a Moor, and would burn you for it."
                    It was this remark in a voice very sweet and light for a boy of fifteen, and
                        by the same reason unexpected in so wild a spot, that attracted the
                        attention of a wayfarer in the road below.
                    He was a tall man, snow-white in his prime, picturesque in a wide hat and an
                        old black doublet, and bearing with superb contempt for his poverty a burden
                        on his back and a little child in his arms.
                    The traveller caught sight of the lad on the rock, fairylike and almost
                        radiant with the setting sun upon his sheeny satin. The keen eyes under the
                        blond brows of the wayfarer ran swiftly over the airy figure and lighted
                        then with some suspicion upon the stocky presence of the escudero. He
                        slackened his step and seemed about to halt. The escudero at that moment
                        dropped off his perch and, withdrawing some distance, waited with his back
                        to the page. The boy stepped down from the stone and went up toward the ruin
                        as  if to join persons whom the wayfarer could
                        not see. The white-haired man in the road took some reassurance from the
                        incident and resumed his way with now and then a backward glance as the
                        windings of the road brought him sight of the lad on the hillside.
                    The evening shadow of the heights fell over the ruin, and as the boy
                        approached it he unconsciously went a-tiptoe. A complete waste of masonry
                        cumbered a wide space and quite filled up the dry draw about the fallen
                        structure. Fragments of furniture, blackened pieces of the oven and a
                        hopeless admixture of commissary, arms, and broken stone lent some detail to
                        a general litter of red rock in every degree of fracture and cleavage.
                    Not too near the lonely wreck the boy stopped. The two who had come from the
                        northeast across the hills approached him and it was to be seen that they
                        were elderly men. They wore the robe and round cap prescribed for Jews but
                        of a material sufficiently costly to indicate their prosperous
                        circumstances. They were covered with dust and showed every sign of having
                        come a long, wearisome journey afoot. They both contemplated with a certain
                        astonishment the youngling who awaited them.
                    "Are you the brothers Sanchez from Aragon?" the boy asked.
                    "That, son of a Christian," the younger Jew answered, "we can better answer
                        to him who is entitled to ask."
                    The boy's face flamed at this.
                    "Soft!" he said. "You are ill-conditioned to make me such an answer. You are
                        the brothers Sanchez, here to meet Calcena's messenger. If you would hear
                        aught to your advantage give me courteous attention else I am hence to your
                        loss."
                    "Can it be," the elder Jew asked mildly, "that you are the messenger whom we
                        were to meet?"
                    "I have come in his place. He was killed in a rockfall  after a storm a league north of this place and I have come in
                        his stead."
                    The Jews took in the boy's appearance from head to foot.
                    "It is business of importance," the younger Jew demurred. "I
                        doubt—"
                    "If you will not speak with me," broke in the page with finality, "you will
                        speak with no one."
                    "Have you papers?" the elder Jew asked.
                    The lad produced a packet from a wallet that hung at his hip and handed it to
                        the Jew. The man hastily separated several folded writings, glanced over
                        them, and passed them to his brother.
                    "Read," he said. "I see there a letter from Abraham Senior to you."
                    "Calcena's letter," the boy resumed, "told you that it was the King's intent
                        to banish your people from Spain. He bade you meet his messenger at this
                        place for terms upon which you may live on unmolested. Is it not so?"
                    "What are these terms?" the Jew asked.
                    "What says Senior there?" the page asked of the one who had been reading.
                    "That he sees nothing for it but that we shall be banished!"
                    "And you have been informed by Calcena that he can save you," the boy added.
                        "What make you of that?"
                    "Calcena stands very close to his Majesty," the elder Jew remarked. "He may
                        be better informed than Senior."
                    "And upon that reasoning Calcena constructs all his fraud," declared the
                        page. "The King does not wish to banish you. He will not do so except under
                        the strongest pressure. And when that potent force, which is the Spanish
                        people, presses upon his Majesty, not even Calcena can save you. None knows
                        that better than Calcena. He means to let you argue that since he stands  close to the King he is powerful, and so pay
                        him this extortion that will bring you naught but poverty."
                    "Nay, good Christian!" the younger Jew exclaimed, while the mouth of the
                        older one stood open in astonishment. "Are you come upon Calcena's business
                        or against it?"
                    "Against it!" the boy declared promptly. "Calcena's messenger, Juan Garcia,
                        was a converted Jew. In the face of death, his heart turned again to his own
                        people. He and I and yonder escudero were riding in a train of her Majesty's
                        ladies from Alcalá la Real and were caught in a rock-fall. He was wounded
                        unto death. Juan Garcia had been my friend, and, facing his end, he told me
                        all that was in his heart-all that he meant to say when he met you here. I
                        give you his message and I add thereto mine own persuasions. Beggar neither
                        yourselves nor the parents of Juan Garcia for this wolf Calcena."
                    "Strange," said the younger Jew after a complete silence, "that a young
                        Christian of the old blood should be so moved to the aid of Jews."
                    "Jew," said the page plainly, "I have mine own reason for this. Be glad that
                        you are to profit by it."
                    Again in the deepest thought the Jews regarded the lad.
                    "What are Calcena's terms?" the younger Jew repeated.
                    "One hundred thousand gold ducats."
                    At this both of the Jews threw up their hands with a cry of dismay.
                    "One hundred thousand gold ducats!" they exclaimed. "There is not one hundred
                        thousand ducats among the whole race in Spain!"
                    "He is better informed," the boy declared calmly. "Pray look upon his use for
                        them."
                    He handed a folded slip to the younger one, who ceased his outcry long enough
                        to read it.
                    "Nota bene: One hundred thousand gold ducats to 
                        be had from the Jews of Aragon may be loaned to his Majesty for the dowry of
                        Antonia de Aragon."
                    "Here is money-changing with a vengeance!" the older Jew groaned.
                    "Juan Garcia found that writing by accident. Calcena's auditor had lost it,"
                        pursued the page. "Now, if you must petition the King on this matter,
                        proceed through any other than Calcena."
                    "To extort from us, to loan to the King, to give to a maid a dower!" the
                        elder Jew went on, but the younger Jew interrupted him.
                    "We shall return no answer to this!" he said.
                    "It is right. And forget that you saw me here, for I have risked unimaginable
                        penalties from Calcena to spare you this."
                    "We will not betray you!" the older Jew said heartily.
                    "And here," added the boy, unslinging his wallet, "are all the letters. Those
                        which you have will complete your evidence against Calcena should you wish
                        to make a charge against him. Here and now I wash my hands of it."
                    "Be assured," responded the younger Jew, "our lips are sealed. My thanks and
                        the thanks of my people to you!"
                    There was a moment of silence as, the interview having ended, they made ready
                        to separate. And in that interval it seemed to the three that they heard a
                        sound.
                    They glanced at the ruin, covered with shadow. The upper edge of the hill was
                        colored with sunset fire; the hither slope was blue with shade. The mountain
                        wind rustled through the coverts of monte bajo and esparto grass. It was a
                        league to human voices besides their own. But, while they stood assuring
                        themselves that they had heard nothing, it came again.
                    Out of the ruin it came, surely; out of an infidel ruin, dim, whispered,
                        ghostly, but in full choir strength and filled with great earnestness: "Fiat
                        mihi secundum verbum tuum!"
                    
                    The angelus!
                    Instantly the three conferring beside the ruin whirled upon each other with
                        faces aghast, halted one petrified second, and then fled as if the wind had
                        blown them away.
                    Hard after them flew a cry, a voice veritably upon their heels, so close it
                        seemed.
                    "In God's name, fly not! Stay! Help us, Christians!"
                    The cry lent wings to the feet of the Jews. The Irish escudero sat down on
                        the slippery escarpment and vanished into the roadway below in an avalanche
                        of dust and rock slivers. But the boy stopped on the brink of the descent.
                        He had caught what the voice was now loudly repeating.
                    It was Latin; it was the credo! The voice was human; it was Christian.
                    He turned resolutely back.
                    The confession of faith was dropped mid-sentence. In the most cultivated
                        tones the same voice said: "I pray you be of courage, gentle youth. I am
                        only a Christian prisoner of the Moors buried under this ruin."
                    The gentleness and courtesy in the tone smote the lad with diffidence. He
                        felt that the speaker knew all about him.
                    "Where are you?" he asked.
                    "Within ten paces of you, straight ahead."
                    By this time the boy had made out a crevice in a pile of disordered masonry.
                        He went up to it and, peering in, encountered the hazel eyes of a young man
                        within a few inches of his own. He drew back quickly and a flush ran up to
                        his forehead. From that crevice the prisoner had seen and heard all that had
                        passed between him and the Jews.
                    "How came you there?" the page asked.
                    "We have been prisoners of the Moors who manned this garrison. Yesterday the
                        tower was demolished and the garrison fled. There are forty of us and we
                        have  had no food in this time. Some of us are
                        old and feeble, and unless help comes speedily these must die."
                    The boy called to the escudero, who was cautiously crawling up the rock again
                        to see what had befallen the page. While he waited for the man to return he
                        asked uneasily: "Did you not see me until now?"
                    "I saw you when you first came," the prisoner admitted, "but I was unwilling
                        to interrupt your conference until you had done."
                    "Until you had heard everything," the boy said in his heart. "I see beyond
                        doubt that I rescue you at my peril."
                    "But my holy brethren well-nigh frightened you away by their devotions," the
                        prisoner added.
                    "Are you a monk?" the boy asked with renewed trepidation.
                    "The saints forbid!" the young man laughed with some delight. "No. My
                        brethren, the monks, are in the dungeon below, attending their prayers,
                        while I keep watch."
                    "The dungeon? Where are you?"
                    "I broke through a scuttle in the floor overhead into this upper chamber,
                        which is nothing but a space between stones lodged upon each other. Had the
                        tower tumbled fair upon us we would have been crushed. The space is large
                        enough for but one, and luckily it fell my task to watch."
                    By this time the escudero had returned.
                    "There are Christian prisoners buried here," the lad said. "Get a bar from
                        the broken port and remove these smaller stones. It may be that we can
                        release them without help."
                    "That, fair youth, is not possible," the prisoner objected. "The balance of
                        this pile above me is insecure, and it will require the lift of an engine to
                        raise it without bringing the whole of it down on our heads."
                    Down in the dungeon, the angelus having been said,  the monks were crowding under the scuttle demanding to know if
                        help were at hand. While the young prisoner answered them the lad heard the
                        jingle of harness and the beat of hoofs in the road below.
                    "What is that? Who is that?" he demanded quickly of the Irishman.
                    "None of our train," responded the escudero, walking toward the escarpment.
                        "A body of troops."
                    The boy thought fast. He could inform the leader of this detachment of the
                        presence of prisoners under the ruin and so escape the danger in notifying
                        the authorities himself.
                    "Be of cheer!" he called through the crevice to the prisoners. "I hear
                        horsemen. Keep a good heart. I will have you forth by daybreak, if the
                        saints help me!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    JUAN GARCIA MEETS THE CONDE DE LERIN
                    WHEN the boy reached the brink of the escarpment he looked
                        down upon a mounted color-bearer whose pennon waved on a level with the
                        page's eyes. It was the banner of no Spanish province. There was something
                        French in the armorial device; something French in the air and make-up of
                        the bearer. Behind this vexillary followed the private fighting force of a
                        chatelain, gallant figures harnessed á la ginete and weaponed for travel in
                        a land uncertain with war. The boy tried to count them, but the tortuous
                        line of the road stood in his way, though he could hear the sound of many
                        hoofs far up the defile from which the party was descending.
                    The color-bearer caught sight of the boy and the Irishman and drew up his
                        horse.
                    "Messire," he said, saluting, "I seek the camp of the most high monarchs
                        Ferdinand and Isabella. I was turned out of the road by a rock-fall and I do
                        not know if I have found it again. Can you lend me this fellow as my
                        guide?"
                    But a voice from the train broke in: "Hold, Jehan! It is the damoiseau's only
                        varlet!"
                    At that the boy looked down upon the most magnificent knight that he had seen
                        in all his life. Dismounted, he would have stood more than six feet, and
                        now, riding a great Flemish stallion, he towered gigantic in the gloom about
                        him. In its socket on his stirrup a lance that was a whole arm longer than
                        common stood thick and straight as a young sapling. He was incased from head
                        to foot in plate armor inlaid with niello, while his long green plumes
                        flowing from his crest and the velvet  mantle
                        floating from his shoulders were the exact shade of the hoof-length green
                        housings of his mount. The visor of his helmet was lifted, exposing to the
                        better light above him an upturned face that was most engaging, with its
                        bold, black eyes and thick brows, its resolute profile, small, waxed
                        mustache, and thin red lips.
                    "This is the road to the campo," the boy assured the knight.
                    "Thanks," said the knight. "But is not Granada in a state of war? Do not
                        young squires by habit go better attended?"
                    "There is little danger," the boy answered diffidently.
                    "But I pray you, sir—"
                    "Come down, messire! If mishaps were as infallible as boys are foolhardy
                        there had never been a man grown. The night grows apace. I lack a guide. You
                        must serve me!"
                    But the page had no intention of returning to the campo in such company. He
                        had the prisoners of the tower in mind or he would have cut off the argument
                        by retiring forthwith. But the manner of the imposing stranger was such that
                        the boy obeyed him in the matter of descending from his perch. Planting one
                        foot ahead of the other, he slid down the escarpment into the road. There
                        was a semi-darkness that did not admit of too close scrutiny.
                    "I wish to ask you—" he began again.
                    "Are you attached to his Majesty's service?" the knight broke in as the great
                        horse circled impatient of the curb.
                    "I am a page to a cleric. But—"
                    "Say your say upon the way," the knight commanded, offering his stirrup, "and
                        ride with me."
                    The boy drew back.
                    "I ride a mule," he explained.
                    "Bid your varlet fetch the mule and let us on. The night falls."
                    He reached down and swept the boy up on the pillion.
                    
                    "Gramercy! Do you call this an arm?" he laughed as his mailed fingers closed
                        with painful force over the soft flesh in his grip.
                    The boy wrenched away.
                    "A page is not a squire!" he retorted.
                    "And if hard sinews make a squire you will be a dame at seventeen," the
                        knight scoffed. "Allons, Jehan!"
                    The color-bearer set the train in motion.
                    "By your leave, sir," the boy said anxiously, "I would have my baggage. There
                        are certain things which I would not leave behind."
                    "Wait, Jehan. Sir Page would not lose sight of his pomander!"
                    The boy on the pillion winced but made no reply. The Irishman undid a roll
                        from the saddle of the gaudily caparisoned little mule that had stood in
                        somnolent repose all the time and gave it to the page.
                    "That," said the knight, nodding toward the Irishman, "is a man of no land
                        and of unknown gods."
                    The escudero was a brave figure with a bow-spring curve in his back, a pair
                        of prominent calves, and an uncommonly long arm. But his dress, as the
                        mediæval soldier was not uniformed, was the English tabard with
                        leg-wrappings, a rustic garb almost unknown in Spain. A deal of coal-black
                        hair frayed out from under an oldtime hood with liripipes, and the eye that
                        he cast up at the knight, on the latter's remark, had a twinkle in its
                        unmitigated blue.
                    "He is an Irishman," the page said.
                    "I said it," the knight declared lightly; "and to be sure, messire, are you
                        an Irishman, too?"
                    "I am a Spaniard," the boy returned sternly.
                    "What do you call yourself?"
                    The boy was plainly taken aback.
                    "Juan Garcia," he said at last. "But may I make bold to ask—"
                    "Myself, now," the knight observed, "you have taken for a Frenchman. Is it
                        not so?"
                    
                    "I have, señor."
                    "But I am not a Frenchman. I am a Spaniard. I am the King's nephew, Jaime de
                        Navarre, Conde de Lerin."
                    This fair introduction called for a courteous response from a boy so
                        evidently well-born, but it had an amazing effect upon the page. He seemed
                        suddenly struck to stone, his face averted, his mouth shaped for an
                        exclamation that he did not utter, one hand lifted; withal a picture of
                        dismay and astonishment.
                    The knight turned his head in that interval of petrified silence, but it was
                        almost dark and his inspection afforded him nothing.
                    "Certes," he said to himself, "some father must be abashed by such a she-son
                        as this. He is pretty and coy as a girl."
                    "A noble name," the boy finally murmured, "that I have ever heard clothed on
                        with honor!"
                    By this time the party had moved on down the dusky windings of the road. But
                        at a slant where the ruins of the tower lay fair above them once more the
                        horses began to show nervousness. One backed against the side of the rocky
                        defile and the man who rode it shouted something. Immediately the whole
                        column brought up. In the complete silence that fell, as the party strained
                        its hearing for the alarm, there came an echoing, disembodied voice, but
                        whether out of the sky or the hills above them, now shadow-crowned, the
                        startled train could not tell—
                    
                        "Gloria Patri, et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto,
                        Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et semper, et in sæcula
                            sæculorum! A-a-men!"
                    
                    It was twilight; the country was the wildest, lonely as the grave, sorrowful
                        with subjugation. Nothing could be more unaccountable than that chanting
                        voice in the air. As one man the column began to move. They pressed past
                        each other, with apology at first, then without ceremony, and finally in a
                        general stampede.  The hasty scramble brought
                        them around the bluff end of a spur of rock and disclosed the vast stretch
                        of the Christian camp already glowing with light. The company allowed their
                        mounts to slacken pace.
                    "Of this," the boy said to the knight, "I tried to speak at first. There is a
                        ruined tower at the spot where we met, and Christian prisoners abandoned by
                        the Moors are under the masonry. By the merest accident I found them. Part
                        of them are monks. One who hath taken the watch chanteth his Gloria with the
                        holy brethren in the dungeon. It is that which we have heard. But they are
                        starving and must be speedily rescued. I pray you speak at once to the
                        captain of the guard, since he will hear you when he would put me off. Say
                        to him that it will require engines to unbury them, for the wreck totters in
                        the wind. Have I your word?"
                    "You have," said the conde with dignity, and the boy fell again into
                        silence.
                    The flat vega covered with twilight showed here and there racing figures of
                        horsemen, and the sounds of combat with the clash of steel and the shouting
                        of antagonists came across the shadowy distance. Lerin's train, with their
                        eyes upon the glittering lights of Granada, the prize, and their hearing
                        alert for battle, the sign of its winning, trotted smartly across the plain
                        toward the Christian encampment on its bosom.
                    At the gate of the campo they rode into a broad day of torchlight and halted
                        before the bristling challenge of the formidable sentry line.
                    Lerin asked for the captain of the guard and the lad on the pillion sat very
                        close in the big knight's shadow.
                    When the officer arrived and the ceremony of identification admitting Lerin
                        and his party to the campo was over the conde said to the captain:
                    "Chevalier, there are Christian prisoners buried in the ruin of a watch-tower
                        overlooking the road from Alcalá la Real. I heard them as I passed this
                        evening. They  are starving. Take an engine,
                        for the ruin is much fallen, and send them aid forthwith."
                    "That tower was demolished yesterday!" the captain exclaimed. "Indeed they
                        will be hungry. Nay, then, my lord, I thank you for the prisoners. I shall
                        send them food and help at once."
                    Lerin's train passed into the campo.
                    Within stretched away, between two rows of lighted pavilions, a great road,
                        moving with life and perilous for the fugitive boy who sat on the pillion of
                        the great horse. But while he looked for a favorable spot at which he might
                        alight there came a great hurly-burly of cries. A general parting of folk
                        ensued, with flight in every direction. In another instant two Moors mounted
                        upon matchless horses skimmed like birds over the summit of the bulwarks and
                        alighted among the Christians.
                    Had they been hawks among poultry or eagles among sheep, the stampede would
                        not have been more helpless. As servidores, children, dames, and unarmed
                        courtiers fled to cover, the knights and soldiers flew to arms. But the
                        Moors had other intent than a hand-to-hand combat. They plunged rowel into
                        the sides of their Arabs and raced through the scurry of Christians toward
                        the Queen's pavilion.
                    By the time the rally occurred among the amazed cavaliers the Moors had
                        reached the cordon of royal guards. Before that unflinching array of picked
                        chivalry the invaders hauled up their mounts.
                    One, as black as a negro and as huge as some afrit of his own mythology, rose
                        in his saddle and launched a spear at the Queen's tent. It stuck, quivering,
                        into the earth within the entrance of the royal house.
                    The other, brandishing shield and cimeter, stretched his mouth and wagged his
                        crinkled beard and howled revilings at the cavaliers who were bearing down
                        upon them.
                    Then the Moors, having delivered their taunt, started back over their path,
                        riding down assailants, hurling  insults, and
                        slashing clear a retreat to the point of entry.
                    It seemed that they were to reach the bulwarks unharmed.
                    They passed twenty paces from Lerin, about whose big, gray Fleming the press
                        of women and children formed an effectual blockade to a charge upon the
                        Moors. But he was the nearest mounted knight and the eyes of the campo were
                        upon him.
                    He seized his great lance from its socket, rose like a tower of steel in his
                        stirrups, and with consummate skill hurled the ashen beam.
                    It was a long throw and a mighty one. But the conde's impeccable aim caught
                        the reviler in the back. His horse rose at the bulwarks and cleared them
                        without him. For he stayed as he had been pinioned to the earth, like a
                        skewered wolf, with the great lance through his body.
                    Dislodged by the conde's movement, the boy picked himself up out of the dust
                        and sped like a pursued creature into the darkness of the farther camp
                        ground.
                    He knew the place as a bird knows the air. Flitting from shadow to shadow,
                        circling hurrying folk, dodging private sentry lines, cutting across vacant
                        places, he finally brought up at the rear of a line of tents, among
                        stable-yards, kitchens, and the general undress portion of the campo.
                    There, among the litter common to a fifteenth-century community, was a big,
                        abandoned lombard.
                    It was an experiment in that era when ordnance was new; a thing built of
                        hoops and slats of steel, with a maw as big as a wine-vat. It had been fired
                        once. After the trial it had been relegated to back yards, where grooms hung
                        harness over it or maids spread their private wash upon it or birds built
                        nests in it or anything happened to it that may overtake a mechanical
                        failure.
                    When the page came up to the lombard he stopped to study the movement of the
                        warder about a big, dimly  lighted pavilion
                        near by. But there was a sound and a movement behind him and the startled
                        boy whirled toward the abandoned lombard. From its depths issued a courteous
                        greeting.
                    "Give you good den, Doña Antonia," a child's voice said. "I thought you were
                        a man."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III
                    "TO WATCH HIM PASS!"
                    "GIVE you good den, José!" the young person thus addressed
                        responded promptly. "How goes it with Antonia's preux chevalier?"
                    "Right well, thank you. But anybody would know that you are a
                        demoiselle."
                    "Wrong! A big knight rode with me a league and called me a damoiseau and
                        laughed at my little muscle," the girl said. "But I must call you cavalier
                        instead of chevalier, because you speak more of Spanish than French. But
                        what make you in this piece? Some caballero full of aguardiente will load a
                        charge of powder behind you and fire José as a salvo to her Majesty!"
                    "I can see your eyes," the boy commented, "though it is dark all around. Like
                        little wax tapers they are."
                    "Eyes! Say naught of eyes to me! I saw a pair of eyes through a crack this
                        evening that I can see yet! But where is your ama, José?"
                    "I went away while she was watching Don Alonso de Quintanilla's portero
                        neglect his business."
                    "Aha! And what will your lady mother say? But, José, let us have a
                        secret."
                    "Well."
                    "Let us call it a secret that you thought that I was a man."
                    "Well. And let us have another secret. Let us say it is a secret that I am in
                        the lombard."
                    "Capital! But what make you there? Come down, gossip! You will besmirch your
                        pretty doublet."
                    "That is the rest of the secret. I am here to see my father ride in."
                    
                    "Oh!" exclaimed the girl, remonstrating. "Your father is a blessed
                        saint!"
                    "Non, and that he is not," the child observed placidly.
                    "But, José, I am shocked!" the girl insisted, crossing herself. "Your father
                        has been a blessed saint these three years."
                    "Go ask my lady mother," the boy's level voice went on. "She will tell you
                        what. He is coming to wed a maid for a duchy. My lady mother hath had sparks
                        in her eyes all day and the varlets and I have stayed out for cause."
                    Antonia reached up her hands while she laughed and drew the youngling out of
                        the rusty depths of the lombard.
                    "What moonshine! You must be asleep. Saints! What a monstrous big lad you
                        are! I never saw so big a four-year-old!"
                    "Oh, ay! Last year I was a little baby and wore a clout. Next year I shall
                        have whiskers like the Marques de Cadiz. But this year I am going to climb
                        the ribbing of the new pavilion down the calle."
                    "Doubtless! And you will smash yourself like a carnival egg likewise. Will
                        you go back to your ama now? You can see nothing from this old lombard.
                        Methinks an howlet lives here with eyes as big as a plate!"
                    "No; you cannot frighten me! I am bound to see my father."
                    "Addle-pate! Well, I am off! Two Moors jumped the bulwarks a moment since and
                        threw a spear at the Queen's house. You had better get to quarters. And,
                        hark you! We two have a secret. Keep it close. Give you good den, fair
                        sir!"
                    "Adieu, demoiselle. I kiss your hand. When my father comes I will halloo for
                        you to look sharp."
                    Boldly she marched up to the warder who kept a post at the rear of the
                        tent.
                    "Moya and Castile!" she said. "Message for her ladyship!"
                    
                    "Pass!" said the warder. "But when do you expect to find her ladyship in the
                        scullery, boy?"
                    Without deigning to answer, the girl vanished within the big tent.
                    The apartment she entered was partly lighted and a man and woman in servant's
                        dress bent over a table in a corner. They looked up, but the girl flitted
                        past into a great, dark chamber smelling of roses and on through stiff arras
                        into a smaller enclosure at one side.
                    Here, in a glimmer from the torches on the roadway, sifting through the
                        fabric of the pavilion, she opened the roll that she carried and, disrobing
                        in haste, got into women's dress. Then she found tinder and steel and
                        lighted a candle. Rolling up the garments that she had worn, she opened a
                        brass-bound chest, tossed in the dress, and relocked the lid upon them. She
                        snapped the key upon the ring taken from a gipsire hanging at her girdle and
                        turned then to the task of unpinning her hair.
                    Even for a fifteenth-century maid, used to bloodshed, warfare, and precarious
                        living, this had been an eventful day for Antonia de Aragon.
                    She shook down her hair, frowning at the little puff of dust from it, and,
                        reflectively touching her cheek, estimated the amount of sunburn. She had
                        taken up a box of ointment, when her meditations moved her to lay it down
                        again until she had knelt and murmured a prayer for the dead Juan
                        Garcia.
                    "Nay," she said, "his soul may rest. I did his bidding. Surely, I should come
                        scatheless for seeking to give a dead youth peace. It will be to the
                        advantage of the Jews to keep silent. The prisoner owing his liberty to me
                        should not betray me."
                    After a steady contemplation of her candle, during which in rapid succession
                        the events of the afternoon passed before her, she showed a flame of
                        color.
                    "And the knight is none other than the Conde de Lerin! My Lerin! Certes, Don
                        Ferdinand hath mated me nobly!"
                    
                    But even in the flush of her pleasure she saw again the hazel eyes of the
                        prisoner who had been buried two days in hunger and distress.
                    "I wish I could know if the captain of the guard hath kept his word," she
                        worried.
                    Under the revealing ray of the candle, as she rose to her mirror once more,
                        it was to be seen that she was a beautiful woman. Her brows, like her hair,
                        were brilliant-black and abundant, and truly Spanish in their long sweep
                        from the lateral line of her small nose across a perfect arch down to the
                        outer corner of heavily fringed, liquid gray eyes. Her upper lip was short,
                        affording the illumination of her white teeth to her speech, and the youth
                        and health of her young body had their best expression in the tender, moist
                        red of her mouth. She had flourished under another kind of nurture than
                        usually attended a gentlewoman of mediæval Spain. She had followed the Queen
                        through ten years of warfare, growing taller and more lithe than the
                        home-keeping Spaniard while still she retained the deep bosom and lovely
                        outline of body that stamps the Spanish woman.
                    While she laid a sheer white crespine over her head and bound it with a
                        ribbon, the swift patter of straw sandals sounded on the planking of the
                        pavilion floor without and a tirewoman thrust her head within the small
                        compartment.
                    "God be praised!" she cried loudly. "Here she is, madame!"
                    She drew back quickly and in her place appeared a gentlewoman in a
                        black-and-white brocade foot-mantle and a plumed hat, with the dust of the
                        road still upon her. Her small, piquant features were undergoing at that
                        moment the change between intense anxiety and intense relief, and when she
                        beheld Antonia coming toward her with open arms she cried out with a gust of
                        feeling:
                    "I said it! I knew that you could not be dead!"
                    "No, doña marquesa, I was only lost," Antonia said.
                    
                    "Lost! Oh! And all the way from the mountains I have been praying for courage
                        to face Don Ferdinand with the tidings that you had been killed!"
                    "No. I was carried, mule and all, down into a ravine by the rock-fall. When I
                        picked myself up there was a soldier pulling himself out of the earth
                        near—"
                    "Was that escudero with you? Then we are all found. But do you call to mind
                        that converso, Juan Garcia, who was messenger to Calcena? Alas, poor boy, he
                        was killed!"
                    Antonia looked away quickly, and after a little silence the marquesa went
                        on.
                    "We found him composed. He had doubtless prepared himself for death and
                        passed without a struggle. We spent all afternoon digging in the landslip
                        for you."
                    "I could not climb out of the ravine; all about the earth trembled to another
                        fall." Antonia resumed her narrative. "There was not even sight or sound of
                        the convoy. So I rode down the ravine with the escudero until it finally led
                        out upon a little plain. It must have been miles from the convoy. There was
                        a road at the foot of the plain, and from our position we could see that it
                        led on to the campo. So we came home."
                    "That was right!" declared the marquesa. "The best way out of an
                        embarrassment."
                    After a silence Antonia asked in a lowered voice: "Did they bring poor Juan
                        on to the campo?"
                    "No; we sent his body back to Alcalá la Real. He has people who were to be
                        considered."
                    Presently the women loosed their arms from about each other.
                    "Strange that you should get lost so close to the convoy!" the marquesa
                        observed.
                    "If you could have seen the tangle into which I tumbled," Antonia answered
                        cryptically.
                    The marquesa clapped her hands and, when the tirewoman reappeared, turned her
                        ward over to the servant.
                    "Make well, wench," the lady commanded. "She 
                        must be especially handsome to-night. I go to relieve her Majesty's
                        anxiety."
                    Without, Antonia heard her sending a message to the Queen to the effect that
                        Doña Antonia de Aragon was safe.
                    "But how she could have been lost—" were the last words Antonia
                        heard as the marquesa's velvets trailed away into silence.
                    "So much dust!" complained the tirewoman. "So much sunburn! Such a life will
                        take the tenderness of womanhood away. I would have this war over that my
                        dear may live like, a lady and not like a veteran!"
                    "But this is living!" Antonia protested. "Alas! To be mewed within thick
                        walls with no livelier entertainment than thrumming a rebec or hearing a
                        donzel read to me or having a man make me compliments under the marquesa's
                        eye!"
                    "As to that, my lady," the servant said, "the day is near!"
                    Then Antonia dropped her eyes and idly intertwined her fingers, while the
                        smiling woman labored lovingly over the toilet believing that she knew all
                        that colored her mistress's cheek.
                    Although eighteen years of age, Antonia de Aragon was still unmarried, for
                        the very good reason that the King had reserved her for a specific and
                        important alliance. Northeast of Spain lay the small kingdom of Navarre,
                        precariously held by a Spanish queen and a French consort and as wishfully
                        regarded by the two great nations whose blood tinctured that of the feeble
                        Navarrese sovereigns as eagles regard a lamb. Upheaval was hourly imminent
                        in that little, three-cornered domain, and Don Ferdinand, whose family
                        claims were sufficiently sound to render likely a reversion of Navarre to
                        its ancient liege, Aragon, under proper circumstances, had resolved to
                        initiate his plans thereto by a marriage between his ward and niece, Antonia
                        de Aragon, and the leader of the most powerful faction in Navarre, the Conde
                        de Lerin.
                    
                    With sundry little finishing pats the tirewoman indicated Antonia's
                        reflection in the Venetian mirror. But at that moment there was a soft
                        rustle in the large chamber without, attended by light laughter and
                        lowspoken words. The arras was thrust aside and the newcomer, all flushed
                        with animation, was reflected in the glass before Antonia.
                    Here was the loveliest of all the infanta's lovely train, Doña Sancha de
                        Guzman, daughter of the Señor of Batres and granddaughter of Enrique de
                        Guzman, the great Duque de Medina-Sidonia. Some fair-haired Goth, wedded to
                        the line, had introduced a coloring that reappeared in this sixteen-year-old
                        descendant and stamped upon her a name that identified her all over Spain.
                        She had a transparent complexion, with rose tint in her cheeks and marble
                        whiteness of brow and throat, and her eyes were as blue as heaven. But her
                        hair, drooping loose and unadorned below her waist, her brows, and her
                        lashes were a yellow gold, so bright and so conspicuous among the
                        dark-haired damsels of the train that she was dubbed "the golden damsel" to
                        the almost complete extinction of her real name. The description was
                        particularly happy since it covered her fortune and her smile, and the power
                        of her whole personality was as humbly admitted by the campo as it was
                        candidly acknowledged by the damsel herself.
                    She wore a kirtle of sapphire-blue sarcenet, closely fitting the bust, waist,
                        and hips, but falling voluminously to the floor. Her pinner of transparent
                        white stuff, the undersleeves of lawn, and the hip-girdle of gold completed
                        a typical costume of the hour and achieved a kind of brilliance upon her
                        blond loveliness.
                    "Good!" she exclaimed, catching Antonia's shoulder and shaking her. "All
                        caparisoned for the fray as if she knew that he was at the door."
                    "Who is 'he'?" Antonia asked with composure.
                    "Who but his lordship the Conde de Lerin! Run!"
                    "My faith! Why should I run? Let him run!"
                    
                    "Oh and ah! Do you hear that, damsels and good ladies all? Sweetheart, the
                        man never ran in his life except to escape more ladies than he could love at
                        the same time."
                    "If you run not," put in another voice, that was much deeper and older, "you
                        will be left so far behind that you will have to find your position with a
                        cross-staff, as Colon explains is the way with ships—that, is when
                        he can get any one to listen to him."
                    In the parting of the arras stood Leonor de la Cerda, of the lordly house of
                        Medina-Celi, a magnificent Spaniard with masses of dead-black hair, large,
                        sombre, smouldering eyes, a smooth ivory complexion without relief of color
                        except in the red of her full, unsmiling lips.
                    "How now! It would seem that it was I who had come a-wooing instèad of
                        Lerin!" Antonia declared.
                    "It is that you must do," the golden damsel vowed. "Or if you will not he
                        will never miss you. They say that he threw a lance a hundred feet through a
                        Moor, in the dark! Let us see them of the exploits match it if they
                        can."
                    "Can it be," said Antonia, with her head upon one side, "that Don Garcilaso
                        is within hearing? None ever heard her so praise a knight except to that
                        good gentleman's discomfiture."
                    "He is," said Francesca Ponce, appearing with the Marquesa de Moya at that
                        moment. "He is just without this spot, and she knows that her voice carries
                        like a shepherd's pipe through these fabric walls."
                    "Enough!" said the marquesa. "Antonia, the Conde de Lerin approaches, and it
                        is but right that you should see him before he sees you. It will give me and
                        your young friends pleasure to be with you, then."
                    Antonia colored swiftly.
                    "Doña marquesa, the camp is so open and the road so full of torches. I would
                        right heartily see him, but—"
                    "I have prepared for all that," said the marquesa.
                    
                    "I have given command that the torches near this tent be extinguished. It is
                        quite dark. We shall be very quiet. No one but ourselves will know."
                    "You have but little time to lose," the golden damsel admonished when
                        Antonia, with lowered head, stood still.
                    "He hath made his obeisances to their Majesties, and the tent of Quintanilla,
                        with whom he will lodge, is very near to this one," the marquesa added. "He
                        is doubtless way-weary and will come to his quarters at once."
                    Antonia looked from one to another of the maidens about her, each of whom was
                        evincing signs of keen enjoyment of her embarrassment. Lifelong friends to
                        each other, they had been maids of honor to the Infanta Juanna from the
                        royal maiden's birth. Because of their hardihood and decorum they had been
                        picked to follow the Queen on her Majesty's campaigns throughout the Moorish
                        wars, and had been liberated gradually and almost involuntarily from the
                        Oriental seclusion that about the end of the fifteenth century began to be
                        adopted from the Moors.
                    Their equal development into larger abilities because of their liberty had
                        identified them with each other to the nobles of the camp, to whom their
                        attractions were immensely grateful. They escaped the usual opprobrious
                        title, "mugeres varoniles" ("man-women"), and were designated under a signal
                        classification, "the knightly maids."
                    But they had reached the age when marriage was speedily taking them off.
                        Twice within that year Antonia de Aragon had added her own mite of torment
                        to the embarrassment of a newly betrothed damsel, and she faced their
                        revenge at last.
                    "Oh, ay!" she said. "I submit! I have had my pleasure at the same game. And I
                        will have it again."
                    She threw a meaning look at the golden damsel, the solitary unbetrothed of
                        the four knightly damsels.
                    "Methinks, since I have laid eyes upon the Conde de  Lerin," retorted Doña Sancha, "that you may, indeed, and soon
                        at that!"
                    "Well said!" declared Francesca Ponce. "It is never regular to allow a maid
                        to be too confident."
                    "Yes! What with the mischief of meddling women and the havoc of war," said
                        Leonor gloomily, "no maid can call her betrothed her own until after the
                        sacrament is tasted!"
                    "Leonor will never forget that she lost Beltran," whispered Francesca to
                        Antonia. "An old lover is one of your truly unforgettable things!"
                    "Death hath played many a maid such a disservice," the marquesa said in an
                        undertone, "in the last ten years. Santiago and the Holy Virgin grant us an
                        end to this war some day!"
                    They had reached the entrance to the big pavilion and pages parted the
                        canvas. A warder without changed his position that the women might have
                        uninterrupted view of the campo beyond him.
                    Outside it was night and almost cold. The torches were extinguished within a
                        wide area of the Moya tent, and the unlighted space was full of soldiers,
                        attendants, and riding knights. Through the darkness hummed the drone of
                        voices from within the tents stretched in translucent rows over acres of
                        encampment.
                    Presently Don Alonso de Quintanilla, attended by his chamberlain, rode up
                        and, dismounting, entered a great pavilion near by that glowed like a pearl
                        from the lights within.
                    Then followed the tread of some great horse and with it the musical ring of
                        whetting mail.
                    "He comes," whispered the marquesa.
                    Out of the push and hurry of persons, two dismounted squires stopped at
                        Quintanilla's tent. A moment after, the Conde de Lerin rode slowly up and
                        halted his horse so close to the Moya pavilion that the wind from the
                        swinging housings moved Antonia's hair.
                    From their lowly position the women looked up at  the great, dim shape, now motionless like a statue in the night. He was a
                        warrior returned from long years of fighting for victorious causes all over
                        the wonderful world. He was of the blood of kings, beautiful with strength
                        and maturity and wisdom and experience, favored with stature and comely
                        features, and invested by conquest and inheritance with rank and dignity.
                        From the ensemble emanated for them the potent charm of a stranger who had
                        come from afar to love and be loved.
                    That she had met her suitor before that moment did not abate Antonia's
                        feelings. She had seen him in an attitude wholly ungoverned by form and
                        artificiality. She had felt the might of his great sword-arm; had put her
                        hands on his strong body when they had descended rapidly from the hills. She
                        had witnessed his remarkable feat at arms when he had been totally
                        unconscious that his lady was beholding it. And all of this advantage
                        invested her regard of him now with a certain sweet intimacy, furnished real
                        material for speculation and little thrills of feeling. Would he know her?
                        Should she tell him all? What would he say in that French enunciation of the
                        Castilian that eliminated the lisp and substituted a slow and careful
                        pronunciation of every syllable, and how would he say it when he reproached
                        her for her boldness and prayed pardon for his rude manner toward her,
                        thinking her a boy?
                    But Quintanilla's portero lighted a link at that minute to show his master's
                        distinguished guest into his quarters. The broad flame struck across the
                        conde and fell squarely upon the group of women at the opening of the Moya
                        pavilion.
                    Then the golden Sancha de Guzman, after years of following the wars and
                        gaining self-control, was seized with a mischievous impulse that was not to
                        leave her for a long time.
                    She uttered a little feminine shriek as foreign to her nature as it would
                        have been to Lerin's. The conde turned instantly and discovered the
                        spectators.
                    
                    Leonor de la Cerda, who on account of her superior height stood farther back
                        in the group, fled at once. Antonia sprang to her feet to conceal the
                        marquesa until she could retire, and so was caught with Francesca Ponce and
                        the golden Sancha.
                    Lerin was not long in guessing that the group that the link betrayed was
                        there for the simple purpose of admiring him. He saluted them with a motion
                        of his mailed hand and flash of his white teeth. But his examining gaze fell
                        first upon Antonia, travelled over her fine figure, passed then to
                        Francesca, who had hidden her rust-red head and milk-white complexion in the
                        bend of her arm, and lastly to the laughing, radiant, lovely Guzman, and
                        there it stayed while into his black eyes crept a soft, surprised, delighted
                        look that the golden Sancha never failed to elicit from a certain type of
                        men.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    THE CAPTIVE'S STORY
                    LONG before sunrise the next morning there appeared on the
                        Camino Ancho—the broad road—within the campo, a disordered
                        body of soldiery, common laborers, camp-followers, and knights pressing and
                        pushing to see.
                    The excitement centred about forty bleached, longbearded tatterdemalions who
                        had been brought in from the ruins of the tower on the road to Alcalá la
                        Real.
                    Thirty of the prisoners proved to be monks from a priory, captured by the
                        Moors at a single raid. These, during all the dreary years of their
                        imprisonment, had maintained the offices of their order and had emerged
                        monks in perfect training, though there were no marks of the ecclesiastic
                        left in their appearance.
                    Nine of the rest were commons picked up one at a time as they fell in with
                        marauding bands of infidels. Thus nine-and-thirty of the group had been
                        valueless captives supported, with such support as it was, and housed for
                        years at the expense of their captors without a single advantage to the
                        Moors except the satisfaction which they derived in holding Christians in
                        confinement.
                    But the fortieth man was an exception in every way to the tremulous,
                        half-blind company. He showed by the state of his garments and the ruddy
                        color of his complexion that he had been very recently confined. Moreover,
                        he still retained an appreciation of a plight which had long since ceased to
                        move the others to any embarrassment.
                    He was a very slender, graceful young man of average height, conspicuous for
                        an abundance of dark-red  hair, and hazel eyes.
                        There was an indefinable air of blood and breeding about him, and he was ill
                        at ease exposed to the common stare of knights and knaves.
                    He beckoned to a groom gaping at the edge of the crowd and, after a whispered
                        question, sent him flying with a message.
                    The captain of the guard was leading his rescued forty toward the Queen's
                        Hospital, well within the heart of the campo, when without the precincts of
                        the royal pavilion the King rode up cap-a-pie. He halted the party and the
                        crowd dispersed to a respectful distance to allow him to question the
                        prisoners.
                    But captives resurrected from Moorish dungeons had become far too common
                        within Christian lines for Don Ferdinand to expend the same detailed inquiry
                        upon them that he had done in earlier years.
                    The King drew up his horse and ran an appraising eye over the group, lighting
                        finally upon the slender young man with the dark-red hair. There the King's
                        gaze rested. The face of this liberated captive brought back to him, as it
                        did to many others in the crowd, the fleeting image of an identity that he
                        could not fix. The royal eye passed down over the Moslem burnoose bound with
                        three windings of a scarf about the supple middle.
                    "It were not kindness, Christians," said the monarch, in his penetrating
                        tenor voice, "to ask you to tell your story while you are enfeebled and ill.
                        I know you by report to be followers of the true faith which binds me to
                        your care. However, if you will make yourselves known to my secretary, he
                        will take prompt steps to find your friends and return you to your
                        homes."
                    While he spoke thus and the scribe fell immediately busy with pen and tablet,
                        Don Ferdinand had not withdrawn his keen, small blue eye from the young man
                        with the red hair.
                    Roderigo Ponce de Leon, Marques-Duque de Cadiz, with Don Luis Ponce de Leon,
                        Señor de Villagarcia, rode up on their way to the barraca. The groom, on  tiptoe, pointed out to the two nobles the
                        young man who had asked for them. But by this time the King had raised his
                        hand and signed to the young man to approach.
                    The crowd hurried out of his way, and before Don Ferdinand the released
                        captive made, with the ease of long usage, a courtier's obeisance.
                    "Who are you?" the King asked in a low tone.
                    "I am Beltran Ponce de Leon," the young man answered so that only the King
                        heard him.
                    "Exactly!" Don Ferdinand exclaimed.
                    None had heard what the rescued prisoner had said to the King. But the mere
                        arrival of Roderigo Ponce de Leon, Marques-Duque de Cadiz, had identified
                        his nephew by comparison. The red hair of the Ponces and the marked
                        similarity of feature between the marques and the interesting young stranger
                        established the captive's identity suddenly and beyond a doubt.
                    Like true courtiers, the marques and the young Señor de Villagarcia, after
                        the first electrified spring of their muscles, held themselves in check
                        until their monarch had done. But over the florid face of the marques swept
                        a flood of feeling that he could not control.
                    Don Ferdinand made no punctilious remark. Over the crowd was mounting a
                        murmur tending toward an outbreak. The tactful King was with it. He threw
                        his mailed hand aloft.
                    "One more home from Axarquia!" he cried. "Hail him, Christians, all!"
                    The murmur was now a roar that erupted in a shout reaching the far corners of
                        the great encampment. The marques, with true Andalusian ardor, leaped from
                        his horse and wrapped his nephew in his big embrace.
                    But the shout died suddenly. After it came the sigh. The battle of Axarquia
                        had been a national tragedy. Led on by this same Marques de Cadiz, a great
                        army of picked Christian troops had entered the mountains near Antiquera to
                        do battle with the infidel, and of that thrice-puissant host but a handful
                        had ever returned.  The ravines and
                        mountainsides were sown with dead. For a quarter of a century
                        fagot-gatherers found skeletons and scattered bones behind rocks and shrubs
                        and in caves all over the scene of the massacre. Moorish prisons captured by
                        the advancing Christian arms had continued to give up knights and squires
                        for years. But in their hearts that company gathered around this returned
                        captive knew that he would be the last to come home from Axarquia.
                    "I bid you welcome," the King said formally. "Spain hath need of your right
                        arm and your loyal heart. Sir" —to Roderigo Ponce de
                        Leon—"I congratulate you. God hath had pity on your desolate
                        house."
                    He shook his bridle, the way opened, and he passed on, his short, stout
                        figure with its stamp of kingship carried high by his great horse over the
                        shoulders of the crowd and his gallant company of gentlemen riding
                        after.
                    The nine-and-thirty monks and commons were led on to the Queen's Hospital.
                        The crowd of onlookers melted. The marques gave his horse to a squire, as
                        did young Villagarcia, and together the two nobles and the restored Ponce de
                        Leon proceeded afoot to the Ponce pavilion.
                    Here, amid the press of old retainers marvelling over the grown man that had
                        returned in place of the slim lad who had left them eight years before, he
                        was received by the marquesa, who embraced him and wept over him, and he was
                        then carried away into the interior of the big pavilion and fed to
                        repletion. Afterward a squire was summoned and the returned captive was sent
                        into a masculine apartment to be made over for the inspection of friends,
                        who were already beginning to crowd the grande sala.
                    The young Señor de Villagarcia, who was a Ponce of the legitimate branch, and
                        to whom the marques was a natural uncle and the restored captive a natural
                        cousin, had stood, up until the hour which returned Beltran Ponce de Leon to
                        liberty, as the logical heir to the titles  of
                        the marques-duque. Beltran Ponce de Leon, in the hands of the squire who
                        habited the released captive in some of young Villagarcia's garments,
                        bethought him of the sudden altering of his natural cousin's prospects and
                        waited Villagarcia's reappearance with considerable interest. By the time
                        the squire had completed a truly transforming toilet the young señor
                        entered.
                    Said Beltran to his cousin: "I have been eight years in
                        captivity—eight years in another world, in a different life.
                        Whatever you have to tell me will be news."
                    "Cousin, eight years of warfare furnish more news than anything else of which
                        I can think. Maps, dynasties, races—all have changed. Briefly, the
                        war is in its last quarter, but unless some marvel works an aid to our
                        banner it will be a long quarter. Yet the monarchs already see the rise of
                        new affairs above the horizon. The King, methinks, plans an offense to
                        France. At least he hath invited the Conde de Lerin to come to Spain and wed
                        his niece. The espousal of the leader of the Beaumontese to Aragon means an
                        affront to Agramont and to King Jehanne of Navarre. The Queen, good mother
                        to her army, continues to fill our stomachs, cover our backs, and inspire
                        our arms, and so incur the especial wrath of the infidel. Her next move is
                        against Barbary and the Holy Land. But, change? By our lady, everything is
                        changed—leaders, boundaries, favorites. It will be a new Spain to
                        you, Beltran."
                    "Nay, then, for the next month I shall go ignorantly and take learning as it
                        comes to me. Eight years may be as fateful in their results from separation.
                        I do not hope for cheerful news, but pray you give me what word you can of
                        Doña Leonor."
                    "Alas, cousin, I must give you pain! She was betrothed to Roderick de Mendoza
                        this very month."
                    "Alas, Luis! is it so?" Beltran exclaimed, while an expression of the utmost
                        relief overspread his countenance.
                    
                    "Gramercy! Wouldst have her mourn for you longer than eight years?"
                        Villagarcia chuckled, with his eyes full of understanding.
                    "Nay; but why so long? Were there no other men in Spain?"
                    "Verdad! But no more young Ponces."
                    Beltran faced his cousin. "Am I the last?" he asked in sorrow.
                    "The last of the marques's branch. The war hath taken heavy toll from your
                        redoubtable line."
                    "And that is what the King meant!" Beltran said after a silence. "Surely that
                        house purchases the honor with its blood that aspires to be the right arm of
                        a king."
                    "Well," he resumed finally, "I shall manfully accept the loss that no man
                        could prevent—kinsmen, lady, and all."
                    "Not all!" Villagarcia observed sententiously, with an unconscious shrug of
                        his shoulders. "There are the titles-the estates."
                    "Cousin, there are other things that I had rather have," returned Beltran
                        promptly, "and I cannot have my choice and the titles too. Rest you! I have
                        not returned to supplant you."
                    Villagarcia, with a lightening face, laid his hand on his cousin's
                        shoulder.
                    "You were ever a sore rebel, Beltran, against law and precedent. I am not at
                        all surprised to hear you fillip away power and station as if they were
                        pebbles. Come, now; was not your sole objection to Leonor the fact that you
                        were commanded to wed her?"
                    Beltran smiled, and Villagarcia went on immediately: "But you and I will have
                        no quarrel, whatever the succession!"
                    The pair passed through the curtain that separated the small chamber from the
                        passage, and Beltran saw approaching, from some inner portion of the great
                        pavilion, a light-footed girl with rust-red hair and goldstone eyes.
                    
                    With murmured thanks for the room the young men gave her, she would have
                        passed on, when Beltran said: "Stay, noble damsel! You bear the banner of
                        our marked house, never perhaps so sweetly modified, but undeniably one with
                        mine. Pray you, Doña Francesca, full blossom of the baby bud I left eight
                        years ago, know me as Beltran Ponce de Leon and call me kinsman."
                    "Greeting, cousin, and welcome home," she said gravely. "We Ponces be few
                        enough, God wot. Be assured that the sole remnant up to this hour is
                        rejoiced at your return."
                    "Saints!" Beltran exclaimed, kissing her hand. "Had I dreamed that so pretty
                        a speech on such sweet lips awaited me at home, my captivity would have
                        chafed me full sore."
                    Villagarcia, with growing resentment at this interchange of warm regard, took
                        Francesca's hand and drew it through his arm.
                    "Oho!" cried Beltran. "That was a wise resolution of mine to proceed
                        ignorantly and get learning as it came to me. I shall say whatever my heart
                        inspires to every lovely damsel in the campo till what time I discover by
                        clouds on the horizon whose rights I trespass."
                    "Ay, and you will come swift and ill-conditioned to the Queen's Hospital,"
                        Villagarcia declared. "My brother cavaliers are not so long-suffering as
                        I!"
                    The marques appeared at the forward end of the passage and came toward
                        them.
                    "We must have your story, Beltran," he said, while his brown eye lighted
                        pleasurably at sight of his nephew's transformed appearance; "else the
                        sitters without will camp all day with us."
                    "Lead on, my lord," said Beltran, and, as the marques gave his arm to
                        Francesca, Beltran rejoined Villagarcia.
                    "Tell me," he said, "is there a damsel with black hair and gray eyes in her
                        Majesty's following?"
                    "A tall maid with nice shoulders?"
                    
                    "She may be," said Beltran, recalling that man's dress does no justice to a
                        woman's form.
                    "There is," said Villagarcia. "One of the 'knightly-maids," as we call them.
                        Antonia de Aragon; as puissant and handsome a damsel as ever rode a
                        palfrey."
                    "Do I know her of old?"
                    "Perhaps not. She was only a child when you went into Axarquia. But you will
                        remember her family as that related to the King which was ruined by Calcena
                        at the time of the murder of Arbues, ten years ago."
                    "Ah!"
                    The chromatic inflection in the exclamation showed that there had fallen an
                        increasing light upon some problem in the young man's mind.
                    "She is the niece whom Don Ferdinand means to wed to the Conde de Lerin,"
                        Villagarcia added.
                    "Claimed, is she? Well enough. Shall we go on?"
                    The tent occupied by the Marques de Cadiz was a marvellous affair fashioned
                        wholly of heavy silk cloth. Its many chambers were cut off from the one set
                        apart as the grande sala by curtains fringed with gold bullion and supported
                        by spears.
                    Because of the presence of the marquesa and her damsels with her lord, the
                        rich pavilion had been converted from a warrior's camp shelter to one as
                        nearly as possible like the great hall of a baronial castle.
                    At one end, with the drapings of a rich canopy over it, was the raised
                        estrada, covered with Moorish rugs and furnished with Gothic seats
                        throne-like in their dignity. Down the centre of the flooring ran a wide
                        strip of carpet upon which the great table was set up at times of feasts and
                        over which those who formally approached the marques-duque were led. Above,
                        from the ribbing of the great tent, hung silver lamps by chains, and
                        suspended from the centre and side poles were Moorish shields, axes, swords,
                        and spears captured by the redoubtable marques's own hands, and the banners
                        of cities and lords that he had taken.
                    
                    There was a scent of perfume in the air, and the estrada was filled with
                        dames and damsels, and at their feet sat nobles upon ottomans and stools,
                        and in the background pages and squires hovered ready to attend upon the
                        smallest wish of the nobles whom they served.
                    Besides the friends of the marques and the friends of his dead father and his
                        own friends who had gathered to bid him welcome, Beltran Ponce de Leon found
                        awaiting him an informal deputation from the sovereigns. One of these was
                        Fray Diego de Deza, tutor to the Infante Juan. He was a simple, mild prelate
                        with fine, soft, white hair and a thin, pale face full of refinement and
                        holiness. The other was a yellow-skinned cleric with black eyes of startling
                        brilliance and cruelty, with a nose high and thin and beaked, and a bitter
                        mouth dragged at the corners, showing long, narrow, discolored teeth. He was
                        repellently ugly and repellently smiling. This was Juan Royz de Calcena, the
                        most dangerous and detested man in the royal ensemble, although Ferdinand's
                        secretary of inquisitorial affairs, whose influence over the King was so
                        certain that it had been converted into a marketable article.
                    There under the canopy was the Marquesa de Cadiz, a homely woman over whose
                        features was written goodness of the type that would move her to mother her
                        husband's illegitimate child. Beside her was the dainty, gorgeous,
                        self-satisfied Marquesa de Moya, and at the feet of the two gentlewomen sat
                        Francesca Ponce de Leon and another maid, who had gray eyes and black hair
                        and nice shoulders and was tall and otherwise qualified to fit a description
                        as the handsomest and most puissant maid that ever rode a palfrey.
                    When Beltran's eyes fell upon this girl it required manful effort on his part
                        to keep recognition out of his face. Truly this was the boy whom he had
                        watched with such interest that he had almost sacrificed his chance to
                        escape from the ruins; the boy whose dangerous conference he had overheard;
                        into whose clear  gray eyes he had looked at
                        the ruins and whose courage had effected his rescue at the risk of exposure
                        and had restored him to liberty and his rightful place in Spain once
                        more.
                    She acknowledged his greeting briefly when he was presented to her, but did
                        not raise her eyes.
                    "This is the Conde de Lerin," the marques was saying, "whom you may thank for
                        your liberty, nephew."
                    With a further accession of wonder, Beltran turned to see a statuesque
                        nobleman extending a hand.
                    Lerin! That was the lord whom Villagarcia had named as the suitor for the
                        hand of Antonia de Aragon. In an instant it flashed over Beltran's mind that
                        the conde had saved his lady-love an embarrassing explanation by claiming to
                        have discovered the prisoners himself.
                    "Nay, I was ready to call it a small matter until I see what a goodly
                        gentleman I have restored to Spain," Lerin observed, turning to his seat
                        again.
                    With his mind full of speculation, Beltran but perfunctorily greeted the best
                        of his father's friends, Don Alonso de Quintanilla, the King's auditor.
                    "Thou son of thy father!" Quintanilla exclaimed in a low voice.
                    "More like my brother than like me," the marques admitted regretfully.
                    The auditor looked from the slender young man to the robust nobleman and
                        smiled.
                    Don Roderigo Ponce de Leon, Marques-Duque de Cadiz, was erect and soldierly,
                        with a carefully parted, curling red beard, a bushy red eyebrow that he
                        brushed upward, and crisp, sparse red curls that grew well back from a
                        sloping Latin forehead. He was pitted with smallpox and scarred with battle
                        wounds, and, besides a brown eye that did not invite familiarity, he owned a
                        decided lisp. But he was the most finished courtier of his time and without
                        an equal among his contemporaries in the art of war and personal valor. The
                        lustre that he shed upon his house during the Moorish war is  still undimmed, and because of him the name
                        long since has become a synonym for all the graces of chivalry.
                    On the other hand, his nephew had a tincture of the classic Spanish olive
                        tint in him to mitigate the red of the Ponces. It made his hair auburn, his
                        brows black and his eyes hazel, and toned the ruddy complexion to the true
                        Spanish ivory. In his features there was less of the Latin and more of the
                        Goth; more of character and less of race; withal, a mixture that was a
                        distinct improvement over the pure strain. To look at him casually was to
                        feel that the young man had just smiled. It was the ineffaceable evidence of
                        the buoyant Andaluz in him.
                    "Son Beltran," said Quintanilla, glancing at the young man's modest dress,
                        "are you still a squire?"
                    "I am, sir. I was less than seventeen years old when I was captured."
                    "How blithely he will bear a squire's arms at five-and-twenty for the glory
                        of the house of Ponce!" Villagarcia laughed.
                    "Here is a wide field for a man to win his spurs," the marques declared
                        warmly. "An enemy to subdue, a city to take. And, if you have doubts as to
                        his prowess, he can yet come by his spurs by process."
                    "And the poor wight is to have nothing for his wounds at Axarquia?"
                        Villagarcia demanded.
                    "I must lose something wandering amid the glories of the world," Beltran put
                        in. "I fear I would be as awkward as a muleteer in armor and I doubt if I
                        could handle a lance."
                    "Wandering amid the glories of the world!" the marques repeated. "That begins
                        well. Were you not in captivity all this time?"
                    "I was."
                    "And not admitted to ransom?"
                    "I was ransomed, but ransomed from the Moors by another Moor. My father, it
                        seems, at the capture of Alhama, killed in personal combat the eldest son of
                        a  Moor named Hacen who lived in Tangiers. The
                        city of Malaga was in debt to this Moor, who had deepened the harbor, and
                        when Hacen found that I, the son of the man who had killed his son, was a
                        captive, he offered to cancel the city's debt if it would deliver me into
                        his hands. Accordingly, I was turned over to him."
                    A little apprehensive shiver ran over the women, but Beltran continued
                        lightly:
                    "If his intent were evil, he failed to carry it out. At the time I came into
                        his hands he was struggling with the problem of the harbor at Palermo, for
                        he was a famous harbor man in the south. It stood me well in stead, my lord,
                        that you passed on to me your love of geometry and the construction of
                        fortifications and works, in their way akin to this Moor's labor. I helped
                        him with his problem and he took me with him to Sicily."
                    "To Sicily!" the marques repeated. "Certes, your bondage was made with a long
                        chain."
                    "It was longer than it was loose. I made Hacen's drafts, solved his problems,
                        and handled his instruments. This work was successful and was his last
                        labor. He fell ill shortly afterward and I took him back to Tangier. There
                        he died. But he had a son, Ali, about mine own age. He was a merchant. He
                        and I were friends. Of me he learned Castilian and Christianity; of him I
                        learned the commerce of the Mediterranean and the Moorish tongue. But his
                        father never lost his hatred of me. When he found that he was to die he
                        exacted a promise of his son that he would never give me my liberty.
                    "Morocco is a wild land, full of lawlessness and refugees. There was no
                        inquiry about the Christian who labored for a Moor, and the elder Hacen gave
                        me no opportunity to talk with any one but his own slaves. After his death
                        the wrong might have been continued had the son been as true an Arab as the
                        father. But Ali Dordoux, of Malaga, came to Tangier, and between  them they invented a plan by which the young
                        Moor could avoid his promise to his father. Hacen made a present of me to
                        Ali Dordoux, and Ali Dordoux gave me my liberty."
                    "Ha!" the marques exclaimed. "A true piece of infidel craft!"
                    "A right Christian bit of infidelism," Beltran observed dryly. "Accordingly,
                        ten months ago I left Tangier for Malaga, with papers to insure me safe
                        passage through the lines of Moorish bandits that haunt this whole coast,
                        but, this safe-conduct proved my misfortune. When they discovered my dual
                        relation to Christian and Moor they decided to hold me for ransom from both
                        peoples."
                    "They overestimated your value to your friends," said Villagarcia.
                    "I never heard from him!" declared the marques defensively.
                    "Good reason. These bandits had very recently allied themselves with Boabdil,
                        whom you have penned up in Granada, and he allowed them no time to spend in
                        bartering Christian youths. They found immediate use for me also."
                    "Alas! Thou unfortunate!" Villagarcia chuckled.
                    "Verily, I have paid for my lodging with the Moors," Beltran returned. "Not
                        one of my band of captors could read or write, and I served as secretary and
                        interpreter of their own language. When his Majesty's forces ravaged the
                        Alpujarras last autumn the brigands carried me with them on every retreat,
                        until at last they took refuge with the garrison of this tower on the road
                        to Alcalá la Real. That was just one week ago. I had been in the tower five
                        days when it fell."
                    He stopped at this point. Unless he were pressed to do so, he meant to omit
                        the rest of the story, that he might preserve the secret of Antonia de
                        Aragon which, he believed, Lerin had tried to safeguard.
                    But Fray Diego de Deza and Juan Royz de Calcena inspected him watchfully now.
                        They had been sent by  the monarchs to find,
                        each in his own way, if there was aught to be gained or feared for the
                        Christian arms from this almost alienated young Ponce who had lived eight
                        years with the enemy.
                    "Ah, then you have had little to do in Spain until within the last ten
                        months?" Calcena observed, transfixing Beltran with a mesmeric eye.
                    "I have had little to do in Spain within that time also," Beltran declared.
                        "My labor consisted chiefly in translating orders to retreat and urgent
                        reminders that the state of the royal treasury made necessary another
                        levy."
                    "How familiar!" Quintanilla exclaimed, with a laugh in which the nobles
                        joined with sympathy.
                    "Tell me," the marques commanded, "why no assault was made from that tower
                        when for more than a month daily trains of treasure passed under its eye?
                        Was it always garrisoned? What had they in mind to do?"
                    "It has been continuously garrisoned ever since it was built many years ago.
                        Its existence was not suspected by the King's adalids. On account of its
                        position the force was retained there, after the Christian troops had
                        surrounded it, for a specific time—a time when the Queen should
                        pass below it."
                    At this each cavalier raised himself from his easy posture and gazed with
                        kindling eyes at the narrator.
                    "The Moors," Beltran continued, "believe that her Majesty is the victorious
                        genius of the Christian arms. Once she is removed, they believe that the
                        Moslem forces will prevail. And so they have kept the tower, waiting for a
                        time when she should pass."
                    "Thank God," the marques exclaimed, after a smouldering silence, "she came
                        into the vega by way of Loxa!"
                    "And, now that their ambush is demolished, they are so determined to remove
                        her that they invade the precincts of the campo and hurl spears at her
                        tent!" Villagarcia declared.
                    
                    "Let be! Neither towers nor Yarfes shall avail against her! She shall live to
                        fling the banner of Castile over every stronghold in their heathen
                        land!"
                    The brown eye of the marques flashed and his feeling was reflected in every
                        face whether it were that of dame or knight or prelate.
                    "Come now! Said he somewhat of the glories of the world?" Villagarcia
                        reflected, turning his thought once more to Beltran.
                    "Is all your story told?" Quintanilla asked.
                    "Oh, there was much to mitigate my captivity. I was once in Venice and twice
                        in Rome, attendant upon my Moor who was harbor-god for all the
                        Mediterranean. I have learned how to build cities, roads, fortresses;
                        something of seafaring and commerce. I went out with a mind as empty and dry
                        as a cucurbit and I have absorbed crafts and professions until I am as full
                        of them as an encyclopædia from Salamanca—"
                    "Tck! Tck! He talks like a Flemish mason or a Milanese banana-vender,"
                        observed Villagarcia in an aside to the Marquesa de Cadiz. "Sorry me! I am
                        only an ignorant Spaniard who likes nothing so well as blood on my
                        lance!"
                    "His Majesty will be glad to learn that there is another engineer in Spain,"
                        Fray Diego de Deza remarked.
                    The marques looked thoughtfully at the gray-haired friar and then at the
                        slender, graceful, almost fragile figure of his nephew, who was regarding
                        the padre with eager eyes.
                    "I think," said Villagarcia in an audible undertone, "that he had rather
                        build fortresses than take them."
                    "Noblemen are growing weary of the sole business of war!" Beltran
                        retorted.
                    "We forget that the important part of the young gentle's story remains yet to
                        be told," Calcena observed.
                    "Pray proceed, sir, and tell us how you were discovered in the ruins of the
                        tower."
                    "Thirty of the number were monks whose observance  of the hours my lord conde heard and so effected our release."
                    From his seat Beltran saw a little glow of color run over the cheek of the
                        gray-eyed maid and knew that she realized that he had recognized her and was
                        shielding her.
                    But Calcena, diligent for cause, in behalf of the strict truth, went on with
                        some perplexity in his voice.
                    "But one of the monks who was rescued said that it was a boy to whom they
                        owed their liberty."
                    "But it was the Conde de Lerin who brought the word," the Marquesa de Cadiz
                        objected. "I heard him tell the captain of the guard."
                    "True, madam," Calcena insisted, smiling; "but nine-and-twenty brethren of
                        the monk bore out his statement."
                    "It was a boy who gave me the information," the conde admitted.
                    "Nay, then, he should be sought and commended," the marques declared. "What
                        was he—a rustic?"
                    "A page attached to ecclesiastical service, I believe," he said. "His name is
                        Juan Garcia."
                    Surprise succeeded by a look of real fright sprang up in the eyes of
                        Calcena.
                    "When was—what time—what did he—?" He began to
                        question excitedly and checked himself.
                    "About sunset yesterday," the conde said.
                    "Your Juan Garcia was killed at noon, padre," the Marquiesa de Moya said.
                    "Two pages of the same name in the same service," the marques observed
                        casually.
                    "Yes," said the conde with a smile, "there must be, for I brought no ghost
                        with me into camp last night. He was alive and warm."
                    "You brought him into camp?" Calcena repeated quickly. "What was he
                        like?"
                    "Oh," the conde responded easily, "a little, narrow-shouldered,
                        pigeon-breasted, doughy malapert! As badly set up a bantling as ever wore
                        breeches!"
                    
                    Thus, to young Ponce's indignation and contempt, Lerin destroyed the nice
                        point of chivalry that Beltran had ascribed to him.
                    It was only too manifest that Lerin did not know that his young companion of
                        the previous night's ride had been a woman.
                    "What was he doing there? Did you see him?" Calcena demanded of Beltran.
                    "You must remember that I was buried under several tons of rock." Beltran
                        answered.
                    It had become apparent to the company that Calcena was showing unnecessary
                        interest and feeling in pursuing the identity of the lad. While the
                        attention of the party was thus attracted to the royal inquisitorial
                        secretary, Beltran stole a look at the gray-eyed maid. Her face, softly
                        flushed, fell before him at that moment, and Beltran felt grow up within him
                        a big desire to defend her to the death.
                    "It was my lord the marques's wish that the boy be sought and commended,"
                        Calcena asserted in explanation.
                    "There was an Irishman with him," Lerin went on airily. "And Quintanilla's
                        sailor guest, Colon, saw the boy and asked me with much interest if I had
                        seen aught of him. He seemed much relieved when I told him that I had
                        brought the page into camp with me."
                    It would seem that no intuition was to stop the dangerous testimony that
                        Lerin was offering. Beltran fixed his eye on the conde and, when Lerin
                        presently turned that way, shook his head, to Lerin's surprise and
                        offense.
                    "Ah!" said Calcena hopefully.
                    "The boy will let himself be known," said Beltran, "if he hears of a reward.
                        Depend upon it."
                    The Marquesa de Moya rose and Antonia stood up beside her. The rising of her
                        ladyship brought all the gentles to their feet. Fray Diego de Deza beckoned
                        Beltran to his side.
                    
                    "His Majesty has but one engineer," he was saying, "a military engineer, Don
                        Francisco Ramirez de Madrid. It will be my pleasure to inform the King that
                        there is another in Spain."
                    Calcena, at Fray Diego's elbow, was smiling his forbidding smile. But the
                        implied royal interest in the words of Fray Diego was offset by Beltran's
                        fear that Quintanilla would get away before he could deliver the auditor an
                        important warning.
                    He made felicitous answers and gladly saw the two clerics depart at last.
                        Then he edged through pretty speeches and congratulations, smiling, replying
                        briefly, and finally brought up beside the royal auditor.
                    "What sailor guest have you under your hospitable roof?" he asked in
                        Quintanilla's ear.
                    "A Genoese called Cristobal Colon, who believes the world is round and that
                        it is possible to reach the eastern coast of India by sailing west. A great
                        man; a favorite of mine. You must know him, son Beltran."
                    "Inform him that he will be a favorite of Beltran Ponce de Leon's if he will
                        right doughtily refuse to give Calcena any information that he may have
                        about this boy."
                    Quintanilla turned now and faced the young man.
                    "All this wakens my suspicions, son Beltran. What is amiss?"
                    "Only that this lad who saved my life may have incurred Calcena's disfavor,
                        and I would not have him exposed."
                    "But if Colon will not give Calcena the information that Calcena hath been
                        led to understand he hath, Colon will incur Calcena's disfavor," Quintanilla
                        argued uneasily.
                    "Why is the Genoese here and not in Genoa?" Beltran demanded.
                    "He is here to induce the Queen to answer a petition for ships to prove his
                        contention about the shape of the world and India."
                    
                    "In Mary's name, get him answered, then, and let him be gone!" Beltran
                        urged.
                    "Maria Sanctissima!" Quintanilla cried with irritation. "What have I been
                        trying to do these six years but that!"
                    "Six years! It were time another urged his cause, then. Fail not to carry him
                        my word, and add thereto that Beltran Ponce de Leon will take up his affairs
                        forthwith."
                    Quintanilla laughed, and as the Conde de Lerin was moving toward his host
                        Beltran left the auditor's side. He made sure that he had a coin of good
                        gold and fair worth in his purse. He had in mind a heart-to-heart talk with
                        the Irishman who was so dangerously informed about the intrepid lad of the
                        ruined tower.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V
                    BELTRAN WALKS AT NOONDAY
                    THE marques and Beltran moved toward the entrance of the
                        pavilion together. Without, the great noble's escort awaited him.
                    "It is just as well," the marques said, "that you should be assured of mine
                        integrity toward you at once. You know that there is none left in all the
                        world so close of kin to you as I."
                    "I learned that from the King," said Beltran gravely.
                    "In that hour when all your kinsmen died their lands and goods became yours,
                        and when Spain believed you dead your goods did in law revert to me. It
                        shall be my pleasure to return this goodly inheritance to you
                        forthwith!"
                    "Good mine uncle," said Beltran, "you have selected a time between two
                        breaths to bring on a debate of length. But as your integrity has been
                        published in few words, my own wish shall be made known to you in no more.
                        You are a good lord. Your vassals love you, and these lands that are to be
                        mine are fair and adjacent to your own in Andalusia. I will not deprive the
                        people of their allegiance to you after eight long, happy years."
                    "You cannot mean that you will not have them! You are as poor as a begging
                        friar else!"
                    "No, my lord. I cannot give you my all. But I had rather have the price of
                        the lands and not the soil."
                    "I do not understand," said the marques. "Why will you hold no lands?"
                    
                    "I had rather put my little fortune in trade. I would see it grow by increase
                        and not by conquest."
                    "Trade is uncertain," said the marques coolly, "and at least unusual among
                        the Ponces."
                    "But I am tainted with a wanderer's preferences, with the love of risk in a
                        venture of stakes instead of life. I have been in bondage so long that the
                        thought of ties distresses me. If I have lands and vassals, I must needs
                        bide at home under a suzerain's rule, or else leave them to the prey of
                        constant marauders."
                    "Marry, then. Wed a wife who is a home-keeper and capable."
                    "But I have said that I do not wish to be bound."
                    The marques looked out of his doorway. He had no child to whom he might in
                        law deliver his titles and his goods at his death, however surely the face
                        of Francesca Ponce de Leon bore his features, though she called another lady
                        "mother" than the one who dwelt in the marques's mansion.
                    "I am sorry," he said at last. "You have dispersed a dream at its beginning.
                        Since sunrise this morning I thought I had a son."
                    "There is Villagarcia," said Beltran.
                    "Never!" declared the marques stubbornly. "The succession passes through my
                        blood, and none other!"
                    "Then," said Beltran, smiling, "Villagarcia's children by your own
                        Francesca!"
                    The marques threw up his head with a certain temper that Beltran understood,
                        and he went on quickly:
                    "Nay, then, we shall let the matter rest. I will have a monthly stipend of
                        the rents until we can better satisfy each other. It may be that you will be
                        willing to look further for a son ere I have lived with you a
                        twelvemonth."
                    "You are no Ponce if I should be!" the marques declared with energy.
                    He signed to the pages, who lifted the entrance of the tent for him, and
                        passed out between warders, saluting  on each
                        side. His squires held his great horse while he mounted, and the hero of the
                        Moorish war rode off to his command.
                    If, according to Isabella's peculiar religious reasoning, the elimination of
                        one unbeliever were a cause for rejoicing, the process of the overthrow of a
                        whole kingdom of infidels called for a national fiesta. So she made a
                        tourney of the Moorish war. For ten years Christian and Moslem jousted in
                        dire earnest before the magnificent society of Spain.
                    All that marked the holiday lists featured the war of Granada, with the
                        single difference that the audience was permanent.
                    It had come with its baggage-trains of furniture, supplies, wardrobes, and
                        its great retinues and had pitched its beautiful tents around the field of
                        conflict—usually a Moorish city under siege—and readily
                        fell into such way of living. It visited and entertained, danced, gamed, and
                        sported. Processions, holidays, fiestas, carnivals, and fairs engaged its
                        attention what time it roved, wearied by the monotony, from the real and
                        savage tilting on the tourney-ground of war.
                    Spain was still feudal and still Gothic. The Moorish influence tincturing the
                        customs was not to be felt strongly until the overthrown Moslem was absorbed
                        in the Spanish people. Isabella was the most advanced woman of her time. She
                        made intelligence fashionable among a nation as yet Gothic in temperament
                        and acquiring the delicate senses of the Moor. A student, a politician, a
                        veteran warrior, she made her ladies all of these things by example, in
                        addition to their duties as housewives, mothers, social leaders, and
                        religious devotees. So it was a rich and varied existence before Granada,
                        not quite as crowded as it had been before Malaga and Baza, but better
                        because of the choice few who still kept the front with the beloved
                        monarch.
                    Beltran Ponce de Leon stepped into the open after his uncle had ridden away.
                        The world was an immense  monotone of sand,
                        shimmering under the hot, white May sunshine and arched by the fleckless
                        blue of a Spanish sky. The campo had fallen under the serene enchantment of
                        the noon. The wide Camino Ancho, trampled and ankle-deep in pulverized dust,
                        was all but deserted. The rich pavilions on each side threw no shade upon
                        it. Their entrances were closed and each possessed an air of sleeping
                        occupancy. It was the hour of siesta over a battle-ground in the time of
                        war.
                    Leonor de la Cerda had caught a glimpse of him from her tent as he turned out
                        of the broad sunshine into a passage that led through a draft into the
                        Camino Estrecho. Upon this passage Leonor's own apartment opened, frankly,
                        without the ceremony of an antechamber.
                    "It is so breathless," she sighed to a page who was about to drop the canvas
                        against the glare of the noon. "Let it alone and go fetch me a drink of
                        water."
                    Through the opening thus left by the boy, who quitted the apartment in
                        obedience to the knightly damsel's command, Leonor could see that a similar
                        side entrance to the Moya tent, the nearest neighbor, was down.
                    The damsel rose quickly. The passage, with the exception of the approaching
                        Ponce de Leon, was totally deserted.
                    She had in mind that a meeting with her old suitor must occur and be well
                        over. She had no distinct idea of what to say to him, but a formal greeting
                        to the loved and lost one who had returned to life again as soon as she had
                        plighted her troth to another seemed intensely inadequate for the
                        occasion.
                    But as he came toward her with his captivating smile, his hazel eyes alight
                        and all the old youthful charm for her present and appealing, she drew in a
                        deep breath and made one step of it.
                    Folding her fine arms about his neck, she delivered herself of all that she
                        would but dared not say in a kiss printed with remarkable precision on his
                        smiling lips.
                    
                    "Farewell!" she said with a deep sigh, and, disengaging herself from the arms
                        that with instinctive gallantry he had put around her, she thrust him
                        on.
                    But at the climacteric moment the servidores of the Marquesa de Moya pushed
                        up the side entrance of her tent.
                    "Por Dios!" the astounded marquesa exclaimed to Antonia de Aragon. "Saw you
                        that?"
                    "I saw," said Antonia de Aragon, spreading open her fan.
                    By this time the narrow, shady passage had brought the smiling Ponce de Leon
                        into the Camino Estrecho that sloped swiftly toward a great hollow in which
                        the barraca lay. At the point where the passage led into the road was one of
                        the few buildings left of the little village of Los Ojos de Huescar, about
                        which the sovereigns of Castile and Aragon had pitched their sumptuous camp.
                        It was a low building plastered smoothly without and washed a rose color.
                        The roof was surmounted by a small mirador with railings. The one or two
                        windows were set deep in the thick walls and the front and rear doors were
                        covered with heavy bars, and an armed guard kept each opening under
                        ward.
                    This was the residence of the Señor de Batres, Pedro de Guzman, father of the
                        golden Sancha and son of the great Duque de Medina-Sidonia.
                    It was here that Beltran encountered the Conde de Lerin drawing
                        rein—not to dismount but to inspect with his quick, roving eye
                        every window for a glimpse of the golden damsel.
                    But, noting the young man, he beckoned Beltran peremptorily to his
                        stirrup.
                    "Why did you shake your head at me in your uncle's tent this morning?" he
                        demanded. "I do not suffer admonishment without understanding it."
                    "I pray your pardon, my lord. I should not have presumed except that the
                        occasion did not admit of delay. You observed that Calcena put more zest in
                             his questioning than might be expected
                        upon so slight a cause. He is the King's inquisitor, and it behooves friends
                        to be wary of him whom Calcena inquires about. The boy whose identity he is
                        so bound to discover saved my life. It is but natural that I should keep him
                        safe from too much questioning by an inquisitor."
                    "Oh!" said the conde and moved on without further word.
                    Opposite the dwelling-place of the golden damsel was a rich tent surmounted
                        by the arms of a widow. As young Ponce passed he glanced at the entrance,
                        which was furtively held aside by a page, and encountered therein the eyes
                        of a woman who was regarding with concentrated attention the presence of the
                        Conde de Lerin before the house of Sancha de Guzman and so close to her
                        own.
                    "Beautiful, miserable, and dangerous!" said Beltran to himself. "I ween my
                        lord hath had many such eyes watching him wherever he hath carried that
                        stately form and brilliant smile over the world."
                    The next neighbor to the house of the golden damsel, on the same side of the
                        roadway, occupied a small tent bearing the indefinable signs that no woman
                        lived in it. Beltran was almost abreast of the entrance when a young knight
                        in red-and-black velvet issued therefrom and turned without an attendant
                        down the Camino Estrecho, toward the barraca.
                    He had all the indolent grace of a stripling and Beltran wondered that he
                        should be a belted knight. He caught up with the youth and cast a sidelong
                        look at his face and looked again squarely with interest. It was an
                        astonishing countenance to find anywhere but upon canvases in convents and
                        chapels. There was a placid forehead, serenely arched and perfectly
                        pencilled brows, with the world-weary droop of lids over melancholy blue
                        eyes, and a long, delicate nose, a youthful mouth, composing withal as
                        saintly a face as Beltran Ponce de Leon ever looked upon in the flesh.
                    
                    "Saints! He looks like a holy virgin at a masquerade!" Beltran exclaimed to
                        himself.
                    He was approaching a big marquee with all its sides raised. The great space
                        it covered, thus overspread with shade and traversed by breezes, had
                        attracted all the children of the nobility to it as a playground. There by
                        scores were small, active figures gorgeous and quaint in stiff brocades and
                        satins, made in exact imitation of the dress of their elders, and amas and
                        grooms in many liveries. The big, pleasant space resounded with children's
                        play.
                    But an attraction set the whole party, little and big, to looking up. Beltran
                        followed their gaze and saw a small boy in moss-green satin scaling the
                        ribbing of ropes toward the pinnacle of the great tent.
                    Apprehensive, Beltran turned from his path and entered the marquee with the
                        idea of seeing the youngster safely down from his perilous climb. But just
                        then a severe-faced young man stepped into the area.
                    "Come down," he said sternly. "It is not permitted. I shall warn the
                        provost."
                    Amas, grooms, and children, hearing the threat, cast a single, unintelligent
                        look at the approaching Beltran. To their startled eyes he appeared to be
                        the officer whom the severe young man had threatened to call, and with a
                        general outcry they fled in every direction. The small boy cast down his
                        terrified eyes into the great vacancy below him and was lost.
                    Beltran, who had sprung forward to catch him as he fell, lifted the little,
                        limp figure tenderly.
                    "It could not be helped," said the severe young man. "It was against
                        orders."
                    "It would be well," said Beltran wrathfully, "to be less fatal with small
                        authority."
                    "Small authority! I am Pedro Gutierrez of the King's bedchamber."
                    "Small is the word," Beltran retorted. "Fetch a physician!"
                    
                    Pedro Gutierrez stalked away. The saintly faced young knight came up.
                    "This is Doña Marta's José," he observed softly, "and it is his ninth
                        life."
                    But by this time the little boy was crying weakly, and Beltran drew a breath
                        of relief.
                    Lerin, who had ridden up to the marquee, dismounted and came across the shady
                        area.
                    "What happened?" he asked uneasily. But before either of the knights could
                        explain his eyes had fallen upon the boy in Beltran's arms.
                    No casual distress for any one's injured child could have flashed such pallor
                        over the nobleman's face or set his powerful nerves atremble. He snatched
                        the boy from young Ponce.
                    "Mon Dieu!" he exclaimed, "c'est mon José!"
                    Startled, Beltran looked at the face of the conde, then down at the boy upon
                        the nobleman's breast, and then at the young knight beside him. There was a
                        glimmer in the latter's blue eyes that confirmed the awakening conviction in
                        Beltran's mind.
                    "It is nothing!" said Beltran hastily. "A boy of his age is
                        indestructible."
                    Servants who had seen the accident had spread the alarm and domestics in the
                        colors of the same houses hold began to run up. Swift upon their heels came
                        the beautiful woman whom Beltran had seen watching Lerin a few minutes
                        before.
                    Lerin turned on her, angrily resisting the attempt of a groom to take the boy
                        from his arms.
                    "Is this how you care for this boy?" he demanded of her. "Can you not
                        govern—"
                    Beltran turned swiftly away beside the holy faced young knight, and together
                        they left the scene.
                    "Who is the lady?" Beltran asked.
                    "She is Doña Marta Valdes y Castellar," the young knight replied, "widow of
                        Don Manuel Valdes, a puissant old lord who had a rich fief in Navarre. He is
                        about three years dead."
                    
                    "A relative of the conde?" Beltran inferred.
                    "No," the young knight returned.
                    They passed an armory, and while they were within the zone of the vociferous
                        din issuing therefrom they said nothing. Presently they walked into silence
                        again.
                    "The lady and the conde doubtless knew each other in Navarre," said
                        Beltran.
                    "Evidently," said the young knight.
                    "The conde seems fond of the child," said Beltran.
                    "Naturally," said the young knight.
                    "That is a fair sky," observed Beltran absently, "a sweet sky to live under
                        once more."
                    "It is," said the young knight. Then he turned his beautiful eyes upon young
                        Ponce. "Once more?" he repeated. "Is it my honor to walk with the
                        well-beloved and much-welcomed Beltran Ponce de Leon?"
                    "I am Beltran Ponce de Leon."
                    "I offer you my congratulations and assure you of mine envy. I missed the
                        battle of Axarquia by a twenty-four hours' ride."
                    Beltran looked at the belted stripling in astonishment.
                    "Do you jest, fair sir?" he asked. "I ween you missed it by some years
                        also."
                    "Oh, no; I was knighted long before the battle. I am called Garcilaso de la
                        Vega."
                    For a moment the most profound disbelief possessed Beltran. He was moved to
                        protest against so obvious a fraud.
                    "Brother in arms to Hernando Perez del Pulgar—him of the
                        exploits—hero of Malaga, hero of Baza, hero of ballads, and famous
                        with every arms-bearing man in Christendom?" he inquired.
                    "Sir, you abash me," Garcilaso protested modestly; "but I am, indeed, the
                        brother in arms to him of the exploits."
                    Beltran stubbornly shook his head.
                    "May I inquire your age?" he asked.
                    
                    "Three-and-thirty last Michaelmas."
                    Beltran confronted the young knight.
                    "Eight years my senior!" he exclaimed.
                    Then Garcilaso raised the heavenly blue of his religious eyes to young Ponce.
                        Under their calm scrutiny Beltran felt his indignant disbelief crumble, his
                        sense of patronizing superiority dissolve, his years fall short, his youth
                        overcome him and place him finally aright. That religious eye was not only
                        three-and-thirty last Michaelmas but vastly older in experience, judgment,
                        and power.
                    Beltran removed his bonnet.
                    "Sir, forgive me," he said. "And if you will suffer the opinion of a youth,
                        and a squire at that, you are, by all odds, taking you fair by looks and
                        achievements, the most remarkable man in Spain!"
                    Garcilaso smiled gently.
                    "Wait until you have seen Don Hernando," he said.
                    They met Don Hernando in twenty paces. A cavalier dressed in murrey had set
                        his foot upon a broken oil-jar thrown out from the commissary, and a
                        kneeling squire was lacing a shoe firmly about the knight's thick ankle.
                    "Behold, brother," said Don Garcilaso, "into whose fair company I have fallen
                        this hour. This is Don Beltran Ponce de Leon, the last and stoutest twig of
                        that noble Ponce tree."
                    Don Hernando Perez del Pulgar, bold common, who had risen by the very acme of
                        harebrained valor high in the admiration of King and churl, had no
                        difficulty in meeting on superior terms this son of the haughtiest and most
                        ancient house in Spain.
                    He was a hardy fellow, short and square, with muscles so highly developed
                        across the shoulders as to make him appear somewhat stooped. He had a pair
                        of stanch legs, ever so slightly bowed, and his round, black head and dark
                        eye completed an appearance more like that of a gladiator than a cavalier.
                        There was no doubt about his age, which was well toward forty, as the first
                             shining white threads in his temples and
                        the wrinkles at the corners of his eyes bore undeniable testimony.
                    That such a bluff, middle-aged, rough-hewn barbarian should by election and
                        affection stand as brother in arms to this exquisite and chaste grandee,
                        Garcilaso de la Vega, filled Beltran's already astonished head with further
                        bewilderment. He understood what Garcilaso had meant when the hero had bade
                        him wait until he had seen Don Hernando. It was not the man, it was the
                        combination, that further set Garcilaso apart as the most remarkable man in
                        Spain.
                    "Stoutest twig of that noble Ponce tree? Nay; but he must prove that!" Don
                        Hernando declared.
                    "He passed through Axarquia," Garcilaso offered.
                    "Verdad! He was captured likewise. It is not to his honor. If he can efface
                        that blemish on his youth in his maturity, he shall bear well the
                        concentrated honors of his house."
                    Thus frankly discussed in the third person, Beltran struggled with rising
                        surprise and indignation.
                    "Nay, but he can be tried out," Garcilaso suggested. "Is there anything in
                        sight to test his mettle?"
                    "There is," said Hernando, with his eyes on Beltran's slender figure. "Let
                        him keep the gate of Granada to-night while I ride in and post an 'Ave' on
                        the portals of the great mosque."
                    At this Garcilaso's eyes sought his fellow's and dwelt with inquiry.
                    "Oh, no," he remonstrated gently. "That is too much for one man. Would you
                        widow his lady-love so soon, a second time?"
                    "As if," said Hernando haughtily, "I expected any one but myself to be able
                        to hold a gate alone! No. I have picked fourteen fellows for it. Let him be
                        the fifteenth and meet us armed at all points at the hour of low twelve at
                        the gate of the campo."
                    Beltran's black brows had crept toward each other in perplexity. He was
                        plainly in the presence of a pair  of unusual
                        men, years his seniors, who were as utterly disregarding an adult Spaniard's
                        dignity as if he were a page taking his first lesson in the manual of arms.
                        There was enough of that changeable light in Garcilaso's deceptive eyes to
                        establish the fact that he was undergoing a quiz, but the genuine interest
                        that the two renowned cavaliers were showing in the examination led him to
                        use caution in resenting their banter.
                    "Sirs," he said pleasantly, "I see right well the necromancy you have
                        employed to retain your youth, and mine own years have not too far a start
                        in the lead of me. I doubt not I can overtake them in your marvellous
                        company, at your derring-do. It will be my pleasure to behold you post that
                        'Ave' on the mosque to-night!"
                    At this Hernando's teeth, big and white, gleamed. Between him and his
                        youthful brother in arms passed a single electrical glance, then Garcilaso
                        laughed aloud, an immensely delighted laugh.
                    "I see you cornered by your match!" he cried. "You must do it!"
                    "Oh," said Beltran confidently, "he can do it. I will help his fourteen hold
                        the gate."
                    Hernando slapped his leg and thrust out a hand.
                    "I'll do it, by Our Lady! My hand on it! Ha! You are a true Ponce! I should
                        have known better."
                    "I am not a knight," Beltran warned him, "but, if your company objects, get
                        you fourteen squires, for I mean to see this done."
                    "You will be a knight after this is over if you are not a corpse as full of
                        Moorish javelins as a pincushion is of needles," Garcilaso declared.
                    "Well," said Hernando, after an amused rumination, "the plan is laid, start
                        and finish, and, I am free to confess, the suddenest I ever made. Be at the
                        gate of the campo to-night at the appointed hour. What else may be part of
                        the exploit you will learn then. And keep it between your teeth!"
                    
                    Don Garcilaso, who seemed to have come to the end of his walk when he had
                        joined his rugged brother in arms, smiled at Beltran that
                        ever-disconcerting, saintly smile which set at once his humanness and his
                        saintliness in a state of doubt, and young Ponce went his way.
                    Among the low shelters of the common fighting man he wended, over the dusty
                        walk of the common soldier, among his housekeeping implements, his laundry,
                        his boot and armor mending. Two men with their heads together over the
                        threading of a wax-end attracted his attention. Then he saw Juan Royz de
                        Calcena systematically searching a company street several rods above
                        him.
                    Beltran had the single advantage of having seen the Irishman first.
                    The young man stood at the side of the sturdier of the two who threaded the
                        wax-end and dismissed the other with a motion of his hand.
                    "Pull your hood lower over your face," he commanded, "and give ear. If this
                        cleric, Juan Royz de Calcena, who approaches yonder with a string-halt step,
                        asks you concerning your presence at the tower yesterday when I was
                        discovered, deny by all the saints in heaven that you were there. Hark ye! I
                        shall stand by you if aught befall you; but fail me and I will loose hell on
                        you! Do you understand?"
                    The Irishman raised the twinkle of his eye to the young man's face.
                    "An Irishman, your honor," he answered quietly, "is a born gallant. It is a
                        hot walk you have had in the noon to learn that San Patricio was a
                        gentleman. Rest you, sir, I should disgrace the sod if I reported on a
                        lady."
                    "Marry!" exclaimed Beltran, taken aback. "It is neatly said. I have silenced
                        all other tongues. Fear no contradiction. This for your pains. Stand by your
                        boast."
                    
                    He dropped a gold piece into the Irishman's palm and put the huddle of cabins
                        and shelters between himself and Calcena without the royal secretary's eye
                        detecting him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    CALCENA MAKES INQUIRY
                    JUAN ROYZ DE CALCENA
                        was of a type of men who put the rule of the church and the favor of kings
                        of the fifteenth century in evil repute. He was greatly capable, useful to
                        the papacy and the state, but grasping, totally devoid of religiosity,
                        totally devoid of humanity, and armed with the authority of office and
                        secure through the blind partisanship of his great patrons.
                    It was inevitable that such a man should achieve the extremity of evil by his
                        opportunities and by the peculiar characteristics of his nature and his
                        race. No such consummate villain as Juan Royz de Calcena could be true to
                        any one; not even to the King who made him nor the church that protected
                        him. The funds représenting the crown's portion of the penalties exacted by
                        that most formidable institution that the world has known, the Spanish
                        Inquisition, were drafted by Calcena, passed into the royal treasury through
                        his hands, and were thereafter governed by him. Such extensive scope of
                        comptrollership afforded Calcena a favorable opportunity for larceny of the
                        King's funds. But it was his admitted influence over that otherwise
                        inflexible monarch which made Juan Royz de Calcena one of the remarkable men
                        of the times.
                    It was not to be suspected that Don Ferdinand was aware that his secretary
                        made his influence over the King a salable article. Of whatever else the
                        cold Aragonese prince was guilty, he was never charged with baseness by his
                        people. And so long had Calcena pursued the practice, and so many had been
                        his extortions,  that he feared that the
                        accumulated charges of turning the royal favor to account would amount to a
                        nation-shaking scandal followed by the summary vengeance of a furious and
                        humiliated King.
                    It had been a reckless plunge into corruption for him to levy an extortion of
                        one hundred thousand gold ducats upon the Jews of Aragon that he might have
                        the sum to loan to the King for Antonia's dower. And as the morning's
                        interview in the tent of the Marques de Cadiz revealed to him little by
                        little that his secret had escaped into other hands than those of his cowed
                        messenger, Juan Garcia, it was small wonder that he fell into an ague of
                        fright.
                    It would be his first labor to locate the purloiner of his reputation.
                        Thereafter he could pervert to his private revenges such weapons as his
                        double relation to church and state afforded him.
                    When he passed in company with Fray Diego de Deza through the scattered
                        groups of attendants, guards, and hangers-on that usually settled around the
                        precincts of a great lord's residence in mediæval days, he looked up the
                        staring, hot, yellow slope of the Camino Ancho toward the residence of Don
                        Alonso de Quintanilla, whose door had been open to the Genoese sailor,
                        Cristobal Colon, these many years.
                    "I pray you, brother, excuse me," he said. "I would gladly return to the King
                        in your company, but a small matter that nevertheless calls for immediate
                        attention urges me to seize this moment."
                    Fray Diego de Deza had heard and had interpreted Calcena's interest in the
                        boy as pursuit, though he did not understand his cause. He guessed that
                        Calcena intended to question Colon, and Fray Diego was Cristobal Colon's
                        friend and champion.
                    "The King is at his nooning," observed Fray Diego, "and I am not yet expected
                        by him. I am moved to speak with mine old gossip, Colon, who, I hear, hath
                        yesterday come to the campo."
                    
                    Calcena's malevolent eye sparkled with vexation, but he could not risk
                        another person reaching the Genoese first.
                    "That is a pleasant circumstance," he asserted, "for mine own errand takes me
                        to the tent of the noble Quintanilla."
                    "Very good, brother; then let us walk."
                    It was an odd walk. Deza was a tall, thin man with a long stride and a free
                        swing of a pair of gaunt arms. Calcena had a peculiar sidling step, as if he
                        advanced one foot farther than the other. But their progress was reverently
                        observed. Knight and common gave them room, and such greeting as befitted
                        the King's inquisitor and the tutor of the Infante Juan.
                    Don Alonso de Quintanilla, bachelor and bon vivant, had a pavilion large
                        enough to accommodate all the guests in the campo. Don Ferdinand had called
                        him the finest host in Spain, and then, for economy's sake, being
                        traditionally pressed for funds, shifted to the auditor the expense and
                        responsibility of entertaining the visiting great who flocked to the Spanish
                        court before Granada.
                    The pavilion stood back from the common line-up of tents and the great open
                        space was continually crowded with arriving or departing retinues. Now, when
                        the priest and the inquisitor turned their steps into that area before the
                        hospitable door, they were immediately passed into the tall tent and waited
                        upon very promptly by a suave attendant.
                    "I wish to speak with that Colon who abideth with your master," said
                        Calcena.
                    "I came," said Fray Diego, "to sit with mine old gossip and hold his hand in
                        love. When Fray Juan hath done with him, I pray you lead me to Colon that we
                        may talk in quiet."
                    "Peradventure," said the attendant, "it would please you both to see him in
                        his study. It is private."
                    "It would," said Calcena. "Study!" he repeated to  Fray Diego as they followed the servant. "Faith, he is a petted
                        petitioner."
                    They were led along a passage cut off by curtains to a small space similarly
                        set apart, far back in the interior of the big pavilion. Here the attendant,
                        lightly tapping the stiff arras, taut with its own weight, announced to the
                        occupant that he had visitors without and stood aside.
                    Immediately the hangings were thrust apart and Cristobal Colon stood in the
                        opening.
                    His was the face of a Roman, melancholy and stern, full of foresight,
                        vitality of constitution and fortitude of temperament, aggression and
                        conquest, but enough tempered by grace, dignity, and sensitiveness to be
                        saved from mercilessness and stoicism. He was a blue-eyed man, perfectly
                        gray, though less than six-and-forty years of age, and the white of his hair
                        heightened by contrast his fresh color and emphasized the remnants of
                        youthfulness in his face. The national difference of physiognomy and
                        physique between him and the pair who stood before him was striking. With
                        the personal advantage of fine stature in addition to the Italian
                        superiority of clean-sculptured limb, shapeliness of frame, and symmetry of
                        feature, he made the Spanish Deza and the mongrel Calcena look like bad
                        pieces of art.
                    "Welcome, brethren," he said in an even, flowing intonation that marked him
                        at once as a foreigner. "Enter, sir. Enter, Fray Diego, thou embodied
                        blessing!"
                    With a natural grace he bowed Calcena into the chamber, but he opened his
                        arms to the tall, thin Deza, priest though he was, and saluted him on either
                        cheek.
                    "God save thee, my friend," said Deza. "God keep thee ever as close in his
                        care as thou art to my heart!"
                    Calcena, who had stepped within, his face distorted by a sarcastic smile,
                        encountered a third person who had risen at sight of the inquisitor and
                        shrank to one side as if to escape from the apartment without notice.
                    This man had descended from Jewish ancestry, as every feature and all the
                        outlines of his frame disclosed.
                    
                    But one of his fleshy white hands that clutched the lawn frill over his chest
                        held a rosary of beryl and jet.
                    He was Luis de Santangel, comptroller of the ecclesiastical revenues of
                        Aragon and one of the high officers of Ferdinand's household. But Calcena's
                        smile became malevolent, and an expression of fear and hate twitched across
                        the face of the courtier.
                    "Ah, Santangel, your holy talisman protects you!" Calcena exclaimed,
                        indicating the rosary. "Your last lesson sat well."
                    This reference to the penalizing of the converted Jew by the Inquisition the
                        previous summer, and the terms of his sentence which required him to recite
                        the rosary every day, brought a flush to Colon's forehead. The converso
                        seemed goaded out of his fear.
                    "Be sure that you have as strong a protector when you come to need
                        protection," he said.
                    "Is that a threat?" Calcena demanded.
                    "No," the converso retorted between his teeth, "it is prophecy."
                    Calcena, with the morning's freshly founded fear uppermost, looked startled,
                        and the converted Jew, with his instincts acute through long anxiety,
                        detected the uneasy mark on the inquisitor's face and his fear abated. With
                        something like ease he made his adieu to Colon and departed.
                    "Colon, it will not help you to join yourself with this doomed Jew," Calcena
                        said, recovering himself. "If you would escape suspicion, let this be the
                        last time you are found in his company."
                    This peremptory charge achieved a remarkable change in Colon's countenance,
                        that had heretofore worn a look of deprecation for the converso's
                        humiliation. The Italian's tall figure stiffened with the dignity of a man
                        who had suffered insult from an immeasurable inferior.
                    "Sir, Cristobal Colon, who issued unscathed from the holy council of
                        Salamanca, recognizes no magistrate in Juan Royz de Calcena."
                    
                    Deza looked troubled. The precipitation of ill feeling so openly, and without
                        the least attempt at softening the force of words, was in the last extreme
                        incautious on the part of Colon, who stood clear of the charge of heterodoxy
                        by the narrowest margin. It was the purpose of preventing exactly this that
                        had moved Deza to accompany Calcena on his visit to Colon. The Italian's hot
                        southern temper and his unquenchable pride launched at Calcena might ruin
                        him utterly.
                    "You will recognize Juan Royz de Calcena as a step between you and the King,"
                        Calcena declared, trembling.
                    "Sir, I am a suppliant before her Majesty!" the Italian retorted.
                    "Come, brothers, this is unseemly," Deza interrupted.
                    "We are not children. Be friends and let us be about our business. Shall I
                        withdraw, brother, until you have done with Colon?"
                    "No," said Calcena shortly; "the matter is unimportant."
                    "Say on," said Colon, "and, if you can overlook my words, pray remember that
                        a man long tried in patience loses it for little cause."
                    "It was reported to me this morning that you had seen a boy about the ruins
                        of a Moorish watch-tower on the road to Alcalá la Real. He used the name of
                        my messenger and was mainly responsible for the discovery of the prisoners
                        rescued therefrom. It is the wish of the Marques-Duque de Cadiz, whose
                        nephew was among the rescued, that the boy be found and rewarded. Can you
                        give me a description of him?"
                    At the outset of Calcena's remarks Colon's blue eye, that had been fixed on
                        the inquisitor's forbidding face, wandered away. The foreigner's inimitable
                        faculty for retreating into immobility asserted itself on the Italian's
                        countenance. He shook his head and made a motion with his long hands.
                    "I regret that I cannot aid you," he said.
                    "At least you can tell me if he were short or tall,  alone or accompanied, half-grown or still a child," Calcena
                        urged irritably.
                    "I did not look at him closely," Colon explained.
                    "Why should I? I have other things to take my attention than the looks of
                        boys by my way."
                    "But you asked the Conde de Lerin about him," Calcena insisted.
                    "I saw a boy in a lonely place. It seemed imprudent and dangerous. For the
                        time I was concerned about his safety. But my lord conde relieved mine
                        anxiety. It was all I cared to know. I have no information to give you,
                        sir."
                    "Well, it is of no importance," Calcena replied brusquely. "There is another
                        person whose affairs are simple enough that he can oblige the marques with a
                        description."
                    Calcena had turned toward the parting of the arras as he spoke, and Fray
                        Diego was puzzled to see Colon show a disposition toward checking the
                        inquisitor's departure.
                    "What person?" he asked.
                    "One described to me by the Conde de Lerin."
                    With a kind of triumph in his backward glance Calcena pushed through the
                        arras and departed.
                    Fray Diego, who had seated himself, waited until the sound of the secretary's
                        footsteps died away on the planking of the pavilion floor before he essayed
                        to speak.
                    "There are ducats at the bottom of this search," then said the good
                        Diego.
                    "Ducats!" Colon exclaimed, starting from his preoccupation. "Mischief,
                        certainly! But ducats as an inspiration. And ducats, Fray Diego, or the lack
                        of them, are all that constitutes my safety from that man. I am poor and
                        unimportant, else I had gone long since to the stake at his behest."
                    "You will do well not to build upon any cause for safety with Calcena," Deza
                        whispered. "You angered him just now."
                    
                    "Poor and unimportant," the Italian repeated, as if he had not heard the
                        priest's last words. "That means, for me, despised and rejected! Oh, holy
                        man, is her Majesty too much engaged with the Moorish war to consider my
                        petition? Is there no answer after five years of debate? No word from the
                        council in all this time?"
                    "The time is taken up with the activities of the war," Deza replied.
                        "Something out of the mere run of affairs will be needed to bring the
                        question to a hearing. It was wise in you to come; it gives us a
                        pretext."
                    "To come fifty leagues with my child in my arms to give a pretext!" Colon
                        exclaimed impatiently, turning away from his friend.
                    "Your child!" the priest repeated in mild surprise.
                    Colon made a sign toward a corner of the enclosed space where a couch with a
                        curtain drawn over it sheltered the face of a four-year-old boy from the
                        diffused glare of the daylight from the canvas overhead.
                    The priest rose from his chair and walked softly over to the couch.
                    "Your child, indeed," he said in a low voice, "by every line of his face! And
                        you have wedded again?"
                    But the Genoese went on standing immovable on his demand.
                    "Am I so stale, so monotonous a question, that for appearance' sake I am no
                        further mentioned?" he asked.
                    "Her Majesty hath her eyes set upon that glorious prize now so near within
                        the reach of her hands. It is the last effort—the supreme effort of
                        a long, long struggle. Forgive her if she cannot turn from that to the misty
                        possibilities of a kingdom across the sea."
                    "God speed the end of the war, then," Colon exclaimed, "for mine endurance is
                        worn most thin!"
                    "Wait until the fall of Granada is sure."
                    The Genoese brought down his hand upon the globe standing on the long deal
                        table.
                    "Wait! I have waited eighteen years! I have grown  white and poor waiting! I can wait no longer! I must know! If I am to be
                        rejected I must go to friendlier and less deliberate courts."
                    "Other courts!" Deza repeated, as if he doubted.
                    Colon ran his hand among the disorder of papers and drew therefrom a folded
                        parchment dangling a great seal.
                    "Henry VII! An invitation! To come to England? Nay; but this will help us.
                        What else have you?"
                    Colon pushed aside a book and took from under it another parchment.
                    "This I had from the French ambassador at Sevilla," he said.
                    Deza took these writings from the great of two nations and handled them
                        reverently.
                    "When once her Majesty sees these—" he began.
                    "Oh! Must I win by invoking her envy," Colon cried, "rather than by proving
                        my worth?"
                    "The council of Salamanca may be brought to a decision by this."
                    "The council of Salamanca will render no decision, because it now is aware
                        that an humble sailor from Genoa knew more than did its learned doctors and
                        its towering dignitaries."
                    "Spanish reserve," Deza reminded him.
                    "And Spanish loss, by the mass!" Colon declared.
                    "For I carry her rejected glory to England or to France when I go hence."
                    The superb egotism of the Italian evoked neither smile nor reproof from Deza,
                        for the egotism of Cristobal Colon among his friends conveyed to them an
                        indelible impression of the verity of his claims.
                    "Yet what can I expect from France or England," he went on with a gust of
                        pessimism, "but that which I met in Portugal and that which I am meeting in
                        Spain! Eighteen years since I set foot upon Spanish soil! I am
                        six-and-forty; I have reached the day when other men begin to contemplate
                        rest and the past. But all my  life's
                        achievements lie before me. To be done in mine old age? No! Ere mine eye
                        grows dim, ere my hand grows unsteady, ere my blood grows cool! Hence, then!
                        Now! Not an hour to be lost! But to begin all over again—to waste
                        another eighteen years? The span of life for man is too short! Too short, or
                        the reach of his ambitions too far! Have I schemed too mightily for the
                        execution of my body? Must it be that the mind of Cristobal Colon is to
                        reveal and the hand of a successor achieve? No! The Macedonian humbled the
                        world in a few years; the Roman extended the boundaries of the earth after
                        he had grown gray! I am not less than they, nor my visions paler nor my hand
                        less strong. Glory of Spain! With what superb ease she wears it! Better my
                        sons the grandees of Spain, better to be the grand admiral of Spain than to
                        be kings over all the other realms of the earth! Think of it! To add
                        kingdoms to this proud nation; to bring fabulous booty to this court of rich
                        war prizes; to raise this great Queen above her present greatness; to bring
                        Christ to all God's peoples; to make at one stride what the slow advance of
                        centuries might not add to the generations! That were a sublime labor! A
                        godly labor! Shall I flag—shall I faint—shall I surrender
                        before any odds? And yet, offering all this and more to the glory of Castile
                        and Aragon, I must needs wait and supplicate and waste my years till what
                        time—"
                    So his unconscious soliloquy had run the gamut of sensation through despair,
                        long-suffering, loyalty, ambition, exaltation, back again to indignant
                        resentment against the wintry atmosphere that his life's hopes were
                        enduring. He paced back and forth before the priest, who still stood at the
                        side of the golden-haired child, not noticing him.
                    "Forget not, my friend," said Deza in a low voice, "that they who love thee
                        suffer all thy sorrows. Thou art rich in loyal friends, thou finished binder
                        of the golden chain of love. If sacrifice, if prayer, if yearnings, ay, if
                        tears—"
                    
                    He halted, for he saw he had no need to finish the sentence. Colon's face
                        underwent one of its eloquent changes. He seized the priest's hand and his
                        eyes fell upon the sleeping child.
                    The shrewd Deza held his peace. Colon was a man who found relief in words. If
                        there were anything to be learned about this child, the priest knew that he
                        had only to wait. Colon removed the light cover from the feet of the boy now
                        that the noon grew hot.
                    "Let be!" he muttered. "I am no man to found a home and adorn a fireside;
                        make ducats out of maravedis gained one by one! Thrift! It is that sordid
                        word that barks about my heels like a sheep-dog because I would stray out of
                        a beaten path in search of something else than a full stomach and a whole
                        garment."
                    He stroked the golden locks, damp with moisture, back from the fair little
                        forehead and presently turned quickly away.
                    "I have hurt enough without waking a grief that sleeps. The time and my
                        determination drive on to an end of this long wait. I must be answered, and
                        soon. Quintanilla feels the same dread of reviving mine ancient appeal as
                        you have shown. He has not said that he will not speak with her Majesty;
                        neither have you. Must I furnish a pretext, in truth?"
                    At this moment the taut arras was tapped again and Colon pushed it aside.
                        Without was Quintanilla himself.
                    "In time to hear myself disparaged," he said with a twinkling eye. "But,
                        before I reproach you, tell me, hath Calcena been here?"
                    "He has."
                    "Excuse us, father," the auditor said, drawing Colon aside. "Am I too late?"
                        he asked in an undertone.
                    "Gave you him information about the lad that you saw at the ruined tower
                        yesterday?"
                    "I did not," the Genoese replied.
                    "Were you warned?"
                    "It was unnecessary," the Genoese replied haughtily.
                    
                    The auditor turned back to the priest.
                    "Colon's dudgeon and the interest of that dashing young Ponce arouses my
                        suspicion," he said to the cleric, "that there is a woman, and a handsome
                        one, at the bottom of this chase."
                    "I had decided upon ducats, observing Calcena's interest," Deza smiled.
                    "Why are you not both wrong?" Colon remarked.
                    "Why should a rich young Ponce pursue ducats and why should Calcena pursue a
                        woman?"
                    Quintanilla put up both his white hands and smoothed his silver-sable locks
                        that, parting in the middle like a woman's, lay smooth and shining down each
                        side his forehead.
                    "Saints! this sailorman hath switched the game," he laughed. "Ducats for
                        Calcena and the woman for Ponce; that is the way it tracks. But this young
                        Ponce bade me in that dictatorial manner of his famous house to beseech the
                        Queen to hear you. And seeing that Calcena returned to the King's house just
                        now, more yellow than ever and muttering about you under his breath, it is
                        the thing I must do."
                    "Welcome the ill will of Calcena if it gains him his hearing!" Deza
                        exclaimed.
                    But Colon took no notice of the cleric's remark. He had turned away from the
                        padre and the courtier. In an obscure corner of the apartment was a little
                        statue of the Virgin; before it was a candle, beside it a missal.
                    "Mother of Him who aspired," he said, with his hands wrung about each other
                        in an agony of appeal, "help me in the name of thy Son!"
                    Quintanilla, sobered by the wistfulness in that impulsive prayer, bit his lip
                        and moved to leave the study. Deza crossed himself mechanically, but there
                        was no reflection of the Italian's desperate hope in the faces of the
                        courtier or the padre.
                    Meanwhile, Juan Royz de Calcena presented his customary composed and
                        repellent face to the campo after  his
                        unpleasant interview in the tent of Quintanilla, turned up the Camino Ancho
                        to the Camino Estrecho, and passed thence down into the military quarters.
                        He had only the meagre fact that the escort was an Irishman upon which to
                        work, and he knew that the prolonged Moorish war, so rich in booty, had
                        attracted adventurers from almost every Christian land. The Irish and the
                        Spanish were internationally mixed at that time, and when the English lord
                        Scales had come over before Malaga he had been followed by many adventuring
                        blades from the British Isles. There might be a whole regiment of Irish
                        before Granada, so he sought out a commander and learned from him the
                        location of the foreign troops in the barraca. Within an hour's search he
                        had located the man whom Beltran Ponce de Leon had warned but a moment
                        before.
                    The man who had been with the escort when Beltran had approached had not
                        resumed his place beside his friend, but stood behind one of the low
                        shelters over the ridge of which his head could be seen.
                    The Irishman looked up at the footfall of the inquisitor and, recognizing the
                        cleric's religious habit, stood up.
                    "Who was the lad you were with yesterday?" the inquisitor demanded
                        sternly.
                    "The camp is as full of lads as the bog is of skippers," the Irishman
                        answered. "What lad was I with, now, yesterday?"
                    From under the upslant of his brows Calcena fixed a startling eye upon the
                        Irishman.
                    "That is no answer," he said.
                    The Irishman bowed.
                    "With your reverence's help, I shall be glad to answer."
                    "You were seen and reported as about the ruined tower on the road to Alcalá
                        la Real in the company of a lad."
                    "It is a shame to impose on a holy man like that," the Irishman declared. "I
                        was with no lad about a ruined tower."
                    
                    "If you lie it will go hard with you," the inquisitor said with menace.
                    "It should," said the Irishman heartily; "but I never told a stricter
                        truth."
                    "Where were you yesterday?"
                    "I spent the whole day on the road between Alcalá la Real and the campo, with
                        her Majesty's ladies, and a busy day it was, too, by the same sign."
                    "You were about that tower, then!"
                    "I must have come by it," the Irishman admitted, "for they say it stands
                        above the road over which the convoy passed, and I passed the same way as
                        the company."
                    "What are you called?" Calcena demanded.
                    "Guillermo Ires; in the King's English, William Harris, of Galway,
                        Ireland."
                    "Do you know who I am?" Calcena demanded.
                    "The holiness of the clergy," said the Galway man, "is usually so blinding
                        that it is hard for me to know one from the other."
                    "I am the King's inquisitor!"
                    "Being a good Catholic," said William of Galway cryptically, "I am proud of
                        the honor."
                    "You saw no boy about the tower yesterday? I ask because the Marques-Duque de
                        Cadiz wishes to reward him for the rescue of the young nephew of the
                        marques—and, I doubt not, means to make it profitable to any one
                        who could furnish the required information."
                    "Your reverence breaks my heart," said the Irishman regretfully. "Had I known
                        of this sooner I might have invented a lad for the Marques-Duque de Cadiz,
                        but my honest tongue hath cheated me as usual."
                    Calcena had no answer ready. Under circumstances when his reputation had not
                        been at stake he would have summoned the police of the campo and taken the
                        Irishman for examination. But he was not sure that he had found the person
                        who had accompanied the boy. Colon, however, had admitted that he had seen
                        the  boy, and Colon had stubbornly refused to
                        describe him. Colon was the one to examine. He could charge Colon with
                        heterodoxy, to no one's surprise, and wrest the information from him by a
                        variety of methods.
                    Without another word to the Irishman, the inquisitor sidled away up the road
                        toward the quarters of the nobility. The Galway man looked after him.
                    "He is not done with me," he said to himself. "I can tell that by the whisk
                        of his cassock."
                    His friend, very square and stocky, in tabard and leg-wrappings, stood at his
                        side. The Galway man turned to him very quickly and said in English:
                    "Seest yon banshee sidling off in the blessed daylight? We are marked men,
                        Arthur Law."
                    "Calcena!" Arthur Law exclaimed in a whisper. "What makes the fiend
                        here?"
                    "I was pressed into service by a meddler who spoiled one of his schemes, and
                        the villain hath whetted his bill-hook for a wide swath. We are both a bit
                        irregular at mass, and that is a deadly insult to Calcena if he hath a mind
                        to quarrel with you."
                    "Are you ready for fast travel this night?" the Englishman asked
                        sententiously.
                    "I do not know," the Irishman demurred. "If we run and are taken we are done
                        for. If we are seized here we have a powerful friend at our backs."
                    "Who is that?" the Englishman demanded incredulously.
                    "You mind the red-headed marques-duque, heir to the broad lands of Cadiz,
                        that we resurrected from a ruin this morning, just? That is the lad."
                    "Humph! Was he the meddler? How came you caught?"
                    The Irishman laid his hand on his friend's shoulder.
                    "Gossip," he said. "I was sick for a sight of the white skin and rosy cheeks
                        and gray eyes of the Galway lasses, and this one had lashes as long as my
                        thumb!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII
                    A MATTER OF REVENUE
                    THE fifteenth century rose early; the day's business, well
                        advanced, greeted the rising of the sun. The nights of the vega before
                        Granada, upon which the snow-born winds of the Sierra Nevada dropped at
                        sunset, were cool. The interior of the royal pavilion, Oriental in its
                        splendor and brightening under the coming day, was comfortable for the
                        councils that later in the morning would have discomposed the stately dames
                        in their heavy brocades and gold and jewel-laden crespinettes, and the
                        duques, marqueses, and condes in their velvets and vair who attended that
                        tireless and much-burdened pair the King and Queen of Aragon and
                        Castile.
                    While the farmer folk back in the arid lands of Spain were faring forth in
                        their arable valleys, and the shepherds into their stony heights, to win a
                        slender living for themselves and a tax for the church, the overlord and the
                        monarchs, the lofty ones of the united realm had already been busy an hour
                        dispensing that tax to the best interest of the state.
                    Of late, because of the stubbornness of the long Moorish war, these councils
                        had grown more earnest commensurate with the shrinkage of the nation's
                        purse. The Spanish monarchs had spent recklessly in their determination to
                        drive the children of Mahoun from the ancient land of the Christian Goth.
                        And this morning, a day or two after the Conde de Lerin had come from afar
                        to woo and wed Doña Antonia de Aragon, the discussion of the marriage
                        settlement brought the number of consulting parties down to three or four.
                        These were  the King, the Conde de Lerin,
                        Calcena, and Don Alonso de Quintanilla.
                    Under the ever-increasing light raying down upon the magnificence of the
                        royal pavilion the three courtiers stood about the King's seat, some
                        distance away from the rustling silken circle of ladies who surrounded her
                        Majesty the Queen.
                    "You are aware, nephew," the King was saying, "that the damsel is penniless.
                        Since I may not ally a new province and risk a war with France without a
                        fortune to arm you and maintain you in a viceroy's state, she must be
                        dowered liberally. The profit is mine and yours. Her fortune must come from
                        me. But the royal treasury is as empty as a wine-flask after a night's
                        carouse."
                    Lerin smiled, but Ferdinand went on in the same dispassionate voice:
                    "It is true. This stubborn war hath drained our purse to the last maravedi.
                        My lady, the Queen, hath pledged her jewels to raise funds to help me in
                        this campaign against Granada! Let be! The infidel shall pay me right noble
                        usury. Calcena!"
                    The royal secretary made obeisance.
                    "You informed me some time ago that you might be prepared to provide me with
                        one hundred thousand ducats of gold for the dower of Doña Antonia de Aragon.
                        How have you succeeded?"
                    "I have received no answer from the message despatched to Aragon on this
                        matter," Calcena responded. "The death of my messenger delayed the carriage
                        of the letter. However, I have sent again by a fast post, and I expect an
                        answer by this time a week hence."
                    "What confidence have you in the favor of the reply?" Ferdinand asked.
                    "A blind bargain," Calcena admitted.
                    "Then we may as well cast about for other revenues while we wait."
                    The King signed to Quintanilla.
                    
                    "Have you listed the legitimate sources for Doña Antonia's dower?"
                    The auditor answered that he had and showed a book.
                    "Read!" was the next command, adding, as the conde silently waited on the
                        conclusions of this council upon which depended the success of his
                        ambitions: "The Cortes, Jaime, you must be aware, cannot be invoked in this
                        matter."
                    "By search of the records of nobles who have furthered this campaign by arms
                        and treasure, I find that there is one whose support hath fallen short at
                        the opening of this siege against the Moorish capital. He may very well make
                        up his deficit by a loan. This is the Duque de Medina-Sidonia."
                    "Ah!" said the King.
                    Quintanilla, who had the same conclusions about the great duque as the King
                        held, stole a furtive glance at his liege.
                    "Can you do no better than that?" Ferdinand demanded quizzically.
                    "I must," said Quintanilla with a smile. "I find also that nine cities are
                        under fine."
                    "That is better. What cities are they?"
                    Quintanilla named them and went on:
                    "The Santa Hermandad of Aragon hath a fund which is available, but it may not
                        equal one hundred thousand ducats."
                    "A small donative may eke out the sum required," Ferdinand observed.
                    "And the Holy Office of the Inquisition," Quintanilla added with
                        finality.
                    "Can it be?" Ferdinand demurred. "We have drawn heavily upon our revenues
                        from the Holy Office and are involved in debt to it for years to come."
                    "The Holy Office," put in Calcena at this, "consents to be listed as one of
                        the sources of this dowry."
                    It was the inquisitor's way of promising the first rich  prosecution to the marriage settlement of Antonia de Aragon.
                        For a time no one said anything. Lerin was following a train of thought that
                        Quintanilla's first item had suggested to him. If the Duque de
                        Medina-Sido-nia was not supporting the monarchs in this the closing campaign
                        of the Moorish war, after his generosity of previous years, there was an
                        estrangement between him and his sovereigns. The great feudal lords of the
                        day were not totally reconciled to the rising power of kings. Now and again
                        throughout the joint reign of Ferdinand and Isabella some powerful baron
                        retired in dudgeon to his castle, and the united efforts of the princes had
                        been required to avoid internal war. Whoever allied himself with
                        Medina-Sidonia joined a power almost as great as that of the sovereigns.
                        Then, besides the princely dowry, there was in the bargain the golden
                        damsel, whose radiant image obtruded upon many of Lerin's day-dreams.
                    Out in the Camino Ancho, where marching troops were passing with an
                        earth-shaking tread under the waving banner of Castile and Aragon, welled a
                        vast shout:
                    "Á Castilla! Viva la Reina! [Long live Isabella, the great Queen!] Viva el de
                        las hazañas! [Long live the bold cavalier of the exploits!]"
                    Shouts, laughter, and the beating of arms in applause multiplied, running the
                        full length of the marching columns and abroad over the sunlit campo. Under
                        the advancing banner of Castile and Aragon the shout ever erupted:
                    "Á Castilla! Viva la Reina!"
                    Into that interrupted consultation came then, on light feet, Don Diego de
                        Cordova, captain of the royal pages. With the sun of the new morning in his
                        young face and the zest of life in his comely presence, he knelt before the
                        Queen, saying:
                    "Avenged, sweet lady! To-day the Moor suffers his own insolence hurled into
                        his face! Never again will he affront the Christians' Queen!"
                    
                    "What is this?" Ferdinand demanded.
                    The courtiers parted, the dames stood aside that the royal pair might hear at
                        once and together what the young courtier had come to tell.
                    "The insult to her Majesty has been avenged, sire!" Don Diego declared. "When
                        Yarfe flung the spear at her tent two nights ago Don Hernando Perez del
                        Pulgar took that indignity sore to heart. Last night he rode into Granada
                        and took possession of the great mosque in her Majesty's name and posted an
                        'Ave' on the portals."
                    "Viva la Reina! Viva el de las hazañas!" roared the passing troops
                        without.
                    Instantly every sword in the circle of knights in the royal pavilion leaped
                        from its scabbard and flashed in a ringing chaplet of steel above the head
                        of the beloved sovereign, and the roadway was answered by the acclaim of the
                        courtiers.
                    "He took fifteen as brave cavaliers as himself," Don Diego went on as soon as
                        he could make himself heard, "and these held the gate against the Moorish
                        garrison through such a slashing combat as only a handful of reckless young
                        Christians can make against a mob of enraged Moors. And they came
                        clear—by the mass!—without the loss of a man nor much more
                        than a leech's drawing of red blood."
                    "What a king of daredevils that Pulgar is!" Ferdinand declared.
                    "He shall be given the right of sepulchre in the mosque!" the Queen
                        averred.
                    "He took no part in the combat himself," the narrator continued. "Under the
                        cover of midnight he and his fifteen crept up into the very shadow of the
                        walls before they were discovered. In the hurly-burly that followed, Don
                        Hernando spurred through the tumult of Moors rushing to arms and galloped
                        into the city. The alarm aroused the citizens, but a galloping horseman in
                        the dark streets meant no invasion to them, who flew to  the fight raging at the gates. Meanwhile, Pulgar reached the
                        square, dismounted, drew his sword, and took possession of the great dark
                        mosque in her Majesty's name, said him a prayer, and nailed the 'Ave' to the
                        portals with his dagger. By that time his way was cumbered with infidels,
                        but Don Hernando loves nothing so well as a difficulty. He ran them through;
                        he trampled them down; he outrode them, and was among his band of bravos,
                        cut and slash, before they had missed him. Then away toward the campo they
                        raced, helter-skelter, fighting off their pursuers, shielding one another,
                        until the sentry lines covered their retreat and the exploit was
                        accomplished!"
                    The King smote the table before him and laughed aloud, turned then, and,
                        putting off his plumed cap, louted his knee and kissed his Queen's hand.
                    "Naught but such grace as thine, sweet lady," he said, "could inspire such
                        valor."
                    "All the world knows who braces the Christian's arm and fires his heart!" Don
                        Diego cried as he still knelt, with a hand on his breast and another
                        outstretched in a gesture of unfeigned love for the Queen.
                    An unaccustomed flush stole over Isabella's white cheek and her modest eyes
                        dropped before the affectionate gaze of her court.
                    "Give Christian valor all its due, gentles," she said.
                    "Who, now, were these fifteen?" the King demanded.
                    "Sire, as motley a list as one could well select from a camp of forty
                        thousand Christians," Don Diego declared heartily. "Pulgar makes no terms
                        with rank when he picks for valor. I cannot name them all. But there were a
                        duque and two hidalgos as your extremes and all the rank of Spain between.
                        One was the Señor de Villagarcia; another, Don Francisco de Bazan; a third,
                        Roderick de Mendoza, with Garcilaso de la Vega and this young Don Beltran
                        Ponce de Leon."
                    "Ah, Ponce de Leon takes his revenge on the Moors at once!" the King
                        commented.
                    
                    "It was he who shed the blood for the party and so delighted his suzerain and
                        uncle that the marques knighted him this morning before breakfast, without
                        further ado!"
                    "Verily," said the King to Lerin, "give a man a son in his old age and he
                        grows fatuous with delight over it!"
                    He turned to Quintanilla and said quietly: "Deza and Calcena report that this
                        young Ponce became proficient in engineering in his captivity. What do you
                        think of him?"
                    For the moment diverted by the interruption, Ferdinand dropped again into the
                        serious discussion of business. The assemblage, used to Don Ferdinand's
                        attention to affairs, moved away from him about the livelier and less
                        self-centred Doña Isabella, who conducted her councils in less
                        undertone.
                    "A true Ponce," returned Quintanilla, "but, according to the marques,
                        inclined to be roving and averse to the kind of living that makes a good
                        lord. Light, slender as a reed, he can never excel in arms, but he is surely
                        good enough material to make an engineer."
                    "Builds fortifications, canals, harbors, and such manifold works of peace as
                        this harried nation will need after the war is over?" the King queried.
                    "That is his gift."
                    Don Ferdinand lifted his square chin in a half-finished nod.
                    "Send him to me this afternoon before the oraciones. I believe that trade
                        should be led up into the body of Spain. It should not be allowed to collect
                        along the coast to the detriment of cities within the heart of the realm.
                        There, now, are Sevilla and Cordova. The Guadalquivir is navigable by ocean
                        merchantmen; at least it has been. Cordova should not be starved while Cadiz
                        flourishes, when the same caravels that touch at the quays of Cadiz may
                        discharge cargoes at Sevilla and Cordova as well. Sevilla is a splendid
                        city, the city of the kings. I have a mind to make her worthy the  name. Don Francisco Ramirez de Madrid believes
                        that the river can be made reliable where now it fails the inland cities at
                        certain seasons. If young Ponce is the engineer that Don Francisco is, young
                        Ponce shall make Sevilla the port of the world."
                    Quintanilla, listening to the King's scheme, lightly tapped his book.
                    "Oh, ay," said the King, "I do not forget how poor I am. But am I never to
                        have credit for aught? It is but human that Ferdinand should wish to leave a
                        monument to Ferdinand himself."
                    Quintanilla was a finished courtier not to betray a scintilla of
                        comprehension at this resentment aimed at Ferdinand's own people because of
                        their adulation of Isabella.
                    "The young man hath had eight years of training. He should be versed in the
                        science. But Don Francisco can tell you without a doubt."
                    The King spoke to Lerin, who was waiting to be dismissed.
                    "How do you fare in this man's entertainment?" waving his hand toward
                        Quintanilla.
                    "Capitally!" Lerin declared.
                    "You should," said the King, "for he is the finest host in Spain. But his
                        heart is too big. There is ever a motley company at his hostelry."
                    "His Majesty," said Quintanilla to Lerin, "is a mighty hunter. He hath bagged
                        us both at one shot."
                    "Quintanilla," Ferdinand went on without mercy, "believes that the world is
                        round, because, forsooth, a sailor told him so."
                    At this remark the Queen signed a dame in waiting to stand aside, and visibly
                        put herself into the conversation. Quintanilla showed awakening interest in
                        the trend of the King's remarks.
                    "And he gave the sailor shelter," Ferdinand went on, "till what time he can
                        convince me also."
                    The auditor's long, slender face was heartily alight  by this time. The King was of his own accord leading up to a
                        subject which the auditor had pledged himself to broach.
                    "Your Majesty, it is the very word I would hear you say. But I would inform
                        you, sir"—to the Conde de Lerin—"that his work is half
                        done."
                    "How half?" Ferdinand demanded.
                    "Her Majesty is half," Quintanilla declared, bowing to the Queen.
                    "My faith!" Ferdinand exclaimed. "He will not find the other half so easily
                        persuaded."
                    "We are none discouraged," Quintanilla declared, "for here am I with a
                        petition for him to be heard this afternoon."
                    "I have a dukedom in Aragon to settle this afternoon," the King returned.
                    "Nay; but my sailor hath a new kingdom to offer you, sire."
                    "For which I must pay in advance," Ferdinand retorted.
                    Isabella signed for Quintanilla to draw near.
                    "Is Cristobal Colon within our camp?" she asked.
                    "He is, madame. Here to ask a final answer to a petition five years pending,"
                        Quintanilla answered gravely.
                    "He insists on an answer as pointed as a treaty," the King said
                        sarcastically.
                    "Sire, he would not carry an offer to Spain to another court with Spain's
                        answer unmade," Quintanilla explained.
                    "Spain would not take offense," Ferdinand declared lightly.
                    "Nay, but Henry of England and Charles of France will demand a clean
                        dismissal before they form a valuable contract with him."
                    "I wish my fellow monarchs the joy of him," the King laughed.
                    "They have sent for him." "I am loath to believe it!"
                    
                    "I saw the letters," Quintanilla declared. "And count it no impertinence but
                        a partisanship to you, my liege, when I say that Henry of England, is too
                        acquisitive a prince to be blind to his own gain when Colon comes suing to
                        his court for patronage."
                    "My lord," Isabella said to the King, "it is but fair that this man should be
                        finally answered. He hath wasted his substance hovering about our court for
                        so many years, and he grows old with delayed hope. We should in all kindness
                        dismiss him and allow him to go elsewhere if we mean not to support
                        him."
                    Lerin, with a mental reservation, looked at the Queen. She was a little
                        woman; meagre and worn by the veteran life she led, with a man's
                        intelligence in her paleblue eye, masculine endurance in her frame, and
                        temperamental pertinacity and force in her sandy coloring and the aquilinity
                        of her profile. Careful tendance had preserved her complexion and her
                        features in their original charm, but failing vitality and the score of her
                        tireless years began to show themselves in the lines that crossed her white
                        forehead and lay about her eyes and the corners of her mouth.
                    "It would be as hard," said Lerin to himself, "for the King to endure such a
                        nature as hers must be as it is for the Queen to keep it so perfectly out of
                        sight." Aloud, he said to the sovereigns: "Why does he threaten Spain with
                        the favor of other courts? If he must spend a fortune for some patron, let
                        him go to a wealthy subject."
                    "He went to the Duque de Medina-Celi," Quintanilla explained, "but it is no
                        project for private enterprise. The Peraza family has tried to hold the
                        Canaries, but will be compelled to give them up."
                    "I pray your pardon, sire and madame, if I presume to remind you," Calcena
                        put in at this point, "that the council of Salamanca reached no agreement
                        upon the Italian's claims. No answer can be given him when no answer was
                        given. If he is to be answered he must be heard again."
                    
                    "That examination lasted ten or fifteen days," Quintanilla protested. "Is it
                        necessary to cover all that ground again?"
                    "The records may be adduced," Calcena suggested, "and a recapitulation
                        submitted for the approval of the Genoese. Little time would be consumed and
                        an answer arrived at regularly."
                    "The process of the hearing may be debated later," the Queen said, "I am
                        willing that he be heard again."
                    "Satisfy yourself, madame," Ferdinand remarked indifferently. "I have no
                        interest whatever in the matter."
                    "You will not appoint a time nor name a junta?" she asked mildly.
                    "All in your hands, my lady."
                    "Then, good Quintanilla, say to Señor Colon that this day one month hence we
                        shall set apart for the consideration of his petition by a junta which I
                        myself shall be pleased to appoint."
                    "I thank you, madame," said Quintanilla earnestly, "in Colon's behalf and
                        most gratefully in mine own."
                    "Come, Jaime," said Ferdinand, rising and taking Lerin's arm, "and see our
                        guns."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    A LAGGARD IN LOVE
                    ALTHOUGH the supremacy of brawn and muscle had entered
                        upon its decline with the invention of gunpowder, chivalry still stood at
                        the zenith of its glory in Spain. The great man on the great horse was too
                        ancient a pride to be supplanted readily by any kind of a creature with a
                        hand-gun, or by a slender, white-handed exquisite with a supple steel
                        foil.
                    Necessarily, the superb Lerin stood for all that was ideal in the eyes of the
                        Spanish people. With all his height and might, locked in matchless armor and
                        handsomely mounted, he rode down, like a veritable embodiment of the age of
                        chivalry, upon the campo filled with the lighter, smaller Latins.
                    With that adulation which the human race accords to its perfect specimens, he
                        was immediately elected to a place of solitary pre-eminence when his title
                        became his description. The campo called him "El Conde." The rest of the
                        gentilhombres of that rank readily admitted the distinction and added their
                        patronyms to distinguish themselves.
                    Lerin had been in the campo seven days before he asked and had appointed for
                        him an interview with the King's ward, Doña Antonia de Aragon.
                    Where and how he had entertained himself in that interval, Antonia was
                        informed by that amiable damsel the golden Sancha de Guzman.
                    On that Wednesday, some little time. before the oraciones from which Antonia
                        was excused by the sympathizing  Queen, the
                        Marquesa de Moya was engaged in the apartment of her charge, preparing her
                        for the most important interview in a Spanish damsel's life. With her, to
                        make the occasion lively and Antonia's discomfort complete, were the Other
                        knightly maids, Doña Francesca Ponce de Leon, Doña Leonor de la Cerda, and
                        the golden damsel, Doña Sancha de Guzman.
                    Antonia's apartment was small, as the constricted quarters of a tent made it,
                        and it afforded barely room enough for such company.
                    But Leonor occupied a chair and allowed them to pile the smother of gowns
                        upon her knees while they critically examined Antonia's wardrobe for the
                        most effective dress. Francesca perched on the foot-board of the bed and the
                        golden damsel sat on the chest. With compressed lips and a lowered brow, the
                        marquesa was not to be prevented from her best art in Antonia's behalf, and
                        there were already signs that the three knightly maids understood to mean
                        that the invasion was growing onerous.
                    "But I cannot wear pink," Antonia protested. "There is too much of it in this
                        gown. I am tanned."
                    "Tanned!" the marquesa repeated, looking up from a small jewel-casket to
                        inspect her ward's complexion.
                    "Now, madame, pray, look," the tirewoman complained. "Is she tanned? And if
                        she be tanned, then there is no virtue in plasters and May
                        dew—"
                    "Peace, wench," the marquesa interrupted. "If she were as white as jasmine
                        she would yet find fault with herself. It is a fortunate sign for
                        Lerin."
                    "That tinge on her face is not tan," the golden damsel declared. "That is
                        nature."
                    "What is nature?" demanded Francesca, bristling.
                    "Quiá! Is not her complexion natural, then?" the golden one asked.
                    "Here, we shall wear the pink," declared the marquesa. "It is a man's
                        sweetheart among the colors. On with it! Mind her hair!"
                    
                    While the servant slipped the gown of pink brocade, powdered with white and
                        gold flowers, over Antonia's shoulders, put her arms through the long,
                        close-fitting sleeves that covered her hands to the knuckles, and buttoned
                        the bodice, strapped the loose gold girdle through its jewelled clasp, and
                        dropped the single end finished with a point of precious metal down to the
                        hem of the skirt that lay upon the floor, the marquesa stood off and watched
                        with increasing satisfaction.
                    "El Conde's color, though, dear doña marquesa," said the golden one, after
                        all was done, "is green. He always wears it. He says it makes a man appear
                        darker and stronger and a woman who hath aught of color in her face like a
                        flower."
                    "'He says!'" Antonia repeated scornfully. "Is he a mercer or a draper that he
                        talks stuffs and gowns?"
                    "And so," observed Francesca to the golden one, "since your noble grandsire
                        is visiting the campo, and the conde calls frequently, you always wear a
                        green gown."
                    "'Talks stuffs and gowns!'" the golden one flared back at Antonia. "How well
                        you show that you never heard him talk!"
                    "I may hear him talk last, but I shall hear him talk longest!" Antonia
                        averred coolly.
                    "Oh, doubtless," sighed the golden one. "Poor Don Jaime! He says that the
                        greatest contradiction in his life is the assumption that he enjoys
                        liberty."
                    "Fortunate that your Lerin is a fine, great man," observed the marquesa,
                        ignoring the remarks of the golden one. "How you would shrivel a meagre
                        creature!"
                    The golden damsel put her hands back of her fair head and leaned against the
                        tent wall. Her blue eyes laughed, and Antonia replied with unusual dignity
                        to the marquesa's words.
                    "Small fault to be found with my lord," she said. "But he is a mature man and
                        I have my green years and my poverty to overcome."
                    
                    "Just that and no more to overcome?" the golden damsel asked sweetly.
                    "You stand shoulder to shoulder in the same excellence," the marquesa
                        declared stoutly, "and you breast the same labor. Naught so binds heart to
                        heart like that. By your aid he will achieve his great work, and with the
                        largess of your face and your youth, Antonia, he will love and strive right
                        blithely."
                    "The doña marquesa's encouragement," said the golden damsel, "smacketh
                        somewhat of soothsaying."
                    "Which is interdict by the church," added Francesca. "And is more or less
                        untrustworthy at the best," concluded the golden one.
                    The marquesa, with a sparkle in her black eye, raised herself from an
                        inspection of the set of Antonia's gown, and the three knightly maids sprang
                        up at once.
                    "Hark! Is not that the chapel bell?" said Leonor. "Mine aunt will be
                        expecting me," said Francesca.
                    "I would change my gown to a green one," said the golden damsel as they
                        pressed about the arras and into the outer chamber, where their attendants
                        waited, and so, laughing, rustled away.
                    "Now, though I am loath to say it," observed the marquesa, "Medina-Sidonia
                        does his granddaughter wrong to hold off so coolly from the King. He will
                        countenance no engagement for her among these stout young supporters of Don
                        Ferdinand, and, if you scent a bit too much torment in her manner, doubt not
                        that the child has a right to be envious."
                    "She is not happy," declared Antonia with sympathy. "Between her loyalty to
                        her house and her love, she is sorely divided-under all her merriment."
                    "Her love? You believe, then, that, in spite of her mistreatment of Don
                        Garcilaso, she loves him?"
                    "Nay; who would not love him if she let herself?" Antonia asked, smiling.
                        "But I believe poor Sancha feels that to encourage Don Garcilaso would set
                        up strife to the death between him and the Duque de Medina-Sidonia.  And she knows that, since Don Garcilaso could
                        command the support of the King, the outcome of such a strife would not be
                        long in doubt. How could she go over to the man who had triumphed over her
                        own blood?"
                    "Poor maid," said the marquesa softly. "Seest thou, my Antonia, how cruelly
                        her heart hath clouded her life? Thank God no such cross-purposes stand in
                        thine own path to happiness!"
                    The tirewoman, on her knees, latched the sabbatons of gold cloth, smoothed
                        down the folds of the white-and-pink-and-gold gown, and settled back on her
                        heels to gaze entranced at her young mistress. The marquesa laid a
                        crespinette of gold mesh over Antonia's black locks and tied its white
                        ribbons under her chin.
                    "And," pursued the marquesa, recurring to the talk that the three knightly
                        maids had interrupted, "the King hath pledged himself to dower you as a
                        princess of the blood. Forget your poverty. Lerin will see nothing of
                        it."
                    She put a strand of bright pearls about Antonia's neck.
                    "It is all one," Antonia objected. "The fortune is not mine in the beginning.
                        Who would not shrink from being made desirable!"
                    "La!" smiled the marquesa. "She is in love already."
                    "No," Antonia protested, coloring. "But I am still a pensioner upon his
                        Majesty's bounty, borne helpless by him from my cradle to my wedded lord,
                        unable to lift mine own weight off his hands."
                    The marquesa preceded her charge into the sala. "It is some time before the
                        hour," she observed when they had seated themselves. "A sense of
                        unworthiness is the last feeling that should possess a maid expecting to be
                        sued in marriage. You must know who you are, what you are to do, and what
                        you will be. In the beginning the foul suspicion of murder ignited and
                        fanned by Calcena, who ruined your noble father, could have  been refuted and disproved by the King, Don
                        Ferdinand, had he been less diligent for the work that was to supply his
                        treasury and more by the love of his own kindred. Fief, fortune, and all
                        that escaped Calcena reverted to the King. It is his duty to replace that
                        which he allowed to be wrested from you unfairly. And as for the Conde de
                        Lerin, his wealth is summed when you have seen his wardrobe and counted his
                        retinue."
                    "Now," the noble lady went on, after a silence, "you are neither beholden to
                        the one nor inferior to the other. Without your fortune Lerin cannot overrun
                        Navarre. You are to win for him the office of viceroy and maintain him
                        therein. You deliver to Don Ferdinand new territory and right plentifully
                        repay him for a dowry which he in justice owes to you, at any rate. All
                        three of you are joined with each other for the common weal of the realm.
                        Consider your part great and esteem yourself accordingly."
                    For a time Antonia made no answer, but the marquesa saw that her expression
                        was changing.
                    "So I win me a loving lord," she said finally, "I shall be satisfied."
                    "You should," said the marquesa heartily, "but it will be no simple game to
                        play with the Conde de Lerin. He is a superb man, and the women of the big
                        world have been at his command. You must make well, Antonia."
                    "Don Ferdinand hath set à high mark for my little reach," Antonia answered,
                        smiling a little uncertainly. "His perfect nephew might have chosen
                        something better, as his simple niece might have been sàtisfied with
                        something less perfect."
                    The marquesa tossed her small head.
                    "It is all in the way the game is played. Do you mean to tell me that you
                        have to be taught?"
                    But Antonia's eyes wandered away from the noble lady. Love in a heart like
                        hers had not resolved itself into a game. It seemed to her that the
                        marquesa's  homily would have been better
                        understood by the golden Guzman.
                    The grande sala had been subjected to some changes from the council-room of
                        the great Marques de Moya to a bower fit for the feet of a lover and the
                        presence of a maid to be wooed and won. The estrada with its canopy was
                        still in place; the long strip of scarlet carpet approached it; but it had
                        been scattered with cushions. A rebec leaned against one of the cathedras; a
                        Rhodian vase filled with rose-leaves and fragrant gums stood at the edge of
                        the estrada and exhaled an Oriental perfume into the air. From the canopy
                        depended a Moorish lamp, a hooded flame, netted with filigree and prismatic
                        with insets of carbuncle, beryl, amethyst, and topaz, wondrously glowing but
                        very little light-giving. Under the lambent rainbow was a tabouret; on the
                        tabouret an "Office to the Virgin," marvellously illuminated. And here was
                        set Antonia's seat, and to this spot her suitor was to come.
                    Beside one of the cathedras, some little distance away, there was a brass
                        lamp burning on a tripod, and a manuscript in Latin lay upon the cushion of
                        the great chair. It was evident that here and by such means the marquesa
                        meant to employ herself during the interview.
                    From her place Antonia could see through the parted entrance of the tent that
                        opened into the antechamber out upon the roadway.
                    The darkness was falling. The ladies of the Queen's train came from their
                        quarters on their way to the oraciones. Came the ranking duquesa, the
                        Marquesa de Cadiz, lady to Don Roderigo Ponce de Leon; came the Duquesa de
                        Villena, lady to Don Juan Pacheco, Duque de Escalona; came the Condesa de
                        Tendilla; the Condesa de Cifuentes; the Condesa de Cabra; the Condesa de
                        Urena; came all the ladies in the great campo, with their kin and their
                        noble wards, except the golden Guzman.
                    Antonia watched them pass. With her knowledge of  affairs, she was able to trace an effect each one of these marriages had
                        achieved as they had been planned. The vitality of the nation was sustained
                        by linked hands; by a network of alliances through which the life-spark of
                        finance, politics, dominion, and strength raced uninterrupted. She was an
                        integral part of this fabric, and she had come to the hour when her use
                        confronted her. Few or none of these noble ladies had achieved so notably
                        for their families or for Spain as she was expected to do. Without her, this
                        goodly lord would have his wings trimmed and the nation might never expand
                        to the summit of the Pyrenees. She felt herself become mature as she saw the
                        intents and purposes of life spread out before her. She waited for Lerin's
                        coming with high resolve. She saw her part and would act it gladly and
                        lovingly.
                    The rustle and the murmur of the going to the oraciones thinned out and
                        ceased. Guards lighted torches along the sides of the Camino Ancho. On the
                        opposite side of the broad road continued, indeed, the hurly-burly of a
                        great army encamped, but Antonia had grown so accustomed to the noise that
                        it ceased to make an impression upon her. Above it, as distinctly as above
                        silence, she could distinguish other sounds, and as clearly as in an empty
                        space she could fix her attention upon other sights. She saw, as if the
                        multitudinous milling of countless armed men and mounted knights and
                        cavorting horses were not within her range of vision, that Torquemada, the
                        inquisitor-general, with his escort, rode swiftly by, late to a service for
                        the first time within her knowledge. She saw Don Garcilaso de la Vega set
                        out to walk with Don Beltran Ponce de Leon, and immediately the trend of her
                        thoughts altered.
                    "Ah," she said to herself, as she noted Don Beltran's doublet of russet
                        velvet and hosen of satin, his sword-scabbard at his hip, and the capa with
                        its scallops of Santiago, and the tilted bonnet with its russet plume upon
                        one side of his russet head, "they have belted my  knight that I brought into the world again at such peril to
                        myself! The ingrate! He might slip to my side and whisper 'thanks' for
                        chivalry's sake!"
                    From her little guilty glow over the secret that she shared with the
                        interesting young noble, she was led into a dubious speculation about
                        Calcena's state of mind and about what the King's secretary might do to
                        uncover her identity.
                    "Colon saw me, and Colon, like Don Beltran, hath an eye that is alive to
                        womankind! The Italian knew me! But he is the gallantest cavalier that ever
                        grew gray without his spurs. El Conde did not! And there, on my soul, I am
                        sore bested! That he should touch me, talk with me—and so plainly
                        fail to know me as a woman, to the point of exposing me to mine
                        enemy—I cannot understand!"
                    "I shall never regret it!" she told herself firmly. "Fortune so obtained
                        would have brought me evil— would have clouded my marriage. The
                        resentful soul of Juan Garcia would have hung over my path like a reproach
                        and, perchance, would have worked harm to my lord's causes. My dowry must
                        come by another way; if ill-gotten, at least I shall not have connived at
                        it."
                    Then Lerin appeared under the last torch at the farther end of her range of
                        vision.
                    There was already that something about him that identifies the expected man
                        in the night for the woman who awaits him. Antonia knew that she would have
                        known him had there been no torch near by to throw his figure into broad
                        light.
                    Then the great Duque de Medina-Sidonia, a visitor in the campo, with a
                        body-guard and two linkboys, emerged from the Camino Estrecho and passed the
                        tent of the Marquesa de Moya on his way to the oraciones. With him and by
                        her mule-pace governing the movement of the train came his granddaughter
                        Doña Sancha de Guzman.
                    
                    Under the light of the links it was to be seen that she had, indeed, changed
                        her dress to a green gown, one all shimmering tinsel-brocatel, with a mantle
                        of green over gilt, embroidered with leaves, and about her golden head she
                        wore a chaplet of pearls. And in that wonderful dress she looked unreal and
                        elfin and capable of all the enchantments of a fairy.
                    Antonia picked up the illuminated "Office of the Virgin" and paged through
                        its limp sheets.
                    When she looked up again Lerin had disappeared.
                    After the first surprise Antonia was perfectly clear about what had happened.
                        Lerin had turned about in the company of the great lord and the lovely
                        knightly maid. The Duque de Medina-Sidonia would think nothing unusual if
                        the young nobleman accompanied him to the oraciones.
                    The Marquesa de Moya, who had seated herself a little apart in her great
                        chair, finished her reading.
                    She noted each step without her tent; she listened; she waited.
                    Finally, with the utmost circumspection, she looked at Antonia. The graceful
                        figure of the damsel was rest-fully bestowed, with her shoulders against one
                        cushion, her feet dinting another upon the floor. The "Office of the Virgin"
                        held her eyes steadily.
                    The marquesa took satisfaction in the evidence that Antonia seemed properly
                        unconscious of her suitor's delay.
                    After an hour the gentle footfall and the silken rustling began to float by
                        in whispering clusters.
                    "The service is only now at end," the marquesa observed.
                    "It is past the hour," Antonia returned calmly. "Her Majesty had a new
                        breviary to present, which detained them longer."
                    "A wonderfully grateful woman," said the marquesa, coming over to sit beside
                        Antonia.
                    "She is a blessed Queen. All her causes prosper."
                    
                    "She makes them prosper," the marquesa declared with spirit, "even in the
                        face of the blackest opposition. I have seen her do that many times during
                        our friendship, and we were children together.
                    "When she was a young maid, her brother Enrique of Castile was determined to
                        marry her to the dissolute master of Calatrava, a coarse and bloody old man.
                        Enrique rudely ordered her to prepare for the nuptials with the same
                        finality that he would show in commanding a groom to hold his horse.
                        Isabella shut herself up and began to fast and beseech Heaven to save her
                        from such a miserable fate. As for myself"—and the good marquesa
                        laughed a little—"I ground a dagger keen and vowed to plunge it
                        into the heart of the old villain the moment he appeared.
                    "Now, whether Heaven heard the princess or the devil wanted his own, I have
                        never decided. But the doddering old rake fell ill on his way to Castile and
                        expired forthwith."
                    Antonia drew in a deep breath.
                    "And then they arranged her marriage with Don Ferdinand?"
                    "They arranged it? She arranged it herself," the marquesa declared. "They had
                        next settled upon an alliance with the King of Portugal, another old rogue,
                        when the princess, breaking away from her helpless fear, despatched
                        messengers of her own in hot haste to Aragon to see what kind of prince the
                        young Don Ferdinand might be.
                    "Her messengers returned with such happy accounts of his youth and comeliness
                        and bravery that the princess regarded him as appointed by Heaven to save
                        her. She loved him before she had seen him.
                    "He was invited to come to Castile, and whén he arrived she placed herself
                        where she could see him without being seen. She had with her the chamberlain
                        Cardenas, who had seen Don Ferdinand, that the young prince might be pointed
                        out to her when the train rode  up to the
                        palace. But when the moment arrived good Cardenas was so overcome with
                        excitement that he fell headlong through the phrase 'ese es, ese es' (' that
                        is he'), repeating it in such a string of sibillations that the princess
                        betrayed her hiding-place to her lord to be with a helpless burst of
                        laughter. As punishment for this merry blunder, good Cardenas was obliged to
                        put the letter 's' in his armorial device.
                    "And then," the marquesa continued, warming to her subject, "both of these
                        well-matched lovers were so poor that they had to borrow money to meet the
                        expenses of their wedding. And, worse than that, the tyrannical Enrique,
                        having been outdone, they needs must beseech the pope for permission to wed,
                        and when they had been married they found that the papal bull which had
                        granted them dispensation had been forged by the too willing guardian of the
                        young groom. And so, after all their pains, they were not yet united with
                        the sanction of the pope, and in shame and fear they lived until the real
                        consent reached them.
                    "Heigh-ho! Beware of these matches nicely oiled. They are like the apple that
                        falls into our hands, sapless, compared to the one we must beat from the
                        tree."
                    The story touched Antonia at many points. So clearly was the narrative meant
                        to comfort her for the lapse of her suitor in attentiveness that she could
                        not face the kind-hearted marquesa at once.
                    "And so that is why the Queen hath such sympathy for maids about to be
                        married," she murmured.
                    "It was her especial charge," the marquesa began, but a page bowed in the
                        opening leading to the antechamber.
                    "My lord the Conde de Lerin waits without," he said.
                    The marquesa's story had achieved upon Antonia an opposite effect from that
                        which her ladyship had intended. She had nothing to tell of want of devotion
                        between the King and the Queen. It had been the  romantic story of two lovers overcoming external difficulties, and it
                        lacked a parallel to Lerin's case.
                    When the conde, fresh from the breeze of the night without, smiling and
                        visibly armed with purpose, was conducted within the grande sala he was
                        prepared to overcome the marquesa's reserve and to break down Antonia's
                        determined air.
                    He bent low over the marquesa's little hand.
                    "What a genius," he said, "to make a castle out of a tent!"
                    He waved his hand at Antonia while he still held the marquesa's fingers.
                    "Have you brought her up?" he demanded.
                    "Since she was a babe," the marquesa smiled.
                    "Then she, too, knows how to do it."
                    He took Antonia's hand and kissed it, looked deep into her eyes, and then
                        begged permission to sit beside her. At her consent he dropped with a sigh
                        as of complete contentment into her cushions.
                    "Myself," he said, "I am tired of tents, weary of all the noise of the open
                        world, sick of the many faces; and how I hate a horse! Oh, for a cool,
                        strong, silent castle and a sweet woman to welcome me home!"
                    The marquesa, with a little retrospective smile on her face, sat down in her
                        chair, took up her manuscript, and turned the blaze of a lamp toward her.
                        All would be well, she was confident, with Lerin's big, overwhelming
                        personality thus manfully set to hi task.
                    "And you," went on Lerin to Antonia, "are out of your element in this
                        deficient living: sleeping near the ground like a sweet vagabond, and making
                        shift like a soldier upon the march, and blinding your beautiful black eyes
                        in this merciless sun."
                    At this Antonia lifted the wisdom of her gray eyes so veiled with long black
                        lashes that he failed to observe that his tribute to their beauty was lame
                        as to color.
                    "Nay, but I love it," she said. "It is playtime."
                    "It is for a season, but the charm soon wears off."
                    
                    "Does it? Now, I have followed the Queen for ten years and still am content
                        with the life."
                    "Ten years! Heavens, what a veteran! My faith, you have never been a
                        woman."
                    "Never," she admitted. "I can ride a horse, handle a dagger, breast the
                        weather, and watch a fight like a cavalier. And I should grow restless with
                        inactivity as any other soldier detained from the wars."
                    Lerin cast a penetrating look at Antonia and noted while he examined her
                        remarks that he had erred in the color of her eyes. He was satisfied that in
                        the unlucky slip lay the animus of her attitude.
                    "Your eyes are gray," he said in a wonder-struck tone-" gray like the angel's
                        by Fra Angelico on the walls of San Marco."
                    "The angel and I are both out of case, then," she returned calmly, "for all
                        angels should be blue-eyed and all Spaniards black-eyed."
                    "But yes," he averred, smiling in triumph, "the Navarrese are gray-eyed, and
                        it was Heaven's intent that you should be of Navarre."
                    "Hath even Heaven its disappointments?"
                    "But I have come a long way to mend the matter."
                    "That, sir, cannot be done. I had mine eyes from my father."
                    "Ay, but you shall have the country to which your eyes belong from your
                        lord."
                    At this Antonia flushed, for the conde was more skilful at wooing than she
                        was at fence.
                    "But I love my Aragon," she said. "It must be a charming Navarre to win my
                        fealty from my native land."
                    "Not yet so charming as it will be when it wins its highest chatelaine."
                    This was moving faster toward a determination than Antonia's injured pride
                        was ready to meet.
                    "To be a chatelaine means to renounce freedom and to assume state; to give
                        over pleasure and assume care;  to surrender
                        youth and take on years. It will be a serious land to the new
                        chatelaine."
                    "It is already serious-too serious. So that we lovers of light and sweetness
                        and youth and music come out of Navarre into Spain for our loves. So I am
                        here for my chatelaine before Granada."
                    Antonia sought busily for a loophole to escape the proposal. She was far from
                        being appeased and wholly determined not to accept an uninspired suitor.
                    "Light, sweetness, youth, and music," she repeated, "are not to be found in
                        one who has never been a woman and who has come to be a veteran. And she
                        beside whom you sit loves the life so well that she means to stay with it
                        until the last tent is struck."
                    "Oh, be kind!" he urged. "This will be along siege before Granada, and I am
                        weary of war. I have no heart for a long sojourn here."
                    "Then I wish you despatch in your business that you may hence to your
                        repose," she said kindly.
                    "Aid me, then, for you are my business!"
                    "I your business? I the purpose that brought you so far and through so many
                        perils? Santa Maria, how important I am! I fear so weighty an affair may not
                        be settled readily."
                    Vexation and amusement flickered around Lerin's thin, red lips. Don Ferdinand
                        had told him that Antonia would require a season of courtship and had smiled
                        slyly when Lerin had answered with flippancy.
                    "The King hath deceived me," he said plaintively. "I was led to believe that
                        he had pitied my diffidence and had sued for me that my success might be
                        swift and inevitable."
                    Inevitable! The smile grew a little fixed about her mouth. In one of those
                        instant revelations that expose realities as lightning in darkness throws
                        the landscape into sudden and fleeting day she understood exactly Lerin's
                        feeling in his courtship.
                    "Inevitable?" she repeated. "So Don Ferdinand is  as confident of his nephew's prowess as a wooer as he is of the
                        simplicity of his niece."
                    "Don Ferdinand," said Lerin, gaining a little edge on his voice, "is wrong,
                        it seems, in both presumptions."
                    "Good my lord, how can you be sure of that at once?" she asked quietly.
                    Lerin raised himself from his indolent posture and pressed her hand before he
                        released it. He was not at loss to understand her uncompromising attitude.
                        He knew that he had delayed too long in delicious company, and that the
                        memory of the golden damsel's speeches to him and the salt of his speeches
                        to her had spent the enthusiasm that he should have carried to Antonia.
                    The bugle down in the barraca wound the melodious call to quarters, and Lerin
                        gladly heard it. He would come again.
                    "To-morrow," he said, "we ride in her Majesty's train to La Zubia to see
                        Granada. I have besought the Queen for permission to ride with you, if I can
                        win your consent. And so, I pray you, lady, be gracious. Let me be your
                        humble errant knight before all the campo and appear by your side."
                    "My lord does me much honor," she said formally. "It shall be my
                        pleasure."
                    "To-morrow, then, let him look wishfully upon Granada who will. I have mine
                        own fair prize to contemplate, to long for, and to conquer."
                    He bade her farewell and stepped to the side of the marquesa, where, with a
                        resumption of his animated manner, he complimented the noble lady and
                        congratulated himself. Then he bowed to both of them and passed out of the
                        sala.
                    The marquesa beckoned to Antonia.
                    "I heard all," she said, "as I expected to hear. Better that you had in fair
                        words let him understand that his delay displeased you rather than to fend
                        him off petulantly as you did. That, Antonia, is no way by which the Conde
                        de Lerin is to be won."
                    
                    "Antonia de Aragon needs no instruction, madame, upon the ways and means of
                        winning the Conde de Lerin. It is most apparent to any one. But it was my
                        thought that he was to win me, not that I was to win him."
                    "What difference is there?" the marquesa demanded. "You must marry him. You
                        have at this time within your hands the opportunity to make for yourself a
                        happy marriage or an unhappy one. If you see, as you declare you do, how he
                        may be won, win him."
                    "That, dear doña marquesa, can never be accomplished. The last pretty mouth
                        can overthrow my supremacy with a pretty speech."
                    "Oh, he is a man and a Spaniard," the marquesa exclaimed with impatience.
                        "What else do you expect?"
                    "I expect at least an interested suitor."
                    "Interest him, then. If you are set upon a love-match, lay to it. Let it be
                        your life-work, since you must wed him."
                    "Must!" said Antonia, stiffening. "Must! Nay; there are tricks to baffle
                        everything except death, the old women say."
                    She turned away from the startled marquesa and withdrew to her apartment. The
                        marquesa sat on for a little time staring at her lamp and thoroughly
                        indignant with Lerin. Obstinate Antonia would be a quarry hard enough to
                        corner unless her suitor speedily mended his dereliction.
                    But a long time after the great campo had fallen into slumber Antonia lay in
                        the perfumed darkness of her chamber with her arms over her face. She was
                        absolutely empty of her illusions, and the warm and glowing fiction that had
                        enmeshed her since Lerin had arrived in the campo had melted like a dream.
                        But the marquesa would have been shocked to know that Antonia had not taken
                        her awakening with composure.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX
                    THE QUEEN'S SKIRMISH
                    IT was dawn but not yet daylight on the vega. Sacra Monte
                        and all his imperial brethren to the east as far as the Sierra Lucena were
                        rugged shapes of indigo swimming in night. But behind them the golden heaven
                        was full of day.
                    The barraca across the Camino Ancho had already put in an hour of labor, for
                        Doña Isabella, the early riser, must needs dress to the music of her army,
                        braced.
                    Of the forty thousand troops which Ferdinand had led into the great plain
                        before Granada a half invested the besieged city on the mountainside or
                        ranged the whole surrounding country, standing off reinforcements and
                        supplies intended for the relief of the Moorish capital. The other half lay
                        in the campo on the vega to press the siege. Here, then, in this cool
                        half-light of the coming morning, were twenty thousand swaggering blades,
                        base and nobly born, bucklered for an exceptional opportunity to parade
                        their puissance before the beloved Queen.
                    Here, numbering three to one from any other province, were the Andalusians,
                        upon whose mobile shoulders had fallen the greater weight of this long and
                        bloody war. Merry fellows they were, with sashes under their jacks, colored
                        handkerchiefs over their heads under their salets, laughter somewhere
                        forever in their systems, and a dash of Islam in their veins.
                    After them in number came the Aragonese, black-eyed stoics who felt the cause
                        for which they fought and scrutinized with suspicion the activities of even
                        their  prince, the King. Then came the
                        stalking, ceremonious, dignified Castilian, perpetually conscious of his
                        kinship to the Queen, envied by his hereditary foe the Aragonese, and mocked
                        by his fellow the Andalusian.
                    There was no uniform for the whole force. Each great castellan who sent
                        troops into the field clad them in his private color, under his individual
                        banner. This dissipated the idea of mass and separated the twenty thousand
                        into parties as many and diverse as there were great lords in the campo.
                    The Queen had yielded to a long-cherished desire to look at the city soon to
                        succumb to Christian arms. Out of it had issued all romance, art, and
                        husbandry for Spain for seven hundred years. Its citadel, its palaces, and
                        its mosques had been the marvel of Europe; its richness and beauty the spur
                        to Spanish avarice and Moorish valor for seven centuries. One day of a
                        certainty the cross of Santiago would be raised above the Torre de Val, but
                        the Moors were desperate. As they felt their last and best-beloved
                        possession slipping from their grasp, they might set a torch to it and leave
                        to Isabella's eyes at the triumph only a blackened waste of ruined marble
                        and fallen groves and broken aqueducts.
                    On a hillside to the right of Granada stood a demure little village called La
                        Zubia. From the campo it looked like a Valencian orange-seller in its tinted
                        walls and its green and golden gardens. A road now seen now lost, more like
                        footprints than a beaten path, led up to the village and stopped. It seemed
                        as if this gay-colored little handmaiden to great Granada had climbed to a
                        point of vantage from which she could behold her splendid patrona and had
                        settled herself to gaze. To this situation the wonderful Alhambra and the
                        hill covered with palaces were fairly exposed.
                    It was proposed to escort the Queen to La Zubia and allow her, under the
                        protection of the picked chivalry of the twenty thousand, to gratify her
                        wish to see Granada before it fell.
                    
                    Now there was grand turmoil in the barraca. For the whole of the previous
                        night, before vicious blue fires, armorers squatted, gnomish figures
                        riveting steel and polishing metal and burnishing swords. The clank and
                        tinkle of their labor penetrated the noble quarters of the campo where the
                        cavaliers were astir before the stars turned pale above the blue crag of
                        Xoliar.
                    Harried grooms struggled along at the bits of great horses, caparisoned,
                        impatient, and threatening. Endless numbers of pages, from the service of
                        her Majesty's ladies, wriggled through the increasing crowds of soldiers and
                        knights, chaffering with each other, dodging the long arms of squires, and
                        avoiding encounters with nobles. Heralds, in kaleidoscopic tabards stiff
                        with thè embroidered allusive arms of Castile and Leon and the simple,
                        sombre device of Aragon, took their uninterrupted walk through the
                        congestion to their places. Mounted trumpeters with their shining pieces
                        mouth down on their thighs rode in pairs and quartets to the place of
                        assembly. Drummers with their instruments tapping irregularly as their
                        bearers hurried to the field protected with extended arms the taut heads
                        from the points of armor, handled lances, and rearing horses.
                    The sunrise showed an edge of fire on the dark summits of the hills and the
                        mountain tops. A little procession of padres, a semblance of order in the
                        hurry, broke a ready way for themselves as they moved from the Queen's
                        Chapel, where they had celebrated mass.
                    Now issued the ladies of her Majesty's train from the direction of the
                        chapel. With their inimitable Spanish step they passed in groups swiftly to
                        their quarters and disappeared.
                    Everywhere now was mounting and galloping off down to the mustering field.
                        Where there had been congestion was now headlong departure. The brightening
                        daylight was filled with hoofs and jingling armor and flying housings.
                    "Busk thee, Roderick," the Señor de Villagarcia  called, pulling up his black charger before the tent of Roderick de
                        Mendoza. "This day we shed our blood."
                    "Without fail?" the tenor voice of the corpulent Mendoza, with something
                        anxious in the question issued from the depths of the tent.
                    "Verdad! The Marques de Cadiz is the master of ceremonies, and you know what
                        that means."
                    "No, but in my hearing," Mendoza cried after Villa-garcia, who had begun to
                        move up to the tent where Beltran Ponce de Leon had set up his bachelor
                        quarters, "the Queen instructed the marques to avoid bloodshed."
                    "You will see ere the day is older!"
                    "Santa Maria!" came fervently from the fat knight's tent.
                    Don Beltran Ponce de Leon emerged from his own quarters before which his
                        squire held a lance and a bay destrier by the bridle. Young Ponce caught
                        Mendoza's plaint.
                    "Marry! What aileth the fatted calf?" he inquired, setting foot in his
                        stirrup.
                    "This riding of the Queen means incontinently a battle, and Roderick is loath
                        to bestir himself on a hot day."
                    "Battle it is," declared Beltran. "My lord uncle had nothing to say to any
                        one this morning. Well, I am pleased. Let me see, now, if one who has been a
                        soldier ever forgets."
                    Villagarcia surveyed his cousin from the gray plume on his morion to the red
                        gleam of his golden spurs. Even in his casing of steel he was not to be
                        imaged as a warrior adding weight to the collision of his lance and might to
                        the down-swing of his broadsword.
                    "Bear a light hand," Villagarcia said seriously as they moved off
                        together.
                    Up the slope of the Camino Estrecho came an increasing roar of acclaim, and
                        out of the dust of their own horses' heels emerged the idols of the army,
                        Garcilaso de la Vega and Hernando Perez del Pulgar. At their  tent Hernando waved his hand at his brother
                        in arms and, dismounting, disappeared within their quarters. Between
                        prolonged "vivas," Garcilaso continued on toward the Camino Ancho.
                    "They separate," Villagarcia commented.
                    "Hernando wears a bandage on his leg. He is unfit for a fight to-day,"
                        Beltran explained.
                    Notably cased in light armor, in contrast to the complete harness of the
                        knights about him, Garcilaso greeted Beltran with a gentle smile covering a
                        complete and critical inspection of the new knight's equipment. Roderick de
                        Mendoza, mounted upon a roan charger that showed every rib and a ring of
                        white all about a crazy eye, pranced up to the trio. So, abreast, the
                        quartet moved on toward the mustering field.
                    They passed and saluted the half-hundred ladies in waiting, all mounted on
                        mules. Near the rear of the gorgeous, bell-tinkling, velvet-draped cavalcade
                        were the four knightly maids.
                    As one and under distinct and personal impulse, the quartet of young knights
                        broke rank and dropped one behind the other.
                    Francesca Ponce de Leon ever so slightly reined in her palfrey and said a
                        merry farewell to the smiling Villagarcia, though never a sound passed her
                        red lips. Leonor's lambent eyes candidly asked Roderick to take care of
                        himself. Antonia de Aragon caught an expressive smile from Don Beltran Ponce
                        de Leon that, to her intense surprise, brought a flame of color to her
                        cheeks.
                    "If you are captured now, fair sir," she said to herself, fanning her color
                        down, "Heaven send a maid to dig you out again!"
                    The golden damsel, however, had her attention already attracted. Lerin's big
                        gray Fleming, side-stepping under the conde's rowel, caught her eye, and Don
                        Garcilaso passed the knightly maids last and without a greeting from
                        her.
                    Lerin, on his angry, restless beast, was at Antonia's side.
                    
                    "On safe occasions," he was saying to some one, while he indicated Ponce de
                        Leon with a motion of his head, "the new engineer is to be a soldier-is it
                        not so?"
                    On safe occasions! Antonia was indignant. The pefils through which Beltran
                        Ponce de Leon had passed were well enough known to mark such a reference to
                        him as unfair.
                    "Sir," some one made answer, and Antonia knew by the measured old voice, so
                        overlaid with velvet, so underlaid with iron, that it was Cardinal Mendoza
                        who was speaking, "I have borne arms long enough to know that this is no
                        safe occasion."
                    "Say you so, indeed?" the conde returned. "Is our lady, the Queen, then
                        prepared for battle?"
                    "Sir, our lady does not suspect in the least what must transpire because of
                        her wish to behold this infidel city. But when our good marques draws up his
                        force out there in the vega, less than three kilometres from the gates of
                        Granada, he will have flung his gage. Let him get out of that position
                        without an engagement if he can."
                    "My faith," said Lerin, "then the resurrected one hath smelt bloodshed from
                        afar!"
                    Antonia looked Lerin over without saluting him. He smiled at her, and turned
                        his attention again to the passing four whose advance was the focus-point of
                        many comments.
                    "Your Spaniard," Lerin continued to the cardinal, "fills me with wonder. It
                        would interest me, indeed, to see this race of middle-sized men go up
                        against the hulking English in battle. Behold this same young Ponce;
                        likewise this feather-heeled young Garcilaso. Should they attempt to cleave
                        a foe to his teeth, they would incontinently fling their feet over their
                        heads."
                    "Your Spaniard," returned the cardinal warmly, "makes up in agility what the
                        Saxon or the Frank excels him in strength. To-day, my son, keep your eye
                        about you. The Moor is no bad second to the nation you  name; peradventure you may be made to see how it is done."
                    Lerin, enjoying the cardinal's warmth, shot a glance of amusement at Antonia
                        as a skilful aside. But it was the golden damsel to whom he spoke.
                    "Is my lady possessed of herself?" he asked softly.
                    The golden damsel looked down modestly and opined that her heart misgave
                        her.
                    "But," she added, "battle must be a dread sight between nations of such
                        magnificent men."
                    He assured her that it was his dearest wish that her eyes might never be
                        troubled by such a spectacle.
                    Doña Marta Valdes y Castellar, passing to her place among the ladies of the
                        Queen, heard this interchange of mutual interest, and the look of
                        tranquillity that suddenly passed over her beautiful face as she turned an
                        examining gaze upon Antonia's stoical countenance had not hitherto been
                        usual to the mother of little José Valdes.
                    They were following the King and the Queen, the Infante Juan and the Infanta
                        Juanna and the ambassadors, though quite near to the end of the party.
                        Around them pranced the royal guard, a double circle of titled young
                        cavaliers. Within that sheltering ring rode a radiant company of pages,
                        secretaries, officers, and priests; that in turn enclosed gentlemen in
                        waiting, ladies in waiting, the maids of honor; and in the heart of it all
                        were their Majesties, the King and the Queen, and the royal children.
                    Down the wide road they passed, the great, slowly waving, stately banner of
                        the realm going on before. Under it as it blew were the tossing of plumes,
                        the flutter of silken scarfs, the shimmer of velvets and satins and silks,
                        the glittering of jewels, and the flash of gold and silver and fine
                        steel.
                    Through the clatter and ring of saluting sentries at the gates they passed
                        out upon the vega, on to their place between the steel-clad cavalry of the
                        Marques de Cadiz and the bristling spears and long bows of the Marques  de Villena's foot, where the platoons of
                        heralds and the platoons of drummers and the platoons of trumpeters, all
                        gorgeously liveried, swung into place a head of them; and the majestic army
                        before and behind set in motion to a tremendous burst of harmony.
                    "Voilà!" exclaimed Lerin. "I am excited! I should like a pageant of this kind
                        all for myself. I have changed mine ambitions. Methinks I will be a
                        king."
                    "If you are tired of conflict," said Antonia, "you have chosen no ambition to
                        give you rest."
                    "Tired only for a time," he returned. "I must pause now and then to divert
                        myself with works of peace-and love. The man who is never anything but a
                        warrior becomes a wild beast in time, or so mellowed by sympathy and sick of
                        blood that he loses the iron in him wholly. Men must nurse their
                        temperaments against immoderation of any sort. I find the campo overrun with
                        men who have allowed their dispositions to go to seed. There is your
                        converted Jew, Santangel, whose misfortunes of family have set him
                        perpetually to grinding his teeth. There is that amiable spider, Calcena,
                        who hath never been anything but a villain, and so can be nothing else. And
                        there is Colon, who has allowed his visions to beggar him, a dream to kill
                        every real thing in his life. Depend upon it, sweet lady, if Lerin longs to
                        be a king he will set apart a time each day to see that he longs for
                        something else, so that his nature may not become one-sided. For instance,"
                        he said, with a sudden liveliness entering his tone, and pulling his horse
                        close to her, "having set my heart upon Antonia, I must step aside to think
                        now and then of ambition lest I become weak-headed with infatuation."
                    "Oh, saints!" she said, nevertheless unable to suppress a smile, "I am an
                        antidote for his ambitions and his ambitions are an antidote for me! Well,
                        it is good to be useful."
                    "Exactly," he agreed. "I do not see that a woman need be anything else or
                        reach a higher value. The  woman who is
                        beautiful and good and useful hath a wide enough field for labor. You shall
                        be the keeper of my stronghold, captain of my garrison, sergeant of my
                        supplies, my surgeon, my bailiff—"
                    "Your confessor and your-" she put in slyly.
                    "No, by the mass!" he interrupted. "When the lady becomes priest the knight
                        leaves home. I have no chaplain," he added reflectively. "I have no chapel.
                        It is a mossy ruin. It shall be rebuilt. Oh," he went on, with that reviving
                        air that marked his voice whenever a new thought struck him, "it shall be a
                        new feudo! Generations of swifts have built in my chimneys; they shall be
                        dislodged. Bushes have grown up in the road and in the moat; they shall be
                        burnt. The battlements are as irregular as an old woman's teeth. Ha! let me
                        get back to my castle-there shall be other laborers than rats in the armory,
                        other swift things than bats in the stables. And we shall have a pageant or
                        two ourselves. Ay, by the mass! We shall have a fanfare that may be heard
                        all the way to Aragon."
                    Antonia was disarmed. There was something charming in his persistent
                        incorporation of her in his schemes; something so naïve in his frank
                        laughter over his penniless state and his cheerful anticipation of all that
                        her fortune would do for him; something so captivating in his talk
                        concentrated upon her and himself in spite of the impressive environment;
                        merry, boyish, affectionate, comrade-like-all of that, in fact, that compose
                        perfect love-making. Lerin, watching her vigilantly, saw the cloud disperse,
                        the sunshiny smile play about her lips, the soft color mount her cheeks, and
                        the long lashes droop shyly over her gray eyes.
                    The ground began to rise; the hills were under their horses' feet. The
                        thunder of cavalry far ahead of them had drifted off. She looked to see the
                        great, shining body of horse, rank on rank, wheel under its streaming
                        pennons, many-colored in the sun, out from the foot of the mountains and
                        away steadily under the beetling  scrutiny of
                        Granada's one thousand and thirty watch-towers and twelve open and sentried
                        gates.
                    But the royal party continued to mount the fragmentary road that led to
                        little La Zubia. Ahead, the heralds, the drummers, the trumpeters, the
                        hundred pages, the royal guard, the gentlemen in waiting, the King, the
                        Queen, the ladies in waiting, the princess, the prince, the ambassadors, the
                        knightly maids, and the company of clerics mounted above those who rode
                        behind, and over the gorgeous train swept ever the shivering, echoing,
                        mellow music thrown back by the close-crowding heights. La Zubia received
                        them line by line.
                    Thunder of hoofs and the earth-shaking tread of infantry passed around the
                        little hamlet, and the foot and horse of the Marques de Villena that formed
                        the rearguard moved in dust and the flash of arms up the hill and, wheeling,
                        came to rest above the little hamlet, a poised weapon ready to fall like a
                        thunderbolt for the protection of the beloved Queen.
                    Leaning so that his green plume waved a filmy shadow across her cheek, Lerin
                        went on:
                    "I can see the vassals-my tenantry-thick along the roads to catch the first
                        glimpse of her when I bring her home. Benefactress and paragon, helpmeet to
                        their poor lord and comforter of their own barren lives! How they will watch
                        for the dust down the weedy roads, forecasting her height and her visage,
                        her manner and her carriage! They will guess her to be haughty, because she
                        is a Spaniard; severe, because she is rich and her lord is penniless;
                        beautiful, ay, indeed, because she must be! But wait till the day! How happy
                        a day for them! Best largess that Lerin can give them for their
                        loyalty-sweet, gracious, beautiful, tender, wise, and ah, how loving!
                        Loving! Will she be that, Antonia?" he asked suddenly in a scarcely audible
                        voice.
                    So, embedded in safety and hedged in front and rear with strength, the King
                        and the Queen had alighted at the house in La Zubia selected as affording
                        the best view  of the Alhambra and the wealthy
                        portion of the city. The royal body-guard surrounded the building and the
                        royal pair, their titled attendants, and the high churchmen mounted to the
                        roof.
                    Lerin put up his hands and lifted Antonia down. His arms lingered before they
                        released their hold. She made no answer to him nor lifted her eyes, but she
                        did not withdraw her hand when he took it as, together, they climbed the
                        steep, dark, narrow stairs and emerged into the golden sun and the free
                        winds upon the flat top of the Moorish house.
                    It is not written that the Queen's view of the city was careful or
                        care-free.
                    The first glimpse that she had of the wide, flat, yellow vega between her and
                        the city was a solid mass of Christian cavalry planted ten thousand strong.
                        Before them and veiling the Spanish force in a cloud of dust from the heels
                        of their horses were twice as many antic Moors, marvellously arrayed in
                        mail, embroidery, and flying tassels. Over the ranks of the cavaliers at
                        times drifted gadfly flights of Moorish arrows. Cries and laughter of the
                        jeering infidels came afar to the Queen's ears. Something in the stolid pose
                        of the Christian phalanx bespoke fulminating wrath under the cross of
                        Santiago.
                    Then about the great, wide-open gates of the besieged city, where an immense
                        concourse of citizens had gathered to watch the approach of the Christians,
                        there arose a fresh roar of shouts, loud yells of forced laughter, and
                        applause not so much for the performance as for the benefit of the
                        audience.
                    They on the housetop in La Zubia saw emerge from the mob that ventured
                        without the gates a gigantic Moor locked in complete armor and armed for
                        mortal combat. His mail was black, his horsemanship the most perfect. He
                        advanced steadily, putting his mount through every pace, while the shouts of
                        the rabble followed him into the field.
                    "Yarfe," murmured the company on the housetops. "Yarfe, the Moorish
                        champion!"
                    
                    "The Moor who escaped you on the night of your arrival," Antonia whispered to
                        the conde.
                    "I had but one lance," he responded.
                    Suddenly a tremendous shout of rage burst from the Spanish troops on the
                        plain. Almost instantly a knight was seen to detach himself from the lines
                        and come like a missile shot from a longbow toward the hamlet of La
                        Zubia.
                    By the streaming of his long black plumes tipped with scarlet he was known to
                        be Garcilaso de la Vega before he could be identified otherwise.
                    Presently he was heard in the street below demanding admittance to the
                        presence of the King.
                    The whole company on the housetop stirred with expectancy. When the hero of
                        the army came thus headlong to consult the monarch anything was to be
                        expected.
                    In a moment he came bounding, in the music of his jingling armor, up the
                        stairs to the roof. The courtiers made way for him, and he flung himself
                        before Ferdinand.
                    "I pray thee, my liege, remove thy command against personal combat in my
                        favor," he asked grimly.
                    "How now, Don Garcilaso," the King said sternly. "You know my reasons against
                        it."
                    "Sire, an insult to Our Lady is being enacted before thy vassals and in the
                        eye of God this instant. And I, Garcilaso, and Hernando Perez del Pulgar are
                        answerable for it. Naught but bloodshed can atone for it. Remove thy
                        command, I pray thee, and let me avenge it."
                    "What is it?" the King asked. "What goes forward yonder?"
                    "Shame to me to confess it, sire! Hernando's prank in] posting the 'Ave' on
                        the mosque hath recoiled upon him to the humiliation of the Virgin. Yon
                        caparisoned Moor drags the billet in the dust, tied to the tail of his
                        horse!"
                    A horrified murmur ran over the noble company.
                    
                    "But why do you come, sir?" Ferdinand demanded. "It was Hernando's work.
                        Where is he?"
                    "Left wounded at the campo," Garcilaso replied bluntly. "It is inevitably my
                        duty."
                    "Yon Moor is Yarfe," the King said, running his eye over Garcilaso's youthful
                        figure and light armament. "You know his prowess."
                    "Self-murder," Lerin said in an aside to Antonia. "There is not the Moor's
                        equal in the Spanish army."
                    "Reflect, Garcilaso," others began to say. "That is Yarfe, who hath never
                        failed to make his kill!"
                    Over Garcilaso's saintly face ran a shade; into his eyes crept a look that
                        halted Ferdinand suddenly with his refusal unsaid.
                    "My liege will not join himself to these who are the first to tell Garcilaso
                        that he cannot!" the hero said tensely.
                    The turn in the knight's manner cautioned the King. Insubordination in so
                        reckless and so valuable a cavalier as Garcilaso was not to be invited by a
                        refusal of his plea.
                    "Go, cavalier," the King said reluctantly, "and God help you!"
                    Before the unready permission was finished Garcilaso had flung his thanks and
                        galloped away in the vega again.
                    It was a minute and far-removed pantomime on the plain for those who stood on
                        the housetop when the duel between the Christian cavalier and the Moorish
                        champion was enacted before the lines of the Spanish and the Moors-the pose
                        of Garcilaso at his challenge; the long, galloping start of their horses
                        with the crests of the antagonists lowered and their lances couched; the
                        shock of the encounter; the wide, graceful careen of the chargers at the
                        recover; the rise and fall of their sword-arms at the hand-to-hand combat;
                        the attempts to unhorse each other by wrestling. But even at that great
                        distance the difference in size, the disparity of reach, and the comparison
                        of armament, inferior in the Christian's 
                        case, forecasted ominously the outcome of so unequal a battle. Precedence
                        was forgotten on the housetop. Royalty, clergy, and nobility rubbed
                        shoulders and pressed each other in their eagerness to behold every
                        movement.
                    But the golden damsel went away to the opposite parapet and looked down into
                        the peaceful, sunny gardens of La Zubia. No one saw that her teeth were set
                        hard and her hands were wrung about each other in an agony of suspense and
                        suffering.
                    Finally, the gigantic Moor was seen to bear down upon his slight antagonist,
                        who vainly tried to avoid him and who at last disappeared in a sheer smother
                        of weight in a general struggle of arms and limbs upon the yellow surface of
                        the plain.
                    Suffering, the watchers saw the tragedy of the coup de grâce about to be
                        administered to the prostrate and half-hidden Garcilaso. Then, to the
                        amazement of the onlooking Moors and the delight of the Christians, the Moor
                        was seen to pause, with his dagger hand upthrown, sway once, and topple over
                        on the sand.
                    Garcilaso had thrown off the cumbrous corpse and regained his feet before the
                        spectators realized that the battle had ended. Amid a petrified silence he
                        walked a little uncertainly over to the Moor's horse, detached the abused
                        billet, put it on the point of his sword, remounted, and came careening back
                        to his command. But before he had ridden twenty paces the Christian army
                        awoke. Ten thousand hoarse voices on the plain, ten thousand hoarse voices
                        from the hilltop back of La Zubia, met him like a vast wave and ingulfed him
                        in a diapason of acclaim.
                    The King, returning to himself, looked around over his courtiers and smiled.
                        The Queen, restraining her tears by sheer effort, clasped her hands and
                        thanked God aloud. The cardinal, with triumph on his fine old face, looked
                        over at Lerin, who reached his side in two steps.
                    
                    "Your eminence has shown me a very happy example of what is done, but tell me
                        how he did it," he asked.
                    "The Moor," replied the cardinal, "did exactly what men of your strength
                        often do in combat with a weaker man. He trusted too much to his superior
                        size and armament and overlooked his antagonist's watchfulness. You saw the
                        infidel's arm up thrown, his side exposed. In that weight of steel his hand
                        could not move as speedily as Garcilaso's. The Christian used his dagger in
                        that moment lost."
                    "Vi et armis' no more," said Lerin thoughtfully as he resumed his place by
                        Antonia.
                    Up to this moment the distinguished company in La Zubia had been prettily
                        diverted by the training of their troops and the valor of their knights in
                        personal combat, a defense of the Virgin, and the overthrow of a powerful
                        and insolent Moor.
                    Now, however, ensued a different music.
                    The Moorish commander, incensed at the death of his champion, was seen racing
                        along the front of his cavalry, his arms upthrown, his draperies flying. As
                        if some incantation had been uttered over their heads, his passage threw his
                        troops into a ferment of excitement. Curiously watching, the company on the
                        housetop saw the ranks of the Moors open, and out of the breach dashed
                        cannon drawn by madly driven horses whose riders never ceased to ply the
                        lash nor to shout.
                    In two breaths the ordnance had been thrown into position, and the gunners
                        opened fire upon the Christians, held immobile and defenseless by the
                        Queen's restraining order.
                    But the bottled rebellion of the gallant Marques de Cadiz had accumulated
                        dynamic force from being pent so long. He caught, at the necessity for
                        self-defense, an excuse to break the Queen's command, and hurled the
                        Christians with impetuous fury upon the Moslem forces.
                    On the housetop there was Ferdinand, who knew exactly all that battle meant;
                        there was the Queen, who  was keenly aware
                        that her own curiosity had precipitated this affray; there were churchmen
                        burdened with the welfare of men's souls who were about to die, as well as
                        with the supremacy of the cross in Spain; there were nobles high in office,
                        who understood what might follow a serious reverse in the fortunes of war.
                        These, each and all, with the most earnest intent, dropped to their knees
                        and began to pray for the success of the Christian arms.
                    Out on the level vega the great, raving vortex of commingled Moors and
                        Christians wheeled back and forward, now seen, now wholly obscured under a
                        cloud of smoke and dust that was riven every instant by the crash of
                        ordnance and jets of flame.
                    Upon one side, well to the rear of the spectacle, Garcilaso de la Vega, in
                        the hands of a squire and a page who worked furiously, was seen to prepare,
                        rearm, remount, and, with a long, galloping start, throw himself into the
                        midst of the struggle and disappear under a veritable avalanche of
                        antagonists.
                    Most of the ladies of her Majesty's train had never viewed a battle at such
                        perilously close quarters, and the sight of the conflict, as well as its
                        effect upon the monarchs and the high dignitaries of the realm, was most
                        distressing. Some fled down into the house; others covered eyes and ears to
                        shut out the sight and the sound of the battle.
                    But the golden damsel, who had endured the ordeal of the personal combat
                        between the Moor and Don Garcilaso, felt the strain of a second suspense
                        more than she could bear when she saw the hero fling himself into conflict
                        once more. She made a little moan, took two or three sidewise steps, and
                        settled down in a heap at Lerin's feet.
                    Murmuring a compassionate word, the 'conde lifted her in his arms, made
                        excuse to Antonia with a questioning uplift of his chin, and carried the
                        golden damsel below into the dusk of the interior.
                    
                    In an incredibly short time the whirl on the vega slackened and became
                        headlong flight and headlong pursuit toward the gates of the city. The
                        battle was over. The concentrated racket separated and floated away. A
                        comparative silence fell.
                    Then the slowly ascending curtain of smoke and dust revealed a horrifying
                        climax to the anxious watchers on the housetop in La Zubia.
                    The vega was black with dead and wounded, single, in groups, and in piles.
                        Everywhere soldiers who were not stripping the fallen of their armor bent
                        intently over prostrate comrades. Hundreds of riderless horses galloped
                        about, between, and over the wounded. Priests who seemed to have sprung up
                        from the earth were everywhere holding crucifixes before the dying or
                        helping the litter-bearers gather up the wounded.
                    Presently the Marques de Cadiz came galloping up the winding road to La
                        Zubia, where in the street below he removed his helmet and cried up his
                        assurances and his apologies to the Queen, whose command he had been
                        compelled to break.
                    But when the ladies in waiting, hanging over the parapets of the house, began
                        to ask him for news of this or that loved one, he smiled, waved both his
                        hands, and shook his dusty head.
                    So, in sympathy for their anxiety, the Queen ordered a quick return to the
                        campo, where detailed information could be had at once.
                    At the foot of the stair that led to the roof, Lerin emerged from the shadowy
                        end of the single whitewashed chamber and stood at Antonia's side.
                    "Doña Sancha will be unable to ride her mule back to the camp," he said.
                        "Will you take her place beside the infanta until I can put her in the care
                        of some one else?"
                    Don Diego de Cordova, captain of the royal pages, who preceded Antonia a
                        step, turned at this and said:
                    "Let me take Doña Sancha on my horse, my lord."
                    
                    But Lerin had turned at Antonia's pleasant and ready consent and, as if he
                        had not heard Don Diego's offer, went back into the shadow of the
                        chamber.
                    The gallant party reformed, the great army on the hillside came down, the
                        battered ten thousand of the Marques de Cadiz from the vega ranged into
                        shape, the trumpets and the drums took up their martial music, and the
                        Queen, all her desire to look upon Granada quenched, turned her face toward
                        the campo again.
                    On one side of Antonia, who had taken her place beside the infanta again, was
                        Francesca Ponce de Leon; on the other was Leonor de la Cerda, both trembling
                        with fear and praying the same prayer.
                    "Bootless," said Antonia to herself, "for maids to love men like that. It is
                        their lords' business to seek death and escape it narrowly, and the poor
                        wives will spend their lives wringing their hands."
                    Near the fortifications the royal party halted, the army came to a stand, and
                        every man uncovered while the wounded entered the gate of the campo
                        first.
                    Most of them proceeded afoot, battered, dusty, dishevelled, and bleeding.
                        Others went by on their horses, which soldiers led; and so passed Garcilaso
                        de la Vega, embedded in a mob of wounded fighting men who wasted their scant
                        breath cheering him as he advanced. Others passed upon litters, their blood
                        dripping upon their bearers; and thus, while the suffering knightly maids
                        watched, were borne the Señor de Villagarcia, Roderick de Mendoza, and
                        Beltran Ponce de Leon.
                    When, some time later, Antonia entered the apartment of the Marquesa de Moya,
                        the noble lady looked around from her mirror, in which she had been watching
                        her tirewoman brush the dust from her shining black hair.
                    "What is the matter?" the marquesa asked quickly.
                    "Nothing is the matter," Antonia answered in a subdued voice, while she kept
                        her back to her noble guardian.
                    "Where is Lerin?" the marquesa asked pointedly after ignoring Antonia's
                        evasion.
                    
                    "Bringing Sancha de Guzman back to the campo. She was overcome during the
                        battle."
                    "Overcome! Sancha ? Ay, I warrant she was overcome!" the marquesa
                        scoffed.
                    "She was, in good earnest," Antonia declared. "And my lord must needs bring
                        her back to the camp on his horse while I finished her day at the infanta's
                        side."
                    The marquesa snapped open her fan and waved it with vigor for a moment.
                    "These are small vexations," she said when she reached a point of sufficient
                        calmness, "doubtless as irritating to the Conde de Lerin as to you, Antonia.
                        Time will smooth it."
                    "Mother of God!" Antonia cried suddenly. "I am not irritated. I do not want
                        it smoothed."
                    The marquesa turned in her seat to look at her charge. Very long lashes like
                        Antonia's do not dry traces of tears very soon.
                    "Look at the child!" she cried. "Jealous as a hedgewren, by my soul!"
                    But Antonia, with her lip curling over the marquesa's misinterpretation of
                        her tears, went on into her own chamber and twitched the curtain angrily as
                        she passed through for want of a door to slam.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER X
                    IN THE QUEEN'S HOSPITAL
                    AT the northern edge of the campo, close to the bulwarks
                        and sentry line, there was an outcropping ledge of rock hardly as high as
                        the eaves of a low farmhouse that stood against it. In wet weather a little
                        stream ran by the door of the building. Through the summer the seep of the
                        water from springs kept a ribbon of thymy growth green and rank along its
                        insignificant meanderings. The gnarled roots of an old olive, bowed like a
                        centenarian but as vigorous as a youth, explored the extent of moisture.
                        Farther back, and set at right angles with the ledge of rock and screening
                        the western sun, a row of cypresses, remnant of the domesticity that had
                        once flourished in the spot, set the ineffable artistry of their taper
                        crowns against the sky.
                    When Ferdinand sent his pioneers, under his campbuilder the Marques de
                        Villena, to clear this spot on the northwest bank of the Xenil, three or
                        four caballeros, acting under orders that condemned every obstruction, came
                        upon these trees with their axes.
                    At the right moment one of them looked up to see none other than the marques
                        himself bearing down upon them at full gallop, his crippled right hand in
                        the air, his whole courtly figure alive with alarm.
                    "Forbear, hombres!" he said. "These trees are to shelter the Queen's
                        Hospital."
                    That was a new word to the military world. It was not ten years old. Isabella
                        may well be credited with the founding of this humane department to the
                        business of war. It afforded comfort and had saved life from Malaga to
                        Granada, and was never thereafter to be 
                        eliminated from the face of the earth where Christian nations did battle
                        with each other.
                    When the Spanish camp was pitched six tents were set within the sheltered
                        triangle made by the olive, the cypresses, and the high ledge of rock, at
                        the edge of verdure along the hidden stream and near neighbor to the
                        farmhouse, which had been whitewashed within and without and converted into
                        a chapel.
                    A corps of frailes especially trained in nursing was in charge under the
                        army's doctors, and these cared for the sick and wounded throughout the long
                        campaigns.
                    It was a cool, quiet spot, removed from the endless din of the barraca and
                        the parade of the noble quarters. Here, after the Queen's skirmish before
                        Granada, the wounded were carried, the commons to one tent, the nobles to
                        another, and were left to recuperate under the skilful tendance of the
                        patient barefoot brothers.
                    One by one the common fighting men were discharged as cured or carried out at
                        sunset and buried in the barren cementerio under a gilded cross planted in
                        the sand outside the rear wall. Among the wounded nobles occurred the same
                        happy or tragic incident, until only the Señor de Villagarcia, Roderick de
                        Mendoza, and Beltran Ponce de Leon were left.
                    At sunset after the battle the Marques de Cadiz, accompanied by Pedro
                        Gutierrez, who had been despatched by the King to inquire, came to the cool
                        spot under the cypresses.
                    Flushed and troubled and vexed, the marques demanded to know how all three of
                        the young knights had come to be so grievously wounded.
                    "It was Garcilaso," Villagarcia declared from his pallet. "After he had
                        killed Yarfe he should never have returned to the field and entered the
                        battle. He should have known that every black infidel would feel himself
                        especially appointed to avenge the death of the Moorish champion. Beltran
                        stood by him and covered his retreat when Garcilaso finally concluded to
                        fly. And  we came into the state which you
                        behold, good my lord, extricating your nephew from the thick of Moors bent
                        on killing him for saving Garcilaso."
                    "I saw; I saw," said the marques. "I knew that death was doing in that
                        quarter."
                    "What cheer!" Beltran broke in from his pallet. "It was a gallant fight. I
                        have come out of it equipped with a weapon that will make me as strong as
                        the strongest."
                    The marques moved over to Beltran's side and knelt stiffly in the falling
                        dusk to see the face of the young man who lay at full length on his
                        back.
                    They had all fallen at his side, these redoubtable Ponces, and here, now, in
                        apparent extremity, was the very last of two generations that had gone forth
                        at his, their suzerain's, call to do battle with the Moor.
                    They had been a delicate type of men, graceful, slender, and light. His own
                        robust body had been the hardiest of them all. Now that this young survivor,
                        so rudely served throughout the whole length of the war, was finally to be
                        brought low, the marques felt besides his grief a sense of culpability.
                        Heaven had returned to him an heir of his own line to become at once the
                        object of all the paternal love in his starved heart, and he felt that he
                        might have spared the young man in all honor.
                    "There should be," he thought in his affliction, "something for such as you
                        besides this or the church."
                    But he said to his nephew: "The physician says that you are grievously
                        wounded."
                    "Not so grievously as importantly," Beltran answered. "The right half of my
                        corselet was penetrated. It will be a fine thing if I can never handle a
                        sword again!"
                    The marques shook his head. There was no difference in his mind between death
                        and total disability.
                    "See that you lie patiently," he charged the young man. "If you survive the
                        fever I have no fear for your soundness."
                    
                    "Very good," said Beltran with a smile. "If I survive the fever!"
                    As the marques stood up he took his nephew's hand and pressed it. Beltran
                        felt the tremor in the grip and looked up surprised.
                    "But I shall survive," he said very quickly. "It is my part to be pushed into
                        close places, and come out scathless. This instance was a mishap not to be
                        foreseen. Good brother," he said to the fraile hovering about his pallet,
                        "fetch me the bird-spit that I took from a Moor."
                    The barefooted brother went into a recess in the big tent and returned with a
                        sword several inches longer than the familiar broadsword, less than two
                        fingers in breadth, two-edged, protected with a simple guard, thin as a
                        palette-knife, and pointed to an exceptional fineness. Beltran weakly
                        reached up his left hand, took it from the salver upon which the fraile bore
                        it, and, summoning strength, shook it from the hilt. The whole length
                        flickered across a wide arc with dainty flexibility.
                    The other two wounded knights, the marques, and the King's messenger looked
                        at the fragile blade with mingled surprise and contempt.
                    "What imbecile went into battle with such a bodkin as that?" the marques
                        demanded.
                    "That," said Beltran, laying down the blade which he could hold no longer,
                        "is the dainty thing that did the business. The infidel who handled that
                        pierced the lacing of my corselet and laid me here."
                    "But you captured it, nevertheless," declared the marques.
                    "Because," said Beltran, "the Moor was not practised with it. A man skilled
                        with such a blade—let be! I am too tired to talk, but be sure,
                        gentles, I have shown you the end of the broadsword."
                    Young Pedro, knitting his severe brows, studied the slender weapon as it lay
                        on the floor.
                    "That is an irregular weapon," he declared; "that  is no lawful blade for a Christian to carry into combat."
                    "Oh, Pedro," said Beltran, smiling with his eyes closed,
                    "I had meant to make it my weapon for all time, but—"
                    He did not finish; it seemed that he lay very flat on his pallet. The marques
                        watched him wistfully for a time, and then his shrewd brown eye stole over
                        to the captured sword. It was like the young knight, slender, graceful,
                        delicate—but effective. He could not see the reason, but a hope
                        stirred in him.
                    "Mend, Beltran," he said in a low voice. "I would see this sword tested."
                    Beltran, beyond answer, made a slight motion with his hand. Then the marques
                        and the King's messenger went their way, and after the marques came the
                        fever, and after the fever the weakness, and after the weakness the long
                        period of mending and the grilling idleness that hurts the active more than
                        the wound.
                    The hospital emptied of all but the three friends. They had but a single
                        diversion from the company of each other. That was the procession of the
                        Queen's women at the angelus and to mass.
                    Before the first tinkle of the little bell that surmounted the farmhouse and
                        sent a flock of pigeons with whistling wings off the ledge of rock, the aunt
                        of Beltran, the mother of Villagarcia, and the cardinal, whose kinship to
                        Roderick de Mendoza was never confessed, would come to visit the young
                        knights and ask them how they did. And after the bell had tinkled and the
                        aunt and the mother and the cardinal had departed, the young knights had the
                        day's best entertainment for themselves.
                    The Queen passed, her ladies, the duquesas, the marquesas, the condesas, and,
                        after them, the demurely attended maids of honor and among them the four
                        knightly maids.
                    Francesca Ponce de Leon was an Andaluz and so the merriest of the four. She
                        came first. At the exact moment  when her
                        demure passage brought her opposite the opening of the big tent, through
                        which Villagarcia was visible, she would turn her head in the shelter of her
                        fan, so that only her lover saw what passed between them. And after she had
                        vanished Leonor de la Cerda would appear to look a tragic inquiry at the
                        expectant Roderick. Next, and wholly unconscious that knights were near, the
                        golden damsel would go by. Last, with her face straight ahead as if manful
                        effort kept it so, would come Antonia de Aragon.
                    "Now, what maketh the lady," Villagarcia said one evening after Antonia had
                        moved thus by the open entrance of the hospital. "If she wishes to look, let
                        her look, in God's name. But, marry, gentles, which one of us is it whom she
                        would but will not look at?"
                    He inspected Roderick, who returned the inspection. Then both turned to
                        Beltran. He usually sat facing the opening of the tent, half reclining in a
                        canvas chair, but apparently unaware of anything that passed. Villagarcia
                        and Roderick looked again at each other.
                    "Ponce!" said Mendoza suddenly.
                    Beltran lifted his head.
                    "Why does Doña Antonia refuse to look into the hospital?" Roderick
                        demanded.
                    "Why do you expect me to know?" Beltran asked.
                    "Because, since it is upon neither mine nor Villagarcia's account, you are
                        the only one left whom we can suspect," Roderick explained.
                    "Imbecile," said Beltran comfortably, and turned again to his scroll.
                    But Roderick and Villagarcia pursued each his own surmise until it reached a
                        conclusion. Mendoza hitched his chair closer to the señor's.
                    "I am willing to call it a simple coincidence," he said in an undertone, "but
                        have you heard that Doña Antonia is avoiding Lerin?"
                    "Simple coincidents are as like to show your fact as real evidence," observed
                        Villagarcia with decision. "But,  adding
                        testimony of a spirited inquiry that he made about the lady the day he was
                        rescued from the ruin to the fact that she is disinterested in Lerin and
                        maintains a bad show of indifference when passing this place, the
                        coincidence becomes proof. I have heard the rumor, brother, and I believe we
                        have discovered the cause."
                    "Cast me a look at him," Villagarcia continued after a pause spent in
                        furtively studying Beltran. "He is slight; he is red-haired; he tilts like a
                        housemaid. But damsels will jilt the like of Lerin for him; the marques
                        means to clothe him with the title, to .my loss, and I, by the mass!
                        affected by the same enchantment—I mean to let him !"
                    "It's luck!" Roderick declared.
                    "It's not," Villagarcia declared. "Inside he is bigger than his outside.
                        There is nothing in looks. Keep your eye on him!"
                    "Whatever it is, he is dangerous," Mendoza averred, having Lerin's rumored
                        discomfiture in mind. "It was once planned to wed him to Leonor."
                    And upon the heels of that electrifying thought followed the united
                        resolution of the two knights to wed at once.
                    So the month ran on to a Sabbath preceding the departure of Roderick and
                        Villagarcia from the hospital to their homes, pursuant to the plan to marry
                        in time.
                    It was, unusual for Granada at that time of year, a clouded day.
                    Villagarcia sat, as was his wont, near to the entrance of the tent and looked
                        down the crooked strip of green that soon lost itself in the sand of the
                        campo.
                    "Cometh Garcilaso de la Vega," he announced, "and, of a necessity,
                        Pulgar."
                    Beltran threw away his manuscript at this and a fraile picked it up and put
                        it away in a pigeon-holed case against the tent wall.
                    Garcilaso and Hernando of late had not been frequent visitors to the
                        hospital. Ponce had a dim, imperfect  vision
                        of Garcilaso's face above him when his fever was at the highest. He had
                        fallen into a black and threatening stupor and roused from it to see the
                        face still there, somehow like the painting of a saint hung in the air over
                        his pallet. Many times it was all that penetrated the oblivion into which he
                        sank. And, finally, when he emerged into intelligent existence once more he
                        had not asked about that imperfect vision. He knew without the telling that
                        Garcilaso had kept a constant vigil over him throughout the crisis of his
                        illness.
                    "They are followed by a mitigation," added Roderick. "Cometh Quintanilla and
                        Colon."
                    "Good," said Villagarcia. "Now let us see whether a sage or a featherhead can
                        get the greater audience among us."
                    "It is no fair test," said Beltran. "A featherhead makes the greater part of
                        his own audience."
                    "Who speaks of featherheads?" asked Hernando, putting his middle-aged face
                        into the opening of the tent.
                    Garcilaso pressed past the seats of the three knights and threw himself down
                        on Beltran's pallet.
                    "It is all pretense, this disability," he said. "From these cool, soft
                        couches they can see the olive-leaves dance at noon upon the canvas and the
                        knightly maids go to mass at sunrise and vespers at even. The padres bring
                        them grapes and madrigal and the King asks about them every day."
                    Hernando leaned against the centre pole of the tent. He might have sat, but
                        your true Spaniard knows how to rest upon his feet.
                    "It is sweet to do nothing," he observed. "We shall all come to it. As the
                        race decays, sleeping faults come to the surface. Dying power's first sign
                        is indolence. Here be three decadent cavaliers."
                    "The sunset of the house of Ponce," Garcilaso sighed. "The passing of the
                        Mendoza glory so newly blown."
                    "'Their banners moulder on the walls, their spears with rust are red,'"
                        quoted Hernando.
                    
                    "Great Persia's fall," said Garcilaso, "trod upon the heels of her
                        effeminacy."
                    "Children," said Beltran, "you are as little and noisy as frogs by night in
                        the marshes of Andalusia. Be still. It is near dawn—on the other
                        side of the world."
                    Quintanilla stepped through the opening of the tent and Cristobal Colon,
                        inclining his head to pass through, followed him.
                    Garcilaso noted the newcomers and understood Beltran's last remark.
                    "Ciertamente," he observed with a dulcet laugh, quite low and inaudible to
                        any but his brother in arms, " they will be having a sunrise about this hour
                        in Colon's little personal hemisphere."
                    Quintanilla, without asking after the health of the trio of knights, looked
                        them over one by one, saying nothing, smiling a little, and allowing them to
                        observe their scrutiny.
                    "Son Beltran, even with the advantage of a redhaired man's flush, you are the
                        palest of the three," he observed finally.
                    "That, good gossip," said Villagarcia, "is yet another of a red-haired man's
                        disadvantages. Sick, he is ghastly; well, apoplectic. Commend me to your
                        swart complexion. It is not so pretty, but it is constant, by the mass!"
                    "Si, signor," said the Genoese in his mellow Italian intonation. "It is well
                        said. Disadvantage! I was a red-haired man once."
                    Beltran looked at the leonine head covered with silvery, shining locks.
                    "What alchemy, señor, turns red hair to such silver?" he asked gently.
                    "Alchemy!" the Genoese repeated. "An ichor, cavaliere. Bitterness, gall,
                        want, humiliation, hopes starved! Verily, an ichor—"
                    "Is it, in truth, near daytime at this hour on the  other side of the world?" Garcilaso asked with childish
                        simplicity.
                    The Genoese shot a sidelong glance at Garcilaso and answered with the coldest
                        dignity:
                    "It is, young man."
                    "What is on the other side of the world?" Hernando asked in turn.
                    Beltran saw that it was time to interfere between the graceless knights and
                        the Genoese.
                    "Señor Colon," he put in, "we Spaniards love to go adventuring in our minds.
                        We love it better than anything else next to battle. Often I have asked
                        myself, as this youth has asked you, indeed, what is on the other side of
                        the world."
                    The respectful interest in young Ponce's voice cleared the shadow that had
                        begun to show in the eyes of the sensitive Colon.
                    "If I could answer that, Don Beltran," he replied, "I should settle a debate
                        that has troubled the minds of men since the infancy of the world."
                    "Nay, but what do you think?" Hernando demanded. "You have struggled for
                        years with the powers of Spain to convince them that there is another side
                        to the world. If you can think of another world you can imagine the look of
                        its face."
                    "I expect," said Colon, "to find the easternmost coast of India."
                    "Nothing between the outermost Canaries and India? A long sail!" Roderick
                        declared.
                    "Doubtless there will be islands, but even they will be close to the
                        mainland, as islands usually are."
                    "Why not a continent?" Beltran asked.
                    This was a question that the Genoese took pains to answer thoughtfully. It
                        was plainly one that he had debated with himself.
                    "A continent, signor, is a large mass of land. Navigators have sailed far to
                        the west and have found nothing. The world is not so large."
                    
                    "No room upon the globe for another continent? Is it a fair half of the world
                        that we already know, or more than half?" Beltran asked with some
                        surprise.
                    "Asia, sir, is a very great body of earth. It is my belief that it extends
                        far into the unknown, east of the borders to which Christians have
                        penetrated. Since, as I have said, the world is not so large, we could not
                        have another continent in the ocean sea and not encounter it by the
                        navigation that has already extended a great distance into the west. I
                        believe, therefore, that I will find only the eastern shore of India by
                        sailing west."
                    "And stand on your galleon's peak with the sea overhead to do it!" said
                        Garcilaso, unbelieving.
                    Hernando shook his head and thrust back his forelock.
                    "Señor, if you must do that, I will not go adventuring to your new
                        hemisphere. I grow giddy very readily."
                    "You do, indeed," declared Villagarcia. "But, señor, you have offered us
                        another side of the world of a kind with the one upon which we live. This is
                        a very good world upon this side of the ocean sea—stable, real,
                        godly, inhabitable. But what say you to the island of Saint Brandon that
                        swims in the air—the sea of Kelp and tangle that swims your keel
                        and anchors you forever, the zone of total calm where never a wind blows and
                        motionless caravels rot in its waters and sink into a stagnant sea?"
                    The Genoese leaned forward with his elbows on his knees and his strong hands
                        clasped before him.
                    "Señor de Villagarcia, I was told that the heavens covered only the northern
                        half of the earth; that south of the southernmost zone to which Christians
                        had journeyed there was chaos. I sailed as far as the ken of man. I found
                        the fair heavens over me; and there I met men who had come from the still
                        farther south, and they said that the sky was blue over them by day and that
                        the sweet stars shone over them by night. The good God created the world for
                        his sinful children, and  he has laid no such
                        obstacles and hinderances upon a place that his creatures are to
                        inhabit."
                    "What? Do men inhabit the unknown?" Villagarcia asked.
                    "Two of them so newly drowned that the sea had done their corses little
                        damage came ashore at the Flores," Colon answered.
                    By this time the last of the raillery was gone from the manner of the
                        cavaliers of the exploits, the other three had lost their charitable air,
                        and the five knights in attitudes of the closest attention fixed their eyes
                        upon Colon.
                    "They were copper-skinned men," he went on, "with high cheek-bones and wide
                        faces, beaked noses and hair like the manes of horses—noble
                        creatures of such sinew and stature that the rugged fishermen who dragged
                        their sodden bodies from the water seemed meagre and feeble beside
                        them."
                    "Go on," commanded Garcilaso. "Has anything else come hither from the secret
                        world?"
                    "I saw a bar of wood that was inscribed with strange characters. The work had
                        not been done with metal, but with flint knives or heated points of stone.
                        On it were suns, beasts, and idols, images like nothing I had ever seen
                        before. Huge canes whose separate joints were large enough to make vessels
                        have come ashore commonly. And once, upon the Canaries, a pine-tree of the
                        most prodigious height was cast up—a glorious tree, fit to be
                        measured by the stature of Giralda and the tall towers of our cathedrals.
                        But, in support of all these strange and noble witnesses from the unknown,
                        there comes a tale from the far north where men are golden-haired and
                        blue-eyed—the very whisper of a story that Norsemen centuries ago
                        skirted a vast coast lying broadside to the sunrise, with its northernmost
                        headland covered with unmelting snows and its southernmost cape under the
                        rage of the tropical sun. Why I should choose this as true, from the endless
                        tradition on the  matter, I cannot tell,
                        except that it has a ring of verity because of its lack of prodigies."
                    "Mother of God!" Garcilaso said in a low voice. "Think of the gold and the
                        splendor and the conquest behind such a vast frontier!"
                    Colon nodded to the knight, whose blue eyes shone, contemplating the opulence
                        of the sailor's dream.
                    "It is that, cavaliere, that I ask permission to lay at her Majesty's feet,"
                        he said.
                    "Permission!" cried Hernando. "By the mass! If I believed that as you believe
                        it I should take it in God's name and ask no man's leave!"
                    "Cavaliere, I cannot go pirating a treasure that I mean shall be devoted to
                        Christ!" Colon answered.
                    Garcilaso closed his lips upon a remark that he had ready and Hernando looked
                        curiously at the Genoese.
                    "Is that your ambition, señor?" Beltran asked. "Are you still a
                        crusader?".
                    "God's treasure should be devoted to the spread of the faith in Him," Colon
                        declared. "The Queen's generosity should be rewarded and the explorer should
                        have his own meed. I would carry the gospel of Christ to all the world,
                        enrich the crown of Castile, and leave to my children honor, competence, and
                        position."
                    "Great cities, teeming countries," Garcilaso recapitulated, "commerce,
                        warfare, religion, and learning, and never the faintest signal of all this
                        wafted to us across the ocean sea?"
                    "I am not so sure," said Colon doubtfully. "Even after we have excused the
                        silence by the explanation that we are as unknown to them as they are to us,
                        we must not lose sight of the fact that these men who came ashore at the
                        Flores were savages."
                    "Savages! How could they tell that, señor?" Beltran asked.
                    "They had never worn shoes. Their feet were hard, like horn. Their skin was
                        tough and scarred by scratches, as if they had breasted thorny growth
                        without garments,  and there were marks on
                        their cheeks of tattooing. There is no such glory of civilization as you
                        picture, Don Garcilaso, where men go naked."
                    "By the mass!" Garcilaso exclaimed. "You know as much by surmise as you may
                        know by investigation."
                    "Oh, such scanty testimony!" said the Genoese, waving his hands with a
                        gesture highly Italian. "Are you satisfied, cavaliere?"
                    "Nay; that I am not!" Garcilaso declared. "But do you expect to find Cipango
                        and India the domain of savages?."
                    "Friend, there are so many contradictions in evidence that my soul suffers to
                        discover for a certainty what does exist!"
                    "Civilized or savage," said Beltran reflectively, "we shall have a roomier
                        world at least. God knows we need it!".
                    The four knights, the silent courtier, and the sailor looked at him without
                        understanding.
                    "Room!" repeated Hernando, who had been sitting at Beltran's feet leaning
                        against his knee. "Stretch thy legs, Beltran. Hast thou a cramp?"
                    "Room, indeed!" Beltran declared. "We shoulder the infidel off the beach into
                        the sea and send the heretic up in smoke; we pursue the Jew hither and
                        thither over the face of the earth; we drive the gypsies into caves and the
                        poor into the grave. Oh, gentle sailor, give us a broad land, large as this
                        whole half of the choked world!"
                    "Nay, friend," said the Genoese mildly. "Shall we not do thus and so unto
                        these undesirable peoples?"
                    "We do but drive them into other lands, and they escape their end here," said
                        Beltran. "Let them go hence where Christians may not be at pains to pursue
                        them ceaselessly."
                    "Mark ye, Colon," said Hernando, "Ponce would use your new hemisphere in
                        which to banish bad inhabitants of Spain."
                    
                    "Bad inhabitants, doers of exploits, revilers of sober men, and knights of
                        perpetual youth," said Beltran. "I pray you, señor, tell us why you ever
                        thought of a voyage into the west."
                    "I think," said the Genoese, "that it began with a love-story."
                    "A love-story!" repeated the four knights as one.
                    "A love-story, indeed." The Genoese smiled at their interest. "One Robert
                        Matcham, an Englishman, loved Anne Dorset, a lady of high degree. But her
                        haughty parents separated them and married the sorrowful damsel to a suitor
                        of her own rank. But Matcham stole her from the very arms of her bridegroom
                        and fled with her aboard ship and weighed anchor for France. But a storm
                        blew up and carried them far into the heart of the great ocean and cast
                        them, worn and despairing, on a delectable island. That haven for the
                        distressed lovers which at last became their tomb was Madeira. And their
                        story hath set every adventuring face among mariners to the west in search
                        of the sister isles to this ocean paradise."
                    "Muy bien!" said Garcilaso sweetly, with a smirk in the direction of the
                        self-conscious Roderick and Villagarcia. "How romantic!"
                    "But," the Genoese continued, "it was the talent to do good in a great prince
                        that developed in me the desire to make his talent fruitful. Prince Henry of
                        Portugal, who made navigation a science, not an adventure, taught me to
                        believe in the sanity of God's creation and that his benevolence belted the
                        earth. When I learned not to be afraid of the ocean I became an explorer.
                        Expeditions had all gone southward; but there was invitation to me in the
                        west. The route to the east was laid down by the sun for me.
                    "I am a moderate man," the Genoese went on, "and slow to accept all that Polo
                        says of the wealth of the fabled East, but there is an exactness of time and
                        distance, a richness of unusual yet probable detail, that  rings true. The liar who tells too much trips
                        up on his minutiæ; but the truthful man fortifies his contention by detail.
                        I believe all that matters in Polo; what I do not believe matters little.
                        And if Polo could go overland through the domains of enemies and across the
                        unkindness of the face of the earth, why should I be afraid to venture upon
                        the bosom of my mother, the sea?"
                    "But I like to think of a city with walls of gold so burnished that they look
                        like crystal. I like to believe in thrones made of rubies and sceptres of
                        single emeralds. I should go to conquer such a land as that; but a land of
                        savages!"—Garcilaso shrugged his shoulders—"I do not feel
                        the invitation."
                    "You are a conquistador, cavaliere, I an explorer. Whatever I find will
                        please me; whatever you find must be to your wishes!"
                    "Tell them," said Quintanilla, who up to this moment had preserved an
                        interested silence of one who willingly hears again an old story told to new
                        hearers, "about the computations in time; about the sixteen known hours and
                        the eight that the sun passes out of our ken. You have interested the lads,
                        Colon; prove your conclusions."
                    Garcilaso drew his silk-clad knees up into the embrace of his arms, and
                        Hernando moved away from Beltran to be near to the Genoese, who took a bit
                        of chalk from within the breast of his broadcloth sayon and drew a circle on
                        the plank flooring of the tent.
                    "You have seen this," said Quintanilla in a low voice to Beltran. "Come
                        aside. I would speak with you."
                    Beltran arose, and the attendant brother moved his reclining-chair well to
                        the middle of the tent and put Quintanilla's seat down near to him.
                    As Beltran cast a final look outside before he withdrew to his new position
                        he saw that the sun was obscured. Little blustering hurries of sand sped
                        along the bed of the barranca and the path that led beside it.  Beyond the tossing crowns of the cypresses he
                        saw great yellow puffs of dust add increasing thickness to a cloud
                        underhanging the sky.
                    "A storm?" he asked Quintanilla.
                    "Veleta hath been stirring up a cloud in her caldron all morning. It is here
                        at last."
                    The auditor turned his attention from the weather to the knight now stretched
                        in his chair.
                    "How goes it with thy hurts, dear lad?" he asked.
                    "But slow," Beltran answered, frowning. "I dress every day, meaning to go out
                        of this place, but I am warned that my wounds will break open. A pest upon
                        it! I shall die of inaction!"
                    "Patience! This, henceforward, is to be naught but a siege. There is no more
                        glory to be won before Granada. Thou hast covered thy crest with honor.
                        Rest. The King hath employment for thee!".
                    Beltran revived.
                    "Employment!" he repeated eagerly.
                    "He sent me hither to inquire after thy health and to tell thee when thou
                        mayest safely ride to get thee to Sevilla, and to follow the Guadalquivir
                        thence to its mouth, to see what may be done with such a river as leaves its
                        port no port half of the time. The King incontinently means to make Sevilla
                        the first port of the world."
                    "He must ask the great river, by the mass!" said Beltran.
                    "Hark ye, son Beltran, is it impossible?" Quintanilla asked.
                    "I cannot tell until I look at it with a trained eye. When I was a boy I
                        believed it as unmanageable as the ocean."
                    "Now, what further I have to tell thee is not the King's word but advice that
                        I am moved to give thee because of my affection for a great liege. If Don
                        Ferdinand hath a fault, it is a determination to leave a monument to
                        Ferdinand solus for the generations in Spain, 
                        though it keep his table down to one fowl a week. The kingdom, son Beltran,
                        is penniless!"
                    "What!"
                    "As penniless as a spendthrift before he hangs himself."
                    "But what does this smoothly oiled reign run upon, good man?"
                    "Current revenues and the Queen's jewels. The funds accumulate at periods and
                        each and every maravedi passeth through thy gray-haired Quintanilla's hands.
                        I know that the King can go forward and incur debts that will require the
                        whole length of his reign and the infante's to pay, but we would have a
                        ducat or two in hand once in a while! Now, when thou goest to Sevilla look
                        over the river most critically. What need is there to make so much of
                        Sevilla when there is Cadiz. Discourage the King, and let us have something
                        left after the support of the army and the debts of the war and the expenses
                        of the state are paid."
                    He produced a thumbed list from his doublet and passed it to Beltran.
                    "Here, however," he added, "I deliver to thee, upon the King's command, the
                        list of moneys thou mayest command."
                    "Now, to be plain with thee," the auditor continued as Beltran paged through
                        the tablet, "there are other things which the King should do before he
                        begins to build monuments to himself. Thou hast met this Doña Antonia de
                        Aragon. The King means to wed Navarre to Aragon in the persons of the Conde
                        de Lerin and this same Doña Antonia. To do this, she must be richly dowered
                        from the King's own purse. He wants one hundred thousand gold ducats. If I
                        may pinch a few thousand here and there each quarter, by the end of the year
                        I may furnish him the sum. Otherwise he must go soliciting among rich men
                        and institutions for it, which I would spare him. But the King, without
                        doubt, would delay this wedding to improve the Guadalquivir  if he may have the glory of it. But we were
                        far better off with the revenues of Navarre pouring into our treasury than
                        we should be with Sevilla a little more spoiled and expensive than she is.
                        Thou seest, son Beltran, this wedding and the kingdom's expansion hangeth
                        somewhat upon thy judgment upon the Guadalquivir."
                    "Don Ferdinand is eager to leave himself a monument," Beltran commented, "but
                        strangely sceptical of a chance to do it when it is offered to him by lands
                        not upon the map."
                    "You have said it!" declared Quintanilla. "Don Ferdinand is totally blind to
                        his advantage in Colon's case."
                    "Rumor and tattle deceived me into expecting Colon to be a fool and a churl.
                        I had business with him and sought him out where he sat before your tent
                        retelling to a mixed audience of right-minded men and thickheads the true
                        gospel of the world we live upon. And I stayed to listen to him, enchanted
                        and won. Certainly he is a visionary. The man who can dream a new shape to
                        the world and a new world upon an old one cannot lay a limit upon his
                        dreams. He should be rewarded for entertaining us if not for the truth in
                        his visions."
                    "Ay, there it is! His trouble lies in that his visions divert his great
                        hearers. They listen to him with a certain credulity as they do to some
                        wandering pilgrim who thinks he hath been to the Holy Land and seen wonders;
                        friendly and credulous enough, but craftily opposed to lending him ducats to
                        put his expedition through. Sometimes, methinks, the Queen is just so minded
                        anent the Genoese. If she could be roused out of the listener's attitude
                        into a patron's attitude, we might hear all about the other side of the
                        world.
                    "I believe that the King and Queen need to be rudely awakened," Quintanilla
                        resumed after a silence. "Let it be some headlong fellow who is already in
                        as much peril as may well compass a mortal head. Could such a man break into
                        the audience-chamber and hurl all  that we
                        have said, but in hotter terms, into the teeth of the monarchs, he might go
                        neck and crop into prison, but the King and Queen would right soberly
                        consider the truth of his remarks after he were well to pot! It is their
                        way."
                    He had hardly spoken before some one entered at the opening of the tent. It
                        was Calcena, who shook off the sand from his shoulders, cleared his eyes,
                        and showed his yellow teeth in a smile that acknowledged his dishevelled
                        appearance.
                    "A wicked wind," he said, returning the greetings of the knights, the
                        courtier, and the Genoese. "It grows worse. You should see the damage it
                        hath done in the campo where the full force is felt."
                    He passed around the group close to the doorway and came to Quintanilla.
                        Bending over the shoulder of the royal auditor, he said in a low voice:
                    "I pray you excuse my pursuit of you into your leisure hours, sir, but an
                        important matter had escaped my mind which must be discussed to-morrow
                        morning at the King's early council."
                    "Say on, sir," said Quintanilla promptly, "for if you come for money the
                        story is soon told."
                    Calcena favored Beltran with a wintry smile and so incorporated him in the
                        interview.
                    "Is there a surplus that I may promise the King toward the dowry of Doña
                        Antonia de Aragon?"
                    "There is not a tenth part of a maravedi over and above the current expenses.
                        If I needed a quill to write my name with I should have to steal the goose
                        to get it."
                    Calcena smiled and shook his head.
                    "Alas, the matter grows serious!" he said. "Here we have the suitor ready and
                        wooing, the maid looking forward with happy trembling, and a gulf between
                        them that must be spanned with ducats before one can cross to the
                        other."
                    "Hark ye to a cleric telling a love-story!" Quintanilla laughed; "
                        and—by Our Lady!—he is as nearly right  as most men are who essay a thing outside of
                        their own experience."
                    "Outside of mine experience!" Calcena expostualated. "Good sir, I have been
                        pressed to find this dowry for nearly a month, and I have not scraped
                        together two copper coins. It would seem that an evil fate pursued the poor
                        children."
                    "Ho! All of it goes to prove my saying, else you would know that Lerin is
                        making merry while he waits and the maid is right willing that the dowry
                        should accumulate slowly."
                    Calcena, who had raised himself from his stooping posture, darted a swift
                        glance at the auditor.
                    "Do you tell me that she is reluctant?" he asked Instantly it occurred to
                        Beltran that Calcena might see a possible connection between Antonia's
                        reluctance and the person who had interfered with his attempt to raise her
                        dowry by extortion from the Jews of Aragon.
                    "Reluctant?" Beltran broke in mildly. "And the Conde de Lerin so gallant a
                        knight? Nay; you may depend upon it, she is only coy."
                    Quintanilla wisely held his peace.
                    "Say you so, indeed! Well, then, there is one thing further, and I shall
                        hence. It hath come to my hearing that her Majesty hath commanded you to
                        take a census of Spain."
                    "I send forth my letters even now."
                    "Then, perchance, I ask too much; but might it be possible for you to learn
                        for me, as your friend and admirer, how many Jews there are in the
                        realm?"
                    "Your admired friend, Calcena, would be right glad to offer you this courtesy
                        had I the money with which to do it, but you must know that I am pressed
                        even to enumerate the mass with the funds at hand. It would cost a pretty
                        sum to make a separate item of the Jews."
                    "Right! I had not thought of that. Well, we have not so many. Thirty or forty
                        thousand families. Let  us cast about and
                        raise this dowry somehow. Don Beltran, you observe, bears out my claim that
                        I know impatient love when I see it."
                    Beltran did not hear him. In idly turning over the leaves of the note-book
                        which Quintanilla had given him he had come upon a neat entry written in
                        Latin. It said:
                    
                        "Funds available for the dowry of Doña Antonia de Aragon:
                        "Private. Item. The Duque de Medina-Sidonia.
                        "Public. Item. Nine cities; the Santa Hermandad; the Holy Office of the
                            Inquisition."
                    
                    The stir of concern in his heart for the safety of Antonia from Calcena,
                        never entirely at rest, had augmented suddenly. He began to see many avenues
                        still open by which the inquisitorial secretary might conclude that it was
                        she who had possession of his dangerous secret. A marriage with Lerin and
                        her immediate removal to Navarre would be the safest and swiftest way out of
                        danger of retaliation, but Beltran's distaste for this obvious remedy
                        surprised him.
                    He had fallen into troubled thought when he was aroused by Calcena's voice,
                        now at the threshold of the hospital.
                    "Milder defections than yours, Colon, have been called heresies. Less
                        persistent dealers in theories opposed to the Holy Writ have been sent to
                        the stake."
                    He was gone, but he left behind in Beltran's mind the profoundest alarm. The
                        royal inquisitor was hinting at charges that he might lay against the
                        Genoese. Under the persuasions of the torture chamber, there was no telling
                        how much even as strong a man as Colon might confess. Antonia's danger was
                        more imminent than it had ever been.
                    He reached over and took from Quintanilla's case a pen, opened the
                        close-stoppered inkhorn that hung at the auditor's belt, and wrote hastily
                        on a leaf of the book he  held. Beckoning to
                        an attendant brother, he gave the note to him and said in a low voice:
                    "To Mendoza."
                    After a moment, when the others were following Colon again, he saw Roderick
                        open the note and read. Presently the knight turned his head slightly and
                        nodded in Beltran's direction. Thus Roderick answered a line which said:
                    "The cardinal will be asked to sit in Colon's junta to-morrow. He may come
                        and go ere I can speak with you otherwise. Fail not to tell his eminence
                        to-night about Calcena's implied threat just now."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI
                    "POR EL REY"
                    THIS clouded Sunday afternoon ended for all time the
                        valiant sisterhood of the four knightly maids. Tomorrow a noble train of
                        knights and ladies would issue from the gate of the campo to conduct back to
                        Sevilla and to marriage Doña Francesca Ponce de Leon and Doña Leonor de la
                        Cerda. Antonia and the golden damsel would accompany them, but they would
                        never again be the weather-breasting, fight-facing, hard-riding, inseparable
                        four. And when Antonia and the golden damsel turned their faces toward the
                        free life of the wars again they would come alone.
                    Already two new maids of honor who were to fill the places left vacant by
                        Francesca and Leonor were in the campo. But they were a pair of rigidly
                        brought up young condesas who would never know as the knightly four had
                        learned by their long experience in the open, how to win, nor how good when
                        won, the friendship of men.
                    It was long since ever the quartet had wept, and they were as afraid of
                        emotion as boys would be. So they lounged in chopas of lutestring silk
                        throughout the hours of the siesta in the Oriental luxury of the marquesa's
                        apartment and kept up their spirits manfully.
                    While their lords with their friends in the hospital talked on the eve of
                        their departure to marriage on the shape of the earth, the expansion of the
                        kingdom and the revenues of the realm, the knightly maids discussed men, as
                        a matter of course.
                    Antonia, from whose limbs the shackles of custom had been well-nigh shaken
                        off, and who had lost her illusions, beat away from the topic from time to
                        time.
                    
                    "It is to be regretted," she observed, "that you will be absent when Granada
                        falls. To pursue the game to the last stand and then leave the trophy to
                        another is to be robbed of the reward of your labors."
                    "Peradventure, we shall all return for the capitulation," said Leonor.
                    "True," said Antonia, "the Moor hath victualled the city for a long siege.
                        You remember, the winters in the Sierras are not gentle and the infidel hath
                        hope that the weather will come over to his banners and cut off our supplies
                        as it did before Baza."
                    "That was a wretched season," the golden damsel declared. "If it is to be
                        repeated here before Granada I am going home."
                    "It will be repeated," said Antonia grimly. "Don Ferdinand faces the winter
                        with uneasiness. The nobles and the commons are tired. His forces are
                        smaller than heretofore. It will be a long day, damsels, before this city
                        falls."
                    "A long day, and they will be no more damsels," reflected the golden one.
                        "They will be old wives with litters of younglings, and their knights so
                        long absent that they will have forgotten what particular dish their lords
                        like to eat."
                    "And the golden one will be an ancient maiden still wearing moss-green gowns
                        for the sake of the flower of youth long since faded!" said Leonor.
                    "Oh, hearken to the bride at last making merry over the state she hath but
                        left behind!" cried the golden damsel. "Nay; but I shall have a fling or two
                        yet before I can crack nuts between my nose and my chin. The last of your
                        giddy days are past. But I"—producing a note from her
                        chemise—"I am still free to have notes from knights by the hands of
                        my duenna, though I have no chance to read them for fear my lady mother will
                        catch me at it!"
                    The marquesa, who had been vainly trying to sleep, turned her head toward her
                        charges.
                    
                    "Does your duenna bring you notes?" she demanded. "You should destroy them
                        and report her to your lady mother."
                    "Of a surety," said Leonor, smiling up at the ribbing of the tent, "that is
                        the proper way, damsel! Did you not know it?"
                    "Oh, but then," objected the golden one, "I should never know who sends them
                        nor what he says!".
                    "Think of the pleasure of having to guess," said Francesca, "or, failing
                        therein, allow us to help you at it!"
                    "Peradventure," said the golden one, glancing at Antonia, "there are some of
                        us unwilling to play that game. What say you, Antonia?"
                    "Is it possible," said Antonia," that you hold the Gonde de Lerin in such
                        reserve that he must needs write what he would say to you?"
                    "Doña marquesa, is there no way to wash her spirit of its suspicion?" the
                        golden damsel asked plaintively. "Ay de mí! How weary!" Antonia sighed.
                        "Tired of hearing of Lerin and never seeing him," said the golden one.
                    "Whose fault is it?" the marquesa demanded. "He hath seen naught of her but
                        her shoe soles in full flight from him for weeks. His Majesty knows of it
                        and is full wroth. Lerin himself carried the complaint to the King."
                    "Mend, Antonia," Francesca charged her. "They will not pick for you so
                        choicely again."
                    "No; the next one they select for her," said Leonor, "will be a cold-hearted
                        wretch with a hump on his back and a crack in his voice and as old as the
                        sacristan of Giralda."
                    "Little will I care for his cold heart if he be so foul-favored," Antonia
                        retorted.
                    "Why should one man be colder of heart than another when the creatures are
                        all cast in the same mould?" Francesca demanded.
                    
                    "The soul of a cold man descended through a spot in the sky that had no stars
                        in it," said the marquesa, smiling.
                    "Certes," said Francesca, laughing. " Why did I not think of it? Now, I
                        wonder if Beltran knows that his came that way?"
                    "What? Is thy cousin cold-hearted?" the marquesa asked.
                    Leonor looked quickly away. Antonia, without raising her head, glanced
                        furtively at Francesca and then at Leonor.
                    "Nay, then," the marquesa continued as if Francesca had answered, "I am not
                        surprised. These men who waste honey so freely from their tongues can have
                        little of it left in their hearts. And these Ponces are sad gallants, to be
                        sure."
                    "And on that ground you call him cold-hearted?" the interested golden Sancha
                        demanded.
                    "I call him a gallant," said the marquesa.
                    "Oh, all the maids in the campo are in love with him," said Francesca, "and
                        he sits on the small of his back with his eyes glued to a manuscript and
                        takes no thought of the glances that dart through the flap of the hospital
                        tent at him!"
                    "The saints assoil us! Perhaps the gentilhombre is but keeping faith with a
                        lady with whom he is already in love!" opined the golden one. "Now, I
                        wonder," she continued coyly, with her bright head upon one side, "if it
                        could be he that sent this note?"
                    Antonia flashed a look of the most undisguised asperity at Sancha. The talk
                        in the past few minutes had curiously depressed her, and she fought away the
                        golden damsel's insinuation with unaccountable indignation.
                    "You know who sent that note," she said distinctly. "You have been slighting
                        Don Garcilaso to a purpose. You have been inviting him to write an appeal to
                        you."
                    "Be warned!" said Francesca darkly. "You trifle with an uncommon man."
                    
                    "Is that note written by Don Garcilaso de la Vega?" the marquesa asked,
                        sitting up.
                    Sancha dropped back among her cushions and made herself comfortable.
                    "Uncommon," she repeated. "That is the word that hath brought Don Garcilaso
                        into my disfavor. He hath heard that he is uncommon until he believes it. It
                        will do him good to know that he is not so great but that he could be
                        greater."
                    Antonia found that she had lost interest in the debate.
                    "In the beginning," said the marquesa severely, "it is improper to have
                        received a note from him; it is worse to have displayed it. But if I had had
                        the distinction of attention from such a knight as Don Garcilaso de la Vega
                        I should never make light of it!"
                    "Oh, dear," the golden damsel mourned, "how can he ever be cured of his
                        conceit with such talk as this ever going on about him!"
                    "Useless to labor with her, my lady," said Francesca. "She has been spoiled
                        by his love for her. But if she means to try conclusions with him she will
                        infallibly get her lesson."
                    A page at that moment announced Doña Marta Valdes y Castellar, and the
                        marquesa instructed him to conduct the widow into the apartment.
                    Doña Marta appeared, leading José, who received a unanimous greeting of
                        fellowship and affection from the knightly four. He bent his knee before
                        them one by one and kissed each hand with a courtly greeting. But he
                        arranged his progress so that he might come to Antonia last. After he had
                        given her a polite salute he sighed, having performed a complicated task to
                        his satisfaction, and leaned against her knee.
                    She put her arm about him and drew him close and he drooped his head against
                        her.
                    "Hast foregone thy nap, cavalier, to dance attendance upon thy lady?" she
                        asked.
                    
                    "It was now or never if I were to see you before you depart," he replied.
                    "Come, shalt have thy siesta in my company," she said, lifting him with some
                        effort to lay him on her couch. Bedding him luxuriantly among her cushions,
                        she lounged upon her elbow at his side.
                    "Nay; but I shall not know that I am with you if I sleep," he objected,
                        smoothing the satiny surface of her chopa with his palm.
                    "But I shall know it, and the knight is ever ready to yield a lady her
                        pleasure."
                    This reasoning contented him, and, under the regular, balmy waft of her fan
                        that revealed to him satisfying glimpses of her face close by him, he
                        drifted off, in spite of his resistance, into sleep.
                    A company that numbered the tactful and sophisticated widow held a silent and
                        aloof Antonia. Between Doña Marta and the knightly maid there had been from
                        the beginning an unaccountable animosity that both kept out of sight by
                        avoiding each other. And now, with the widow's son at her side, Antonia had
                        withdrawn within herself.
                    She watched José's unconscious face, seeing in it something besides the
                        features of a little boy that she had known for a year, something hauntingly
                        like another face that she could not fix. But presently her contemplation of
                        him aroused in her a peculiar emotion, an admixture of personal love for the
                        gallant child with the primitive maternal feeling. An unconscious smile
                        played about her lips; her heart quickened, her color heightened. Without
                        realizing what she did, she rested her lips against his dark hair, and in
                        that moment he took that place in her heart which the child always holds who
                        first wakens the mother instinct in a maid.
                    When she finally looked up she encountered the gaze of the marquesa, full of
                        conflicting feeling, fixed upon her, and from her place the widow lowered at
                        her with smouldering eyes.
                    
                    The page again bent his knee before the marquesa, who, at his low-spoken
                        message, rose, excused herself from her guests, and went out into the sala.
                        In a moment she returned.
                    Antonia knew before the marquesa spoke what was to follow.
                    "The Conde de Lerin is coming," she whispered to Antonia. "The King sent
                        hither his command by his chamberlain that you receive him."
                    Antonia sprang up. All her sinews trembled with resentment.
                    "Go quickly and be dressed," said the marquesa, ignoring her manner. "This is
                        the King's engagement. You have punished Lerin enough. Do yourself no injury
                        now by persisting."
                    When, some little time later, the marquesa and her ward passed into the sala
                        they found Lerin there. His face was unsmiling. The gentlewoman sat until
                        her composed manner seemed to have cleared the atmosphere of its intensity,
                        and then she took her place in her cathedra and left Lerin and Antonia
                        seated at the foot of the estrada.
                    "It is but fair to myself to say," Lerin began coldly, "that I should not
                        have forced this visit upon you except at a royal command. This is no
                        feeling to prevail at the outset of our life together. Why have you fled
                        from me like a bird before a net?
                    "Sir, I have sought to anticipate your wishes. You have no real desire to see
                        me."
                    "I cannot hope to advance my suit if you are to interpret my thought to your
                        own fancy," he said sharply.
                    "Your manner is harsh, my lord," she said. "Let us talk of other things than
                        ourselves. We shall esteem each other better."
                    "I am here to talk of you and me; for no other purpose whatever. I am here to
                        induce you to accept my hand in marriage; to know the reason why I have
                        failed thus far and to mend the matter."
                    
                    Antonia had no answer ready to this flat demand. She had avoided the question
                        as it occurred to her in the hours of prolonged thought on her
                        situation.
                    "You should have been prepared before my coming with a sympathetic statement
                        of what the King expected of us. If you have been told, I am more willing to
                        charge the teller with disinterest in his story than to accuse you of
                        indifference to your own welfare, the welfare of the King and of the
                        nation."
                    "I was told; I was eloquently told," she broke in, " and deeply moved. I was
                        willing!"
                    "'Was willing!' By that I am tó learn that you are willing no longer.
                        Why?"
                    "My lord," she began, after a little silence spent in summoning resolution,
                        "I am only a woman. Even with the liberty that the great Queen has given me
                        beyond the customary boundaries that encompass a Spanish maid, I know little
                        and care little for anything but the things that all women care for. You
                        have asked me to speak; I must do so from my view whether or not I can make
                        you understand how perfectly it justifies my behavior in mine own
                        judgment."
                    "It is right," he said in a kinder tone. "We have more than mere preference
                        for each other to consider, even if we are allowed to consider that, my
                        dear."
                    "Thanks, my lord. And yet you have said 'if,' implying that we may not
                        consider mere preference for each other. It is that upon which my conduct
                        turns. My lord, when I heard that you had come and were without our
                        quarters, I and others stole to the doorway to look upon you in secret. You
                        were in full torchlight, a stately knight, most good to look upon. They had
                        told me who you were and that I was intended for you. So, as I beheld your
                        comeliness and your dignity and your strength and recalled what you were to
                        do for the King, realizing that you were to be mine, I was as proud and as
                        glad as a maid may be."
                    He put his hand over hers, but she disengaged herself. She was beginning to
                        feel all that she had lost.
                    
                    "I was ready and eager to love you. But one of us made a sound and you turned
                        quickly and discovered us. You looked first at me; then at another; and
                        still another, until your eyes fell upon the loveliest one, where they
                        paused and rested."
                    Lerin's face began to show relief; he thought he was beginning to see
                        light.
                    "But, sweet lady—" he began to remonstrate.
                    "This is not to your discredit," she interrupted. "But later, when we had
                        met, and when you had been told that I should meet you here, this selfsame
                        lovely one took you away with her."
                    By this time Lerin was smiling broadly.
                    "On the day of the Queen's skirmish, in spite of offered relief, you deserted
                        me for her, to my public embarrassment."
                    He was not to be prevented from taking her hand this time.
                    "And all this avoiding poor Lerin and giving him hard looks is because you
                        were jealous?" he asked.
                    "No," she said calmly. "I tell you this to prove my contention that there can
                        never be a tie between us. I cannot assume the attitude that alone appeals
                        to you. There is nothing in me of the kind of woman that you prefer. Were I
                        the last maid in the world, you would not be drawn to me. All that I may do
                        to your satisfaction is to win Navarre for you. That done, I should be
                        forced to spend the remainder of my days avoiding the men that I might love
                        and deluding myself that you love no other."
                    "Is your heart, then, already occupied?" Lerin asked.
                    "I have learned that I can love. I know that some time I shall love; and I
                        have learned, to your safety in good time, that it is not to be you whom I
                        will love."
                    "Now, here is the fruit of Isabella's foolish innovations," he declared
                        positively. "Had she followed the safe old custom and kept you in vigilant
                        seclusion until I came—"  "Spare us
                        both," she interrupted. "We cannot wed."
                    Lerin eyed her with some unexplained expression on his face. She looked
                        casually out of the lifted opening of the tent, about which servants were
                        busy tightening stakes and guy-ropes, to see that Veleta was muffled to its
                        base in gray mist.
                    "You do not love me and I do not love you, and so, begging the King's pardon,
                        we will not wed," said Lerin.
                    Antonia's face flamed at his ridicule and she sprang up. But he caught her
                        with iron hands and drew her down almost upon his knee.
                    "Dear child," he said with a tenderness that made her hate of him flare up in
                        memory of the time when she believed it sincere, "what a deal of words we
                        have wasted, what a lot of useless resolution and hard feeling, and all to
                        no purpose. However we feel toward each other; however reluctant you may be,
                        it is all of no avail. We are necessary stones in the rising structure of
                        this great nation. It is not left to us to decide."
                    Weeks before he had used the word "inevitable." In her resistance she had
                        forgotten that which she had realized and admitted. "Inevitable" it was!
                    "You must and I must," he continued; "and there is no help for us. But why so
                        positively declare that there can be no tie between us? Saints! It would be
                        a marble man that could not love you! And I am still the same knight upon
                        whom you looked with such maiden favor so many weeks ago."
                    "The King cannot wed you against your will!" she declared passionately.
                    "No; but he can become mine enemy should I refuse to oblige him; and you
                        see"—with a motion of his head toward Granada—"what it
                        means to incur the ill will of a sovereign."
                    After a silence he added softly:
                    "I would I could make you know how sorry I am!" "If you were sorry for me,"
                        she said bitterly, "you would refuse to oppress me."
                    
                    "Oh, but then I should have nothing in life-neither fief nor kingly favor nor
                        Antonia! And, since Antonia can give me all these things, am I so much to be
                        blamed if I cannot bring myself to be merciful to her? Oh, my dear! The
                        whole fabric of my existence is interwoven with yours! How can you think I
                        do not value you? You cannot part us without wrecking me. Without you I must
                        go on living, impoverished of all that I might have, as some old dotard
                        waiting to die. If I seem to prey upon you for my own ends, remember that as
                        I rise so shall you, my honor and my strength, my tamed and constant heart,
                        all your own!"
                    "You may not shift the blame," she declared, ignoring his speech. "I am your
                        victim!"
                    "Are you, indeed?" he exclaimed ardently. "Are you such a hard little morsel
                        that I must take that declaration as a consent?"
                    She wrested herself from him and, gaining her feet, walked away a space.
                    It was then she noted how still the pavilion had grown. The laughter and talk
                        within the marquesa's apartment had ceased. She recalled that in the
                        earnestness of their argument they had not controlled their voices. Lerin,
                        too, observed the silence.
                    "It is just as well," he said in a low tone as he came to her side, "that the
                        last of this critical interview be kept entirely within our confidence. Will
                        you wed me, Antonia?"
                    "You have said that I have no choice in the matter. Let that be your
                        answer."
                    "Now, I wonder," he said, smiling, "what sort of modified kiss is proper for
                        such a consent."
                    "I pray you, my lord, let there be no insincerity between us," she said with
                        a chilling heart.
                    He dropped gracefully to one knee and kissed her hand. Then he went over to
                        the marquesa, where, with many smiles, he repeated what she had said to
                        him.
                    But Antonia escaped into the marquesa's apartment.
                    
                    There she found the discussion of the gears of the brides to be going forward
                        with renewed energy. The three knightly maids talked all at once. The
                        serving-women flew hither and thither preparing the damsels for a resumption
                        of the day's social activities.
                    But Doña Marta had settled into total silence. Deep lines crossed her
                        forehead that had never before shown a mark upon its marble expanse. The
                        widow's snow-white, crimped barbe, that came up close under her round chin,
                        heaved and trembled, and with lowered brows she watched Antonia intently as
                        if totally unaware that the girl might notice her contemplation.
                    But Antonia was too full of increasing realization of what had happened to
                        her within the last hour to note any one's regard. She had submitted to an
                        engagement with Lerin. The thing she had told herself that she could not do
                        she had done. A sense that with her own lips she had refused something dear
                        and desirable, that with her own hands she had put out a fair light that had
                        begun to shine on her days, that she had taken a dreary weight and laid it
                        for all time on her breast pressed upon her with an amazement, with a
                        hurried feeling that she must retract.
                    The marquesa, wearing the air of one who has had a load lifted from her mind,
                        however unpleasantly it had been done, came into the apartment.
                    José, who had awakened, came up to Antonia. He had caught a glimpse of the
                        shining pearls about her neck. He pressed down the lawn frill and,
                        displaying the necklace, turned it round and round. Finally he looked up
                        into her face.
                    "Are you going to cry, demoiselle?" he asked.
                    "No, José, Antonia never cries."
                    "Have you a headache?"
                    "Yes, cavalier. Do you like my beads?"
                    "I would they sparkled like my lady mother's, but, at that, these shine very
                        sweetly," he observed.
                    In his musical masculine voice Antonia caught an  echo of something pitiless and oppressive. She looked at his upturned
                        face. Its resolute profile; its thin, red lips; its bold, black eyes; its
                        thick brows-all played potently upon some unpleasant memory.
                    "You resemble some one whom I know, José," she said.
                    "I look like my father," he declared.
                    "He looks like his father," Doña Marta put in at this as if she had been
                        roused from a stupor.
                    "But I never saw Don Manuel," Antonia objected. "I would see no resemblance
                        in José to one I never knew."
                    The boy recalled that he had expressed no sympathy for her headache.
                    "I would I could make you know how sorry I am," he said softly.
                    Lerin's words, almost by Lerin's lips!
                    Doña Marta had risen and had come to take José away. Antonia, with her eyes
                        fastened with dire enlightenment on the boy's face, did not see her. The
                        widow put her hands under the boy's chin and lifted his face.
                    "Can you not see the sire in the child, girl?" she whispered.
                    A start of shock, succeeded by a crimson surge over her face, proved that
                        Antonia had placed the resemblance. The girl made a quick movement as if to
                        push José away from her, and the child flashed at her his big, Spanish eyes
                        now full of surprise and a vague hurt.
                    "Shall I go away?" he asked.
                    Repentance and grief seized Antonia. A realization that the moment was final,
                        that some affectionate tie, some sweet habit was about to be discontinued
                        for all time brought the choking of tears into her throat. She caught the
                        boy to her breast and kissed him repeatedly.
                    "You can have but one purpose in mind," she faltered under the stress of her
                        feeling, while her eyes blazed at the widow, "to make you do such a thing.
                        Now that  you have done it, I charge you to
                        repair the wrong that you have worked upon this child. Be sure I shall not
                        stand in your way!"
                    It seemed as if the widow's face quivered, that an illuminated pallor
                        succeeded the desperation that had distorted her face before. She took José
                        by the hand and, after a few minutes' smiling conversation with the rest of
                        the women in the apartment, said her adieus to the marquesa and went her
                        way.
                    The animated conversation of the marquesa and the knightly damsels flagged.
                        The shriek of the wind and the straining of the tent cordage crept in above
                        their remarks. Antonia sat as she had sunk back into her chair when the
                        widow had left her. The marquesa looked at her ward. Then she commanded the
                        tirewoman to make haste. Again her dark eyes stole over toward Antonia, and
                        thereafter the noble lady flung commands, contradictory and indefinite, at
                        this and that flurried and bewildered servant, while the three knightly
                        maids kept a wondering silence. Finally the marquesa turned upon
                        Antonia.
                    "What is the matter?" she demanded.
                    "You know what is the matter!" Antonia flung back."You have known this all
                        the time!"
                    Under this charge the marquesa hurriedly gave attention to her affairs.
                        Antonia sprang up.
                    "And you were wroth with me because I was unwilling to wed this man!" she
                        cried, advancing toward the marquesa.
                    "Mercy, child! Are you going to strike me?" the marquesa asked breathlessly.
                        "Very few of the company here in the camp know of this. When the child fell
                        at the tent that day, two cavaliers discovered that Lerin-and one of them
                        asked the Marquis de Moya if he knew it. It was news to me."
                    The three knightly maids exchanged glances. Leonor bit her lip and looked
                        down into her lap. Francesca's goldstone eyes travelled in frank censure
                        from Antonia  to the marquesa. But the golden
                        damsel suffused and a smitten look stole over her beautiful face. She seemed
                        to be shaken with fear that the wrathful Antonia would turn next upon
                        her.
                    "I have been remiss in my duty," the marquesa resumed with a stateliness
                        entering her manner. "I am expected to aid her Majesty in maintaining the
                        reproach-lessness of her court. She must know of this forthwith."
                    "The reproachlessness of her court!" Antonia scoffed. "Once Doña Marta is
                        dismissed all will be pure again -though Lerin stays on!"
                    "If you urge the Conde de Lerin's sin against him, Antonia," the marquesa
                        said, "it will be known and named as a simple excuse to escape a wedding
                        that you should be proud to make. The Queen will not dismiss him whatever
                        her opinion in the matter may be. You know she never interferes with the
                        King's plans. It will do this woman no good to expose her history in that
                        hope!"
                    "Thank God," Antonia cried suddenly, "that I am a free-born woman with a
                        sovereign will!"
                    "Pray what does that mean?" the marquesa asked coldly.
                    "It means that here and now I swear, by the Virgin, never to marry
                        Lerin!"
                    The three knightly maids sprang up in alarm.
                    "Swear not!" Leonor cried. "Remember, you have vowed to oppose the King!"
                    "You have no will in this matter!" Francesca cried.
                    Sancha de Guzman, trembling and weeping, put her arms about Antonia, who
                        looked down at her.
                    "Why do you weep?" she demanded. "You were the first to awaken my doubt in
                        this man-to warn me in time!"
                    "It was a rash vow, Antonia," the marquesa said. "Pray to be released from
                        it."
                    "Rash!" Antonia repeated recklessly. "Like the fat and tender maiden of the
                        old time, I should be proud  of mine office as
                        morsel to a distinguished monster and sacrifice to a glorious people!"
                    The marquesa caught vainly at her fleeting temper. She tried to say something
                        quieting but her composure had been played upon too strongly.
                    "Ah! And you doubtless expect a Theseus of the valiant sword to be about your
                        deliverance! Be assured there is none, Antonia!"
                    Antonia moved past the marquesa toward her own apartment, and, as she looked
                        uncommonly big and threatening, the marquesa closed her lips upon a further
                        exasperating speech.
                    "Catalina!" Antonia called her duenna. "Hither! Fetch a mantle and
                        attend!"
                    "I am going to the chapel until I feel better," she explained with
                        restraint.
                    The marquesa thought of the storm without, but held her peace. Antonia
                        wrapped herself in the cloak that the duenna put about her shoulders, and,
                        without another word to the marquesa or her guests, she passed out into the
                        grip of the gale.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII
                    THESEUS OF THE VALIANT SWORD
                    COLON and Quintanilla had departed from the Queen's
                        Hospital.
                    The bird-spit sword had been brought forth.
                    Hernando examined it and laughed.
                    "An estoc, as the French say. A rasper! A raker!" he called it.
                    Garcilaso inspected it and nodded.
                    "I have seen others very like it in Toledo, but not so long nor so
                        needle-like," he observed. "This is a weapon with a future."
                    Hernando scoffed, but Garcilaso repeated his assertion.
                    "If you live long enough you will see," he declared.
                    "I shall find life irksome after I am a thousand," Hernando laughed. "So long
                        as men are made of bone and shelled in steel, brother mine, they must be
                        killed with hard blows and heavy brands."
                    "Steel," observed Garcilaso reflectively, "is, to my mind, a cowardice and no
                        protection."
                    "Is that why you wear so little of it?" Roderick asked.
                    "You have your adventure with Yarfe to prove that," Beltran said.
                    "And there," said Garcilaso, flicking the flexible point of the weapon toward
                        Beltran, "you have proof positive that this bodkin can pierce your laces and
                        sound your hollows, however you are armored."
                    "Neatly enough. But you know very well that yon skewer is no match for the
                        broadsword," Hernando said with finality.
                    "No?" said Garcilaso provokingly. "I can nick you with this bird-spit at your
                        best defense."
                    
                    Villagarcia and Mendoza laughed aloud and Hernando jumped at the
                        challenge.
                    "Have you a blade by you?" he asked Beltran.
                    At a sign from Ponce a fraile brought forth Beltran's weapon from a press. It
                        was a Spanish, basket-hilted broadsword, a little in advance of the times,
                        with complicated guards and counterguards and at its best on horseback.
                    But Hernando was not critical. He could handle anything from an ancient
                        Gothic two-hander to a Lanz-knecht's Flamberg, and a broadsword afoot was no
                        embarrassment to him.
                    He shook the blade, threw himself into a defensive position not unlike that
                        of a woodsman raising an axe, and nodded to Garcilaso.
                    "Play!" he said.
                    Garcilaso began to move on youthful feet around Hernando, with his shining
                        blue eye fixed upon the watchful one of his fellow, who turned with him as
                        the vane follows the wind. The other three knights, alert and expectant,
                        kept a breathless silencè. All in one instant motion the diamond on
                        Garcilaso's sword-hand spat fire, there was a slight forward movement, not
                        quite the lunge, but of the same incredible speed and exactness, and
                        Hernando's broadsword flashed simultaneously. But it twirled free in the air
                        and fell to the floor with a clatter. He of the exploits clapped his hand to
                        the side of his neck.
                    "Maldición!" he growled, searching for his handkerchief.
                    "Is the souvenir deep?" Garcilaso laughed.
                    "As deep as you could make it!" Hernando declared.
                    "Oh, no! I could even have rammed it through your neck."
                    Garcilaso turned to Beltran who had come up to his side.
                    "In Toledo, where I was born," he said, "they make the parent of this thing
                        once in a while for the use of  men who would
                        settle their grudges in their jupons-Sometimes they use a buckler with it,
                        or a dagger. But this, beyond question, is capable within itself. A quick
                        arm, a quick eye, and a quick foot; they are buckler enough for a man with
                        as good a reach as yours and as well oiled in his joints. It is time to work
                        out a science between this blade and the sword. I believe that one day men
                        will use this or its better in preference to any other weapon."
                    Hernando, recovered from his scratch, was making light of Garcilaso's
                        sword-art.
                    "It is to say, gentles, that dancing and sword-play will be one some day.
                        Some day, instead of declaring war on an enemy, we shall invite him to a
                        ball and pink him with a needle to the sound of a guitarra. We shall go into
                        battle in satin breeches and wristfalls and carry our hangers in pincushions
                        instead of scabbards!"
                    But Garcilaso went on to Beltran:
                    "There is one of these swordmen in the campo, a murderous wretch, but there
                        is no stain on the art he teaches. We shall engage him. It will do us no
                        hurt to make use of this bodkin now that you own it."
                    Hernando had wrapped himself in his capa and had set his plumed hat on one
                        side of his head.
                    "Let us forth," he said. "If we are to be disrobed by this wind we shall be
                        covered by the darkness."
                    "But I am loath to submit to an undignified combat with this churl of a
                        wind," said Garcilaso, accepting his bonnet from the hands of a fraile. "I
                        fear my lady-love will see me and be moved to mirth."
                    "Your lady-love is moved to mirth what time she sees you, anyhow," declared
                        Hernando. "But—"
                    He stopped to look down the wandering barranca at two figures struggling with
                        the boisterous gale.
                    "But," he resumed, as the other four knights followed his gaze, "it cheers me
                        to see the two of you prepared to make a good end. Your courage becomes
                        great cavaliers on the brink of matrimony."
                    
                    "They are women," said Mendoza to Villagarcia.
                    "Give you good den, fair sirs," concluded Hernando as he and Garcilaso,
                        wrapped in their capas, moved out of the doorway of the tent.
                    By this time the wrestlers with the wind were abreast of the hospital. One in
                        a plain mantle and following the first was evidently a duenna, but the
                        knights had only to glance at the other to know her as Antonia de
                        Aragon.
                    Beltran seized his military cloak and hat and, in spite of the low-voiced
                        remonstrance of the attendant fraile, flashed out of the rear of the
                        tent.
                    Garcilaso and Hernando, walking backward with the spatter of sand on their
                        capas and holding their hats with their free hands, saw Beltran meet Antonia
                        and wrap her in his mantle.
                    "Mira!" Hernando exclaimed softly. "Even the wind can be made a
                        go-between."
                    "Dios mio! That is a quick-witted wight!" Garcilaso murmured.
                    They stopped in their tracks to gaze. The pair, with one almost extinguished
                        in the cloak of the other, moved slowly and intimately toward the
                        chapel.
                    "Now, that is the King's ward," observed Hernando. "Does he hope to gain
                        aught by that?"
                    "Ay, and that he does," Garcilaso declared. "He has sixteen hours in his
                        personal day. Methinks, á la Colon, he is seeking the other eight!"
                    "Well, it is as close to church as he will ever get with her!" Hernando
                        asserted.
                    Garcilaso came close to his brother in arms and laid his hand on the broad
                        chest.
                    "Do you know what yon red-haired blade did for me?" he asked.
                    "Saved your life, I am expected to believe!"
                    "Saved my life, forsooth!" Garcilaso repeated scornfully. "What would that be
                        to me! No, by the mass! He saved my reputation."
                    Hernando lifted his brows.
                    
                    "I was guilty of a mistake!" Garcilaso went on. "I committed a folly. I went
                        back into battle, after killing Yarfe, while I was dizzy and winded, I
                        should have been slaughtered but for this stripling. It is not that I care
                        about losing my life. But to be killed would have meant that I had been
                        defeated, outfought, beaten, overmatched—in short, that there was
                        in the world a better fighter than I. He preserved to me my name as
                        Garcilaso the Undefeated. That is an admission humiliating enough, by Our
                        Lady! But it is the naked truth, nevertheless."
                    Hernando digested this reasoning while he watched Beltran and Antonia
                        disappear into the chapel.
                    "But what has all this to do with the affecting scene that we have just
                        witnessed?" he demanded.
                    "If," said Garcilaso impressively, laying off his words with a finger upon
                        Hernando's chest, "he wants her we shall help him to her, though we both go
                        to pot for it!"
                    "O Dios mio!" cried Hernando mockingly, "the gratitude! 
                            
                                'Sin ventura yo en locura
                                Me metí;
                                En vos amar es locura
                                Que me dura—'"
                            
                         He faced the broad howl of the gale with his bellowing baritone and
                        ploughed down into the campo while the blast snatched the quaint words of
                        Amadis from his lips and twirled them away like leaves into the falling
                        night. And Garcilaso, with a look of patient pain, his hands over his ears,
                        followed at a supportable distance.
                    Antonia had removed her cloak to save it from blowing away. Her scarf had
                        whipped off, and her black hair, fleeced and netted, was hindering her
                        vision. Unaware that she was taking the lead, the duenna, Catalina, wrapped
                        like a corpse in cerements, plodded by her mistress. Then a cloak fell over
                        Antonia's head and an arm held the thick, feltlike folds about her.
                    
                    The startled knightly maid looked up to find hèrself sheltered under the same
                        mantle with Beltran Ponce de Leon.
                    Joy and relief swept strongly over her in two successive tremors. It was he,
                        indeed, pale and thin, but living—and at her side! The impulse
                        seized her to ask him how he did, to chide him for venturing into the wind,
                        to command him to cover his head.
                    All this passing headlong through the mind of an eighteen-year-old damsel
                        whose face is as frank as the face of nature showed itself in her shining
                        eyes. And all this, innocent of its self-betrayal, was so apparent to a
                        knight of five-and-twenty that his pale face grew sunny with pleasure.
                    And so for an instant they contemplated each other blithely and rosily,
                        though this was all they said:
                    "Permit me, Doña Antonia, to cover you with my cloak."
                    "You are kind, Don Beltran; I had well-nigh surrendered to the wind."
                    He was between her and the storm; his hand guided her steps until the creak
                        and tinkle-tankle of the gusttilted bell on the roof of the chapel sounded
                        directly over her head. She was prepared to pause here for his leave-taking.
                        But he pushed the door open which Catalina had allowed to close after her
                        and conducted Antonia into the vestibule, still smelling of old harvests and
                        cattle.
                    "Grant me a private word with you, Doña Antonia," he said. "I shall speak to
                        your woman so that she will not disturb us."
                    Catalina, discovering that she had left her mistress behind, pushed upon the
                        doors that cut off the vestibule from the sanctuary and encountered the
                        knight.
                    "Be off to your prayers," he said. "Your mistress comes anon."
                    The woman dropped back into the chapel and Beltran shut the doors upon
                        her.
                    
                    "There is no place for you to sit," he went on, "but I shall not keep you
                        long. No one will come because of the storm. But I shall watch the path, and
                        if we are interrupted you have but to step within."
                    He leaned his shoulder against the outer door-frame, and with his eyes upon
                        the sandy walk that led along the green meanderings of the barranca he
                        continued at once:
                    "Lady, what is it between you and Calcena?"
                    The question that reached so far back in the happenings of her recent
                        eventful days was the last thing to be expected of the man from whom she had
                        awaited an expression of thanks for his life.
                    "Your question, sir, is unexpected," she said.
                    He looked down at her with his hazel eyes—old eyes, full of
                        ancestral sophistication and used to contemplating events that led up to the
                        crowning and uncrowning of kings; kind eyes, and eyes that seemed always to
                        smile.
                    "I know it is," he said gently, "but between us two is a bond that permits us
                        to be frank with each other. I owe you my life and, on the other hand, I
                        possess part of a great secret that is yours.
                    "I never owed so sweet a debt," he went on in a voice so much enriched with
                        feeling that her reserve filtered away in a happy confusion. "I shall pay
                        grateful usury upon it every day and die still owing it."
                    "You make too much of a simple Christian duty," she said.
                    "It was not simple," he declared. "It was an intrepid act. And the result of
                        your sacrifice to restore me to liberty and life is following with hateful
                        speed upon it. I am here stealing this interview with you to tell you so,
                        and to offer my whole self to your aid. Tell me, then, without fear, what it
                        is between you and Calcena?"
                    "Can it not remain a personal matter between me and Calcena alone?"
                    
                    "No, not alone! You may share it with any other whom I know to be a safe
                        guardian of your welfare. But not alone. If you will not tell me, pray go to
                        the marquesa."
                    Antonia, with averted face, shook her head.
                    "Then Lerin," he suggested experimentally.
                    "Never!" she said with curling lip.
                    "But, my child," he expostulated, turning in his earnestness from his watch
                        down the path, "you must not bait this bloody beast alone! You have exposed
                        yourself to his fearful vengeance, and you must have counsel and an arm to
                        your protection."
                    "How can he know that I have done anything against him?"
                    "Saints! It is to my astonishment that he has not known it long ere now!"
                    "But I am not afraid of him!" she declared stoutly. "I hold proof of his
                        evil-doing."
                    "That is a courageous damsel, as I have good reason to know aforetime," he
                        asserted. "But can you picture a fair trial of Calcena before the King?"
                    Her lids were smitten down at this and he knew that she was alarmed.
                    "His victims are all cowards, Doña Antonia," he said gently. "He made them
                        so. You could not gain a single witness nor, pity to confess it, have an
                        impartial judge. Nay, then; if you will not accept counsel from others, pray
                        let me be your humble advocate.
                    "Do you know," he went on in a confidential tone, "that I have not a cause
                        nor a care nor a dependent in the world; do you know that you are my only
                        interest besides myself—and before myself?"
                    Thus the saying of Beltran Ponce de Leon so immediately upon the words of the
                        Conde de Lerin—who gave nothing and demanded everything!
                    "Come, if I am to be your advocate," he said, encouraging her, "tell me all
                        about it. Who was Juan Garcia?"
                    
                    "Juan Garcia," she replied, hesitating, "was Calcena's messenger."
                    "So much I already know by eavesdropping. But how came you to take his name
                        and his mission?"
                    "He was caught in a landslip after a rain-storm in the mountains and hurt so
                        grievously that he died in a few minutes. A soldier who was part of the
                        escort and I were cut off from the rest of the train. We extricated Juan
                        Garcia. I had known him all my life, and I heard his last words."
                    "That was a great mitigation in the poor lad's death," he opined.
                    True to his expectation, she flushed. Without a doubt Juan Garcia, humble
                        messenger to a cleric, had raised his eyes in love to the noble Antonia de
                        Aragon, ward of the King.
                    "He was a gentle lad and a new Christian. I was glad to be with him at the
                        end. He lived long enough to say that then of all times he was least
                        prepared to die. And when I asked him why he told me."
                    "I heard that also from my crevice in the rocks," said Beltran. "But why did
                        you take up his cause?"
                    "Sir, Calcena ruined my family and threw me penniless on the charity of the
                        King. He was about to force an extortion upon the parents of a youth who
                        believed me merciful and good, an extortion that was to be used as my dower,
                        an extortion that was to be loaned to mine uncle the King! I know I threw
                        prudence to the winds, but I had just cause."
                    "I acquit you of impulse without reason. What was it that you gave to the
                        Jews?" he asked.
                    "The letters and memoranda that I took from Juan's pocket."
                    "You should have retained them, by all means," he said, shaking his head, "so
                        in event of exposure you might have something to enforce your charge."
                    "But why do you think that he may discover me?"
                    "Because he means to lay a charge of heterodoxy  against Colon, who saw you, that he may examine the Genoese under such
                        persuasion as his office affords him. And because," he added quickly, seeing
                        dismay in her face, "if my plans for protecting the Genoese are successful,
                        he may yet associate the person who defeated his aims at raising your dowry
                        with the same person who is coy with the Conde de Lerin."
                    Her face fell at this. The mention of Lerin shamed her.
                    "I was not unwilling to wed with the Conde de Lerin at that time," she said
                        without realizing how far she was taking this strange knight into her
                        confidence. "I but pitied Juan Garcia's distress and was resolved that his
                        people should not be ruined to my profit."
                    There was silence in which Beltran summoned fortitude to do that which was
                        the most distasteful thing that had ever confronted him.
                    "Upon this matter," he began reluctantly, "I came to speak. Your welfare, as
                        I have tried to show you, depends upon your attitude toward the Conde de
                        Lerin."
                    He halted at the verge of the leap and called the menacing countenance of
                        Calcena to mind for aid to go on.
                    "If you can marry the conde at once and go hence to Navarre, Calcena will be
                        powerless against you."
                    "Sir, will you, too, lend yourself to drive me into this wedding?" she cried
                        impetuously.
                    For a moment Beltran stared at her with rapid calculation changing the
                        expression in his eyes.
                    "Alas, poor child!" he exclaimed. "I drive you into aught against your will?
                        Never! Never will I do you such a disservice!"
                    After that speech and delicately to give her time to recover her composure he
                        turned away and looked out of the doorway of the vestibule.
                    "Doña Antonia, forgive my presumption," he said. "I urge your uncounselled
                        state as my excuse. Is there force to ward upon you? Are you unwilling to
                        wed the man whom his Majesty has chosen for you?"
                    
                    "Don Beltran, stranger and man though you be, I am that loath to wed the
                        Conde de Lerin that I feel no shame in declaring it to you, nor to the
                        campo, nor to the whole world if need be!" she declared.
                    "Take heart, then," he said as if he were speaking to an excited child.
                        "Whether or not the campo or the whole world support you in your cause,
                        depend upon it that Ponce, stranger and man though he be, is of your party
                        now and forever! Lerin is a selfish, ambitious, cold-hearted, dissolute man
                        spoiled by the worship of women and the favor of his King. No such man as he
                        can love any woman. But he will ruthlessly insist on a marriage with you for
                        the advantage thereto. That, Doña Antonia, is no fate for such a maid as
                        you. If you do not want him he shall not have you, by the Lord!"
                    It was comfort, the first that she had had. It was partisanship; it was the
                        perfect expression of her own argument. What if it did come from one who had
                        no glimmer of a right to interfere; for whom it was straining
                        conventionalities to expose her troubles! It was that which she had not
                        hoped to find this side of heaven, and here she had met it in the flesh,
                        with a gleaming eye and a squared jaw.
                    "His Majesty cannot wed me against my will?" she asked hopefully.
                    "He can make you willing by such methods that a marriage with Lerin will seem
                        like a lucky escape therefrom."
                    "Then I am no free-born woman," she declared bitterly.
                    "You are not," he asserted. "Nor am I a free-born man. So long as our wishes
                        are of a kind with the wishes of the lord whose vassals we are we feel no
                        bondage. But once our desires and the dominion over us part company we right
                        readily learn that there is no such thing as liberty in our state. You learn
                        now that which I learned when I was a captive. Nothing so puts a bold edge
                        upon one's thoughts as a season of  enforced
                        living in another man's way of thinking and by another man's will. I return
                        to my own estate owning a certain sympathy with the poor, the Jew, the
                        Moor—ay, and the heretic—that I did not have before.
                        Should I not be in deep sympathy with you in your bondage?"
                    She looked at him with a little uneasiness and he went on, abandoning his
                        post in his earnest desire to show her the light as he had seen it.
                    "What right have I to make you think what I think? What right has the King to
                        insist that you assume a state that you do not wish to assume? Why should
                        any person be vested with authority to make me do, think, or feel that which
                        I do not wish so long as I do not interfere with the rights and liberties of
                        any other? As between the real liberty of my present state and the captivity
                        I endured under Hacen, there is but one difference. There is no one to give
                        me freedom from my present condition."
                    It was light, a definite statement of the unformed idea that had moved her to
                        rebellion but which she could not have made plain to herself in words.
                        Naturally she was a little alarmed at herself and uncertain about accepting
                        classification with this man of whom she had heard things implied and said,
                        in whom she had seen things at least irregular, and who by his own lips
                        confessed that he was at variance with the accepted order of things. Her
                        welfare turned to an important extent in his keeping, and he had disarmed
                        her objection to him as an ally on the ground that he was in debt to her for
                        his life. What if he should prove dangerous, this man so full of kindness
                        and so equipped with force and charm which she was finding herself more and
                        more unable to resist?
                    "What hope have I, then?" she asked dejectedly.
                    "Let us take hope as the enemy loses it," he said, smiling. "Let us make
                        marriage with the gentle lady all unprofitable."
                    
                    "You speak in riddles," she said with resentment.
                    "Have you dower to take to Lerin? What have you but beauty, that he already
                        hath a surplus of, and goodness, that he cannot use? No dower, no wedding;
                        no wedding, no unhappy maid! A good formula; let us work it."
                    She laughed impulsively at his humorous manner, and the laughter let down her
                        resistance against emotion. She looked quickly away through a mist of
                        tears.
                    He took her hand and drew her near to him.
                    "Nay, be of courage," he said again in that tone which contained so much of
                        consolation and seniority. "We shall be confederates. You shall be my
                        charge, and I your counsel and champion. Help me by faith in me and gladden
                        me by being glad."
                    He kissed her hand.
                    "Go, now, to your prayers, and pray for me. Beseech Heaven to smile on my
                        villainies, for from this hour henceforward Ponce forswears his uprightness.
                        I go hence to divest a noble lady of her attractions and to cheat a fellow
                        Christian of his ambitions."
                    Smiling, he conducted her to the swinging doors, held them open for her, and,
                        bowing low, bade her farewell.
                    Then he stepped out into the gusty sunset and went down the path by the
                        barranca. When he reached the doorway of the hospital he did not turn into
                        it, but kept straight ahead, his face to the wind, his step swift and
                        purposeful.
                    It was only when his squire at his bachelor quarters welcomed the young
                        knight with a show of delight that Beltran realized that he had turned his
                        back upon his disabilities.
                    Some time later he had his lamp lighted, and under its glow he searched
                        through the little book that Quintanilla had given him for certain notes
                        that he had found therein besides the data meant expressly for him. It was
                        then he confronted in reality the magnitude of the task he had laid down for
                        himself.
                    
                    Page after page of that little book was covered with rough calculations in
                        monumental sums—ducats by the million; florins by the billion;
                        maravedis that ran into unreadable quantities; withal, an auditor's jottings
                        who handled the revenues of the richest nation on the earth.
                    "Heavens!" he exclaimed mentally, "what have I done?"
                    He dropped his book and with amazed eyes looked the matter in the face.
                    "I have offered the damsel help and so confirmed her in her resistance to the
                        King. I have bound myself to estop the accumulation of the dower on the
                        single opportunity I have in spending the King's money on the Guadalquivir.
                        As an impulsive Andaluz, I am a Triton among the minnows!"
                    Presently he picked up his book and, in paging over it, came to the items he
                        had found in the hospital. He reread:
                    "Funds available for the dowry of Antonia de Aragon.
                    "Private. Item. The Duque de Medina-Sidonia.
                    "Public. Item. Nine cities; the Santa Hermandad; the Holy Office of the
                        Inquisition."
                    "Nay, then," he said livening, "this table alone is to fall victim to me. It
                        is not so bad."
                    The Duque de Medina-Sidonia, not yet wholly reconciled to the supremacy of
                        kings. He put that item aside as subject to a different treatment. Nine
                        cities. He shook his head. The Hermandad. Again he shook his head. The
                        Inquisition.
                    "Here, Beltran, thou plungest through fire. Thou'lt do well to escape without
                        thy skirt aflame," he said to himself.
                    He thought of his own fortune accumulating idle revenues that he could not
                        spend upon a life so simple as the one he led.
                    "Saints! It may enter Don Ferdinand's head to borrow of me. Well, I'll
                        prevent that!"
                    
                    His gaze wandered away from the tablet to the lamp. He did not see it.
                        Instead, he saw the soft, gray eyes of Antonia de Aragon lifted to him,
                        wistfully waiting for him to offer her hope.
                    "How simply done by my bird-spit neatly slipped through Lerin's heart or by a
                        runaway with my lady to Tangiers! Ha! Robert Matcham and Anne Dorset, that
                        was an engaging example that you set. But I doubt if we could find a Madeira
                        safe from the storm."
                    Thoughtfully he drew his finger under the word Inquisition.
                    It threatened Colon through Calcena and Antonia through Colon. It was
                        amenable to draft for a marriage fund for Antonia, and it stood forever a
                        grim menace to any one who interfered with its workings.
                    The Marques de Cadiz, returning from a late council with the King, saw a
                        light in his nephew's quarters. Some little time later Beltran looked up to
                        find his uncle at his elbow.
                    "Sound once more?" the marques asked.
                    "Whole again and at work."
                    "What make you?"
                    "My fortune."
                    "Another fortune? Is not my wealth enough to satisfy you, my titles and my
                        estates?"
                    Beltran looked over the stout figure of the hale nobleman stripped of armor
                        and exposed by the close-fitting doublet.
                    "By the signs, mine uncle," he said with a smile, "I do not expect to come
                        into the fortunes of the Marques-Duque de Cadiz until I am toothless and
                        rattleboned with age. Besides, I love you too well to look forward to a gain
                        of anything by your death."
                    The marques shook his head with a grave air.
                    "Deceptive, my boy," he said. "I have had signs that I dare not ignore."
                    "Vaya!" said Beltran sceptically. "You exercise too soon after you sup. You
                        know, my good lord, that the  King sees fit to
                        make use of me as an engineer. It is somehow an artisan craft, a labor, at
                        least, not equal yet, in the eye of Spain, to the glory of warfare alone.
                        You have looked coldly upon my desire to engage my fortune in trade. But if
                        I am to be excused for my departure from the conventional noble's life
                        because the King has work for me to do, I presume that the nice society of
                        Spain will allow me further latitude to put my little in commerce."
                    The marques twirled his red mustache and allowed Beltran to continue.
                    "My duty as his Majesty's engineer will carry me hither and thither all over
                        Spain and its wide possessions all of my life. I can never be a leisurely
                        nobleman settled on my estates. Moreover, the commerce of the seas is
                        growing. The new world is the water. I would put my lands in caravels and my
                        vassalage into merchandise. I give you my word that I shall never use your
                        riches in the scheme—should they ever be mine. Only the patrimony
                        that my father left me."
                    "Well," said the marques finally, "it is but fair. Should I outlive you,
                        Beltran, having refused you your wish, I should regret it all my life. Tell
                        me what it is that you wish to do, and you shall have not only my consent
                        but my aid."
                    It had no part in Beltran's plans that he unfolded to the marques that he was
                        hiding his fortune from the Inquisition should he fail, or from the
                        supplication of a royal borrower. Neither did the marques learn that his
                        nephew by this step had irretrievably committed himself to the cause of
                        Antonia de Aragon. But the good nobleman was mildly surprised at the light
                        that shone in his nephew's hazel eyes upon such slight provocation.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII
                    THE JUNTA
                    THE party that was to conduct the brides to be back to
                        Sevilla was waiting on Antonia and the Marquesa de Moya. The foremost squad
                        of mounted escort had passed some time before and had broken ranks at the
                        gate while they waited. The courtiers loitered about clusters of nice-footed
                        little mules, each tinkling its silver bell and bearing its lady in plumes
                        and velvet footmantle.
                    The day was cool and bright and brisk, the kind of a day that puts hope in
                        the head and love in the heart, albeit the background of that smiling
                        picture was a starving city under siege, a merciless war, a mediæval
                        monarchy, and a gloomy religion.
                    Don Beltran Ponce de Leon was not to ride with the merry train. Business with
                        the King detained him. But he mingled with the wedding-party to bid his
                        brothers in arms farewell and, with the event of yesterday's windy afternoon
                        uppermost in his mind, to say a special word to Antonia de Aragon.
                    The Conde de Lerin came riding down from the King's pavilion. There was a
                        glint in his black eye and his jaw was slightly undershot.
                    He saw Antonia de Aragon and the Marquesa de Moya join the wedding-party and
                        the glint in his eye became red.
                    One of the flower girls of the campo, with her tray hung from her neck,
                        passed near him. Lerin stopped her. With the greatest care he selected a
                        white rose  and, making sure that Antonia and
                        the marquesa saw him, rode through the idly disposed company to the side of
                        the golden damsel. With a smiling compliment he pressed the rose to his lips
                        and offered it to her.
                    The golden Sancha took it, smiled her thanks, and murmured her pleasure. The
                        conde informed Villagarcia that he would join the party at once and moved
                        away toward Quintanilla's quarters.
                    The faintest shade of a grimace passed over the perfect face of the golden
                        damsel. The mulled drink of flirtation had soured.
                    She glanced up from contemplating the rose to see the soft, blue eyes of Don
                        Garcilaso de la Vega beaming upon her. He never in the world could have
                        missed seeing that grimace or failed to understand it as marking the end of
                        Lerin's favor.
                    She told herself that it would never do.
                    There was Don Beltran Ponce de Leon, of whom much talk was made. Upon his
                        dark-red hair, as his horse carried him into the sun, the light worked a
                        marvel as upon unbeaten gold.
                    For some reason, possibly because the look on the conde's face had been so
                        little expressive of an intended gallantry with a rose, Don Beltran's hazel
                        eyes studied her. She turned the witchery of her unparalleled smile upon him
                        and he doffed his plumed bonnet.
                    The eyes of Don Garcilaso, ever ready to see things to his own advantage,
                        should be deftly admonished in time. She put her golden head upon one side,
                        lifted the rose tentatively to her glowing cheek, and then dropped it coyly
                        and daintily into the hand that Don Beltran swiftly ungloved to receive
                        it.
                    Never was so insincere a favor to produce so many effects at the same time.
                        Lerin, riding slowly through the congestion, turned in time to see his
                        full-petalled, perfect rose, burdened with a cancelled kiss, laid in Don
                        Beltran's hand. And as Don Beltran moved away to hide his amusement from the
                        fulminating conde he  looked straight into the
                        gray eyes of Antonia de Aragon. And past him and her and the golden damsel
                        rode Don Beltran's sworn partisan Don Garcilaso de la Vega. But on the
                        religious face of that most human knight was a Memnonian repose, a complete
                        mask for a tumult of sensation within him, that contained nothing rancorous,
                        however, for Don Beltran. He had good reason to know that Doña Sancha, with
                        all her charms, could not elect Don Beltran to the place recently vacated by
                        the Conde de Lerin.
                    From one to the other of the party Don Beltran passed. He had farewells to
                        say and greetings to get from those whom he had not seen since the day of
                        the Queen's skirmish. But Antonia had greeted him when he had caught her eye
                        at that fatal minute and no further notice from her was forthcoming.
                    Then he encountered a whisper uttered stealthily and with the utmost
                        innuendo. It spread swiftly and soundlessly through the whole party.
                    The Queen had banished Doña Marta Valdes y Castellar from her train upon
                        testimony furnished by the Marquesa de Moya and unpleasantly involving the
                        Conde de Lerin. And, while Don Beltran listened, Lerin's squire hurried up
                        to Villagarcia and informed the knight that the Conde de Lerin had met with
                        delay that would not permit him to ride with the party but that he would
                        follow before the next day.
                    So after due word had been passed along the line to the captain of the escort
                        the brilliant wedding-party moved on to the gates and out upon the road to
                        Sevilla.
                    With a rose that weighed like lead and cried reproaches to him, Don Beltran
                        did not know what to do. That was not the way that he had intended to say
                        farewell to Antonia on this beautiful morning that was to separate them for
                        a long time. Neither was the incident that imposed the flower upon him one
                        that he was willing Garcilaso de la Vega should see. Truly, it was an
                        unlucky rose, and when he reached a less crowded portion of the  Camino Ancho he let it fall into the dust
                        under his horse's feet.
                    As he dismounted at the entrance of the great pavilion where Colon's junta
                        was to sit that day he gave his horse to a groom and turned to enter the
                        place into which a fair audience of twos and threes was already passing.
                    Some one with a light foot hurried up behind him.
                    "Stay, son Beltran, let me at you before the usher," the light-footed one
                        said.
                    "Good morrow, Don Alonso," responded Beltran, turning to greet Quintanilla.
                        "Why save me from the usher? Am I out of order?"
                    "No, but I wish you to sit with me."
                    He took the young knight's arm and, passing through the parted entrance, came
                        under the lofty webbed roof of the tent.
                    Gothic furniture mixed the airiness of the fabric hall with sombreness.
                        Across the centre of the space ran massive forms made by conventual joiners
                        and around the sides estradas covered with cloth were set with cathedras for
                        the high prelates, princes, and lofty nobles who might attend such
                        assemblies as gathered there.
                    At the front was a platform in two tiers. Upon the upper one, significantly
                        carpeted with scarlet, were two or three throne-like seats. Upon the lower
                        was a reader's lecturn and several chairs.
                    Before this stood a long table strewn with old manuscripts and a few printed
                        books, together with two or three forms of compasses, an astrolabe, and a
                        globe of cardboard upon which were tracings in colored pencils.
                    To the right and left of this table were several charts and maps. They were
                        of various ages, showing the progress of the world's learning in
                        cosmography. But nearest to the table and in full view of the whole assembly
                        was a chart wholly unlike the others.
                    It was described with two hemispheres, not parallelograms, marked with arcs,
                        not perpendiculars. Within  one of these
                        circles was confidently drawn a map of the known world. The other was
                        blank.
                    That day the junta was to decide whether or not Cristobal Colon was to be
                        allowed to fill that space with a world unknown.
                    The usher led Beltran and Quintanilla behind the rearmost row of forms down
                        to a position near the centre of a right aisle.
                    "It behooves the friends of Colon to mass their forces," said Quintanilla
                        with a motion of his hand over the vast interior of the pavilion, "for you
                        see his enemies combined."
                    A number of court functionaries, whose interest in the project of the Genoese
                        had admitted them to the sitting of this erudite body, occupied stalls along
                        the sides. These, in gorgeous doublets of brocade and velvet with their
                        jewels and sword-scabbards of massy gold, relieved the barrenness of the
                        great tent with an interlude of brilliance and luxury.
                    But upon the benches in the centre of the hall and before the lecturer's
                        platform was a knot of friars in the black and white of the Dominican order,
                        and standing among them was Juan Royz de Calcena.
                    There was focalized the resistance to Cristobal Colon; there was the menace
                        which would destroy him. Beltran drew in a quick breath and a little chill
                        played over him. This was not only a decisive hour for the Genoese; it was a
                        mortal hour. Through him the hand of the evil plotter who stood among the
                        cluster of dull, superstitious monks would fall upon the damsel whose gray
                        eyes had illuminated all the dreams of Beltran's previous night.
                    Upon the lecturer's platform was Hernando de Talavera, bishop of Avila, a
                        gentleman in the holy orders, a grandee in conservatism, and a doubter in
                        the ability of the commons. There was Fray Diego de Deza, friend of the
                        church as a state and zealous for the advancement of its power. There was
                        Don Alonso de  Cardenas, the Comendador Mayor
                        de Castilla, grand master of the Order of Santiago, the most formidable
                        noble in Spain. He had risen from the people and he knew how seldom the man
                        who will rise is met among the masses. There was Alessandro Geraldini,
                        Italian, whose vote in favor of Colon would be taken as tinctured with a
                        predilection for a fellow countryman. And there was Pedro Gonzales de
                        Mendoza, grand cardinal of Spain.
                    He was a warrior, a diplomat, and a financier in the holy orders. Since the
                        mediæval church thrived on politics, this consummate politician could not
                        help but climb. So long as monarchs consulted prelates in planning
                        campaigns, effecting alliances, and projecting improvements, he was in his
                        element. He was a formidable enemy, a far-seeing framer of laws, a man in
                        advance of the church of the times and a believer in the advance of the
                        church with the times.
                    But the untempered blood that made him all these things was not the kind of
                        blood that should flow in the veins of a cardinal. With his bushy white
                        eyebrows, his countless wrinkles, his nose beaked like an eagle's, his firm,
                        slanting old mouth, his nimbus of fine hair, and his ruddy coloring, his was
                        no ascetic presence. On such a robust, overnourished frame his scarlet
                        mozetta lost its spiritual meaning and became the habit of a priest of life
                        with all its material good.
                    And there, like a malevolent idea suggesting itself to every unresolved head,
                        was Juan Royz de Calcena.
                    These constituted the junta to pass upon the claims of the Genoese.
                    Talavera, the moderator, invoked silence.
                    The whole assembly knelt for the invocation.
                    Then the reseating of the audience revealed to the, eye a solitary standing
                        figure in a threadbare but decent robe of broadcloth—the genius of
                        the age, ready to enlarge the earth and to divide time into its third
                        cycle.
                    Hernando de Talavera rose in his place and introduced  to that audience of high prelates, haughty noblemen, learned
                        doctors, and holy men Cristobal Colon, a sailor from Genoa.
                    While he was speaking some one came and sat down directly behind
                        Quintanilla.
                    "Luis de Santangel," said the auditor under his breath and without turning
                        his head. "He should not have come here. If Calcena should bring aught upon
                        Colon's head we shall have Luis to deal with. He is slightly mad on the
                        subject of the persecutions by this inquisitor."
                    A reader rose in his place at the long table and began the
                        recapitulation.
                    Five years previous to this time the crown had convened a council at
                        Salamanca to hear Colon for the first time expound his theories of a round
                        world and a way to the east from the west. The examination had extended over
                        many days and embraced the discussion not only of the cosmography of the
                        period, but navigation, astronomy and history, tradition, and scholasticism.
                        The records were so bulky that the month's time between the appointment of
                        the junta and its convention had been put in by clerks arranging the matter
                        in order and outline.
                    Thus disentangled from a vast amount of dispute and set forth concisely, the
                        theories of Cristobal Colon were marvellously simple and convincing.
                    At first those who had been present at the original junta were not prepared
                        to accept the clean-cut hypotheses as the same which, five years before, had
                        been presented in long, vague, involved argument. But at Colon's assent
                        after each paragraph they lost their scepticism and settled back to be
                        convinced by a rational cosmography if not to be persuaded to urge the
                        expedition.
                    The phenomena witnessed at sea which could not be explained according to the
                        prevalent notion of a flat earth; the rising and sinking of the pole-star as
                        viewed  from different points, north and
                        south; the rising of a vessel to the eye by mast-top first, the rigging
                        next, then the decks, and lastly the hull; and the final declaration, as an
                        explanation for it all, that the earth was not a plane but a
                        globe—all this Colon reaffirmed.
                    Next the computations in time were presented and approved.
                    Then the recital left the path of scientific demonstration and turned to the
                        testimony of earlier explorers and the ethical value of further progress
                        into the unknown lands of the earth. Passages from Polo that Colon had cited
                        were reread, dealing with the boundless extent and wealth of Asia, which
                        should pour its tribute into the lap of Spain; treasure which Colon had said
                        should be used to rescue the holy sepulchre and convert the whole world to
                        the true faith; the petition was rementioned that the Grand Khan had sent to
                        the pope asking for teachers of the true faith and which had never been
                        granted.
                    Then such argument of the council as had actually furthered the exposition of
                        Colon's theories and his answers were recounted. Although this was old
                        argument, many in the present assembly identified their own debate in it and
                        their dormant interests were aroused by rehearing their own words. The
                        friars who had been thumbing manuscripts laid them down and nobles dropped
                        their undertone of conversation.
                    Colon's replies explained the adherence of the feet of man to the face of the
                        earth however the globe turned in the blue air; that the heavens covered the
                        northern as well as the southern hemisphere, adducing his own witness to the
                        fact upon his voyage to Saint-George de Mina low upon the coast of
                        Africa.
                    At this point the friar by whom Calcena had been sitting broke in:
                    "That is but the testimony of one witness. Here be no other to bear him out.
                        Behold me! I hold here the irrefutable testimony of the holy writ that the
                        earth is  flat. Who are we to take pains to
                        see if it be not a ball?"
                    "Laissez aller!" Quintanilla whispered to Beltran. "Now watch them come to
                        life!"
                    As if to Quintanilla's tourney cry, the mention of sacerdotal data brought a
                        rise from all the churchmen but the reposeful cardinal who sat and listened
                        watchfully.
                    "Padre," the Genoese answered in his confident way, "the tongue by which the
                        divine word was given to the world was not the tongue that we speak to-day.
                        The holy word found utterance through other figures than those by which we
                        express ourselves. I am an Italian. In my own language I use figures which,
                        if interpreted into Castilian, were meaningless or misleading. So with the
                        tongue of the writ. It hath suffered in translation; it suffers because we
                        fail to understand its poetry."
                    "Ah! Ah!" said Quintanilla nervously, chidingly. "He is getting upon their
                        own ground now and off his own. The men of the cloister are masters of the
                        intangible disputations of theology. He will be no match for their
                        pedantry."
                    By the time the Genoese had finished his reply there were several friars upon
                        their feet. One, who held a bound manuscript open in his arms, moved some
                        paces forward and cried down his fellows.
                    "Let be, then. Is this poetry? This from Lactantius!" He began to read slowly
                        and with emphasis:
                    "Is there any one so foolish as to believe that there are antipodes, with
                        their feet opposite ours, people who walk with their heels upward and their
                        heads hanging down? That there is a part of the world in which all things
                        are topsyturvy; where trees grow with their branches downward; where it
                        rains, hails, and snows upward? The idea of the roundness of the world was
                        the cause of inventing this tale of the antipodes with their heels in the
                        air, for these philosophers, having once erred, go on in their absurdities
                        defending one with another."
                    
                    The friar closed his manuscript with a slap.
                    "The worthy Lactantius," said Colon calmly, "expounds here his own opinion,
                        not the divine word."
                    The friar rose again with an ominous cloud on his face.
                    "Italian, you accept and reject what you will of the testimony of saints.
                        Well, hear yet further. San Augustino connects science and the writ past
                        your evasions. He saith that the doctrine of the antipodes is not
                        reconcilable with the history of our faith, since to assert that there are
                        inhabited lands on the opposite side of the earth is to maintain that there
                        are nations not descended from Adam, it being impossible for them to have
                        crossed the intervening ocean."
                    "He is trying to drive Colon into some statement that Calcena can construe as
                        heterodoxy," Beltran said with conviction.
                    "Santa Maria! Can it not be stopped?" Luis de Santangel breathed over
                        Quintanilla's shoulder.
                    "Peace, Luis," said Quintanilla to the trembling converso. "Yon sailor is the
                        shrewdest man in the assembly."
                    But before Beltran could insist that Calcena was a match for any man Fray
                        Diego de Deza rose to his feet. Standing with his lean arms crossed on his
                        breast and his black eyes full of a far-seeing man's regard for a great one,
                        Deza took the defense of Cristobal Colon upon himself.
                    "Brother, our Italian mariner has not maintained that there are men upon the
                        other side of the globe not descended from Adam. It is not impossible for
                        men to pass the intervening ocean. In fact, it is the purpose of supporting
                        that theory which brings the travelled stranger before us."
                    Deza, thus taking up the wrangle, precipitated internal combat. The personnel
                        of the chapter broke along the regular lines of cleavage, those in favor of
                        the advancement of the church as a state and those in favor of the  preservation of its traditions intact. The
                        monastic members of the junta rose to their feet. They hurled quotations at
                        each other from saint and commentator, either out of manuscripts or from
                        memory—San Jerónimo, San Basilio, San Gregorio, San Ambrosio, San
                        Crisóstomo, and San Augustino. Occasionally one, closely pressed, brought up
                        some pagan authority which let in an avalanche of heathen commentators to
                        match wits with the holy men of Christendom. Cristobal Colon, with his hands
                        on his globe, stood between a torrent of monastic scholarship and waited,
                        silent, unnoticed, unvexed, and wholly amused.
                    "Deza cannot hold out much longer," Luis muttered. "It will be a simple
                        matter for Calcena to include the padre in the charge against Colon and
                        press on."
                    The friar by whom Calcena had sat during the hour and who had opened the
                        dispute was by this time mounted upon a form. He had a soaring voice and a
                        long arm, both of which he lifted above the council in accusation.
                    "The word of God declares the earth to be flat; the Italian says it is round.
                        Waste no more words. His defection is clear. Here and now I—"
                    At that dire moment, while the perspiration broke out on Beltran's forehead,
                        while Quintanilla held his breath, while Luis groaned in anguish, while the
                        modelled lips of the Italian parted in surprise and protest, while Deza
                        hurried forward with his hand in the air, there came an interruption from
                        the ecclesiastical high seat of the grand cardinal of Spain.
                    It was simply an old man clearing his throat to speak. But an instant silence
                        fell. The monk with his charge quivering upon the point of delivery stopped
                        with his arm lifted.
                    "Brethren," said the cardinal, "the holy men you quote were very good saints
                        but indifferent scientists. Our geography is already modified in opposition
                        to their views. We are come here to debate whether it is practicable  to send Colon upon this expedition; pray let
                        us have less theology and more facts. Worshipful Master Cardenas, how does
                        the state of this war with Granada control her Majesty's assumption of new
                        projects?"
                    Luis de Santangel fell back in his seat with a sigh of relief that was almost
                        a sob. Deza, wiping his rosy tonsure, sat down smiling in the most amiable
                        good feeling at the enraged Calcena. Every one of the friars, with the air
                        of men who had been chid at a folly, looked down at their laced fingers and
                        sat in orderly rows. Beltran turned an entirely illumined face to the
                        auditor.
                    "Are you ready to go?" he asked.
                    "No," the auditor returned in surprise. "This is not over."
                    Antonia had been saved. That was all for Beltran. But he realized that there
                        was still a claim on his interests by the Genoese. He looked at Colon,
                        standing very still. Over the Italian's face had stolen an expression of the
                        profoundest suspense that had not been there when his safety had been so
                        imminently imperilled the moment before. Into Beltran's heart at that
                        instant crept such sympathy for that tense look as he did not know he could
                        feel for a stranger. His anxiety returned; no longer for the gray-eyed maid,
                        but for the statuesque Italian who had staked all the efforts of a
                        magnificent life upon this junta's conclusion.
                    "May it please your eminence," responded the grand master of Santiago slowly
                        and thoughtfully, "the present state of hostilities is stagnant. The Moor is
                        well victualled, apparently peace reigns among the factions within the walls
                        of Granada, and the winter to come has always been a potent weapon against
                        the Christian army. It is plain that the Moors expect much of the weather.
                        Neither I nor my esteemed brother commanders are ready to say when this
                        siege may be pressed to a successful termination."
                    He paused, but it was evident that he had more to say. "As your eminence
                        knows, however, her Majesty  pushes many
                        matters successfully at the same time with this war. I doubt that the
                        projected expedition of the distinguished Genoese will add more to her
                        Majesty's burden of mind than she can well carry."
                    After another pause he added:
                    "There are causes which might interfere, but I believe I have answered your
                        eminence's question."
                    Colon, with his eyes upon the astrolabe, awaited.
                    "To my mind," said Hernando Talavera, bishop of Avila, "the worshipful master
                        of Santiago has touched upon the matter of least moment in connection with
                        the sailor's proposals. I do not feel that the Moorish war should interfere
                        with so magnificent a project if it were practical. The Genoese himself is
                        in doubt about what he should find, granting that the earth is
                        round—that India may be reached by sailing westward. To equip an
                        expedition which the state of our royal treasury may not easily allow, to
                        add to the dominion of Spain a few little barren isles with a feeble race of
                        savages thereon, were money ill spent. If the other side of the world were
                        as splendidly featured by lands and peoples as this side, it seems to me
                        that we should long since have encountered each other in some manner. In my
                        own mind, I doubt the profit in the expedition."
                    The master of Santiago slowly inclined his head. It was possible. Even
                        Colon's chilling face showed that the bishop's dampening suggestion
                        presented a possibility that he himself had faced.
                    Alessandro Geraldini, the Italian, objected to the statement of cost.
                    "Reverend sir and your grace, our sailor requires but twenty thousand
                        florins—a most insignificant sum," he said.
                    "A little sum, indeed," Talavera admitted, "but the crown is put to it to
                        meet matters of even lesser cost. From the lips of the royal secretary for
                        the Inquisition, I learn that the treasury is empty; that there are many
                        things of first importance held in abeyance because of  this distressing lack of funds which should have first
                        consideration above the slightly unsubstantial proposals of the
                        distinguished mariner from Genoa."
                    The cardinal shifted his position and glanced at Colon from under his bushy
                        white eyebrows.
                    "If these be facts," he said, "then they are only temporarily
                        insurmountable."
                    Colon made a negative motion with both hands. Wait! The accursed injunction
                        had made his life one long, tragic biding on time.
                    "On that account," said the master of Santiago, "her Majesty bade me instruct
                        this junta to bear in mind that its conclusions must not be considered
                        irrevocable, since the conditions which prevail against this expedition are
                        not permanent."
                    "Conditions have prevailed against this expedition for many years," said the
                        Genoese with the coldest composure. "However much longer they may prevail,
                        they are, in so far as they relate to me, with this junta terminated."
                    Talavera's austere countenance underwent an impatient change. The assumption
                        of option on the part of the humble Italian sailor offended him.
                    "Her Majesty's wish," said the cardinal, "is expressly averse to such a
                        conclusion."
                    "The years go on," the sailor said. "My appointed labor must be done. If I am
                        denied this day I shall take it as a sign that this is not the land that God
                        hath selected to support me in my work. My theories cannot be wrong. Christ
                        always speeds the right. Failure, then, lies only in the instrument. The
                        inspiration came to me; my labor was foretold by John at Patmos. There can
                        be no question that I am the man for the task. If
                        Spain—fails—Spain is the rejected one. I must go on until
                        I find God's chosen king. Your attitude leads me to believe that further
                        hope is vain."
                    He ceased, and in the pause it seemed as if his final words became an appeal
                        that heightened in poignancy  until the nobles
                        and the prelates stirred in discomfort and uneasiness.
                    But there came no answer.
                    Colon turned so that his face was toward his friends: the auditor, the young
                        knight, and the converted Jew. Upon that straight, white countenance they
                        saw the superhuman hopes of a superhuman soul confront destruction and,
                        while they watched him, perish one by one.
                    "My God," Luis de Santangel whispered suddenly in the ears of the two
                        courtiers in front of him, "I cannot endure this!"
                    He hurried out of the pavilion. There was a stir and a rustle and a subdued
                        resumption of conversation as the adjourned junta rose.
                    But when Beltran Ponce de Leon stood up Cristobal Colon had disappeared.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV
                    THE DAY OF DEPARTURE
                    "THERE are many things of lesser importance," the King
                        said, terminating his interview with Don Beltran an hour after the junta had
                        adjourned, "that I can do with the great sum which must be spent upon the
                        Guadalquivir. But the welfare of the land we have before acquiring new
                        territory. In a measure, then, much hangs upon your sole decision. It is not
                        needful for me to charge you to keep your integrity in mind."
                    Beltran made his obeisance and withdrew from the royal presence.
                    The King's last words had smitten him like a whiplash. Fair and just as his
                        recommendation of the improvement might be, it would be actuated,
                        nevertheless, by an ulterior motive for the protection of Antonia, and the
                        honor of the Ponces was tyrannical.
                    The interview had been held in the Queen's pavilion immediately after the
                        royal nooning, and Doña Isabella, ceremoniously conducted by a party of her
                        ladies, was emerging from her private apartments into the great salon.
                    Beltran halted until she should pass him, making his obeisance with his eyes
                        turned inward upon his own soul. He suddenly roused at seeing the procession
                        stop and separate, and then he observed that the Queen was signing him to
                        approach.
                    "To-day you are to depart upon my lord's mission to Sevilla—is it
                        not so?" she asked. "Be assured, Don Beltran, that we are not so poor but
                        the King may indulge  himself with a pet
                        whimsy. He has led a straight and pleasureless life. I would he had a joy
                        before he loses the desire for it in his old age. Do not disappoint him. If
                        the improvement is possible, depend upon it, one way or another the Queen
                        will see that the money to pay for it is provided."
                    Thus Isabella removed from him his self-reproach.
                    In the flush of relief and admiration for the unselfish Queen, Beltran was
                        impelled for a moment with a headlong idea of unbosoming the whole story and
                        enlisting her in the behalf of Antonia. And, as if to add further force to
                        the impulse, the sound of a retinue passing attracted the Queen's eyes.
                    Beltran glanced out at the lifted entrance of the tent in time to see the
                        litter of Doña Marta pass, followed by her train of servants and a long line
                        of sumpter-mules.
                    The exit of her former lady in waiting from the campo necessarily brought to
                        Isabella some thought on Antonia, and Beltran had diligently to call to mind
                        that he was only a simple knight, already a candidate for honors at the
                        crown's hands, and under trial for efficiency, to keep him from making an
                        appeal.
                    After he had been dismissed and had left the Queen's pavilion he asked
                        himself if it should ever be wise to appeal to Isabella. She had maintained
                        an attitude of strict neutrality in Ferdinand's personal affairs when she
                        could not support him, and she had never opposed him except when the King
                        had encroached upon her own rights.
                    So, dismissing the hope almost as soon as it had arisen, he fell back upon
                        his own resources.
                    He had a letter to send to Ali Dordoux in Malaga, relative to investing his
                        fortune in merchant ships pursuant to the plan thought out long before the
                        previous night—even as early as the first date of his departure
                        from the set line of thought of his time.
                    He was preparing to place his fortune out of reach of a royal borrower or
                        confiscation by the Inquisition in  the event
                        that he incurred the penalties of that institution from whatever cause.
                    Gold and silver could not be exported from Spain, either in bullion or in
                        coin, under the penalty of the law. He could not send his money away in the
                        form in which his uncle would deliver it to him when the marques purchased
                        the young man's lands. There was but one way to do it. He would send his
                        gold to Ali Dordoux at Malaga, where the Moor would invest it in ships and
                        merchandise of Spanish manufacture and send the flotilla to Tangiers. There
                        Ali Hacen, son of the Moor who had been Beltran's captor, would assume for a
                        commission the stewardship of young Ponce's fortune and continue the trade
                        on waters out of reach of the Inquisition.
                    He settled upon the Galway man as the best possible messenger and set out to
                        look for the Irishman.
                    Colon's tragic face began to haunt him. That Calcena had been defeated and
                        the Genoese publicly taken under the patronage of the cardinal was no
                        mitigation of the effect of the junta's conclusion upon the sailor. He shook
                        off the last vision he had of the Genoese, and noted that his retainers were
                        already slouching in their saddles before his tent, prepared to begin the
                        journey to the Guadalquivir.
                    But as he drew near his tent his squire met him.
                    "A pair of foot-soldiers from the barraca are within," the youth said. "They
                        insisted that you had sent for them."
                    Beltran frowned at his squire without comprehension.
                    "Was there aught to prevent their waiting without?" he demanded as he strode
                        into his quarters.
                    But as he entered, a man rose in sight at a far corner from behind some rolls
                        of baggage. A second crouched beside him. Beltran recognized the Irishman
                        and understood the cause of the invasion at a single thought. He motioned to
                        his squire, who retired at once.
                    "The King's inquisitor has been stalking you," Beltran said in a low
                        voice.
                    
                    "Save that my heels were swifter than the eyes of his police I should be
                        elsewhere this minute and a deal less comfortable," responded the Galway
                        man.
                    "Upon the matter about which you and I talked some time ago?"
                    "That, and naught else, please your grace. But he must have his excuse, and
                        that is to be my affection for a heretic."
                    Beltran indicated the second man, who stood up from his hiding-place.
                    "That man?" he asked.
                    "My gossip and shipmate, Arthur Law, of England."
                    The Englishman took off his hood with both hands and the Irishman went on
                        with his explanation.
                    "In merry England, they do not make such admiration about your church habits
                        as they do in Spain, and my friend here is nearly as good a Catholic as
                        Mahoun. 'Tis a Lollard, you are now, are you not, Arthur? Well, no matter.
                        The word heresy covers your irreligion as well as a monk's hair covers his
                        scalp. Ever since the interesting day of your rescue, your grace, the evil
                        eye of the grave-robbing Calcena has been watching us both, and we are as
                        good as done for!"
                    "We? Are you a heretic, too?" Beltran inquired, with a kind of amusement
                        struggling over his disapprobation.
                    "The saints forfend!" the Galway man exclaimed. "An Irishman is born with a
                        paternoster in his mouth, though he be foaled in heathendom. But the
                        merciful arm of the Inquisition reaches the friend and family of them
                        deceased at its request, and I am thinking that I will not be left to mourn
                        him long."
                    "That you will not," said Beltran conclusively, "because it is you that
                        Calcena wants in the first place. Quiá! This is bad! There is no hope for
                        you but in flight. I owe you protection, but I am in nowise in debt to your
                        Lollard friend. He must do for himself. I take risk enough in impeding the
                        Inquisition in your case."
                    
                    "Sir, you will call me vexatious, but I do beseech your aid for him. It is
                        because of me, he came under suspicion, and because of you that I am run to
                        ground. If any of us owe a debt, we owe it all around. Prithee stretch your
                        charity and lend my friend a hand."
                    Moved between admiration for the Galway man and a resentment against the
                        coercion that he was working on his protector, Beltran lowered at the
                        pair.
                    "You mean that I should go further than your word and believe that if I
                        refuse to aid your friend, you will abide to die with him?" he said.
                    "Sir, if it please your grace, that would be a sore tax upon friendship, and
                        one I would not see tested, to my shame or to a fair lady's peril!" the
                        Irishman responded.
                    "Nay, then," said Beltran, "I have no choice but to shield you! I go hence to
                        Sevilla even now. You shall go with me. And once you come to Cadiz, go to
                        some other land in God's name."
                    He summoned the leader of his squad and ordered mail-lined jacks and salets
                        to be provided for the extra men-at-arms. Baggage strapped upon
                        sumpter-mules, his tent struck and sent away to be stored among the camp
                        supplies, Beltran mounted, and his train set in motion.
                    They passed up the Camino Estrecho into the Camino Ancho, and turning the
                        corner, met Lerin, afoot, followed by his squire.
                    Having the incident of the white rose yet in mind, the conde passed without
                        returning Beltran's salute, and his eye, avoiding the young knight's,
                        lighted with casual recognition upon the sturdy figure of the Irishman
                        marching among the engineer's retainers.
                    Near sunset, the party which had moved no faster than the foot-soldiers could
                        walk came in sight of a man on the road ahead of them. A little boy lagged
                        at his hand.
                    As Beltran recognized the man, a wrench of reluctance  pained his soul. Gladly would he have avoided the Genoese,
                        but, arming himself with charity, he prepared to do what he could for
                        Colon.
                    He ordered one of the sumpter-mules unpacked and its load to be distributed
                        among the others of the train, and then rode up beside the Genoese.
                    But Colon's spirit was not amenable to little kindnesses. He refused the
                        mule, the offer of the protection of the train, and the purse which Beltran
                        would have pressed upon him. He was too deadly hurt to be handled except in
                        his own way.
                    "Oh, be of hope!" Beltran urged him. "Her Majesty is your friend and pupil.
                        Give not over to despair thus. Above all things, go not away from
                        Spain—away from the ward and counsel of your friends."
                    "I have taxed my friends too long," Colon resisted. "I can no longer remain a
                        dependent."
                    "Nay, no one feels a burden!" Beltran declared. "Rest! Wait! Remember this
                        war engages her Majesty's attention and all her revenues. But the end is in
                        sight. In gratitude, then, she will turn to her duty toward the spread of
                        the faith. Wait a little; have patience, you who have waited so long, so
                        patiently."
                    "Your heart is gold, Don Beltran, but your words fly over me."
                    The little, golden-haired boy glanced across Beltran's vision.
                    "What will you do with this child?" he asked.
                    "I shall leave him with my sister-in-law in Huelva."
                    "Huelva! What a journey for such youthful feet!"
                    "I am answerable for his presence here. My reparation shall be to carry the
                        burden of his care and advancement."
                    Beltran shook his head hopelessly. There was no softening the relentless
                        attitude of the Italian.
                    "At least," he said, "tell me where you may be found until you quit
                        Spain."
                    Colon made an indefinite motion with his hand.
                    
                    "Miguel Muliar, of Huelva, will have the last information of me. He is my
                        brother-in-law."
                    Beltran then said his farewells and rode on, leaving behind him the
                        disheartened sailor trudging in the dust that the heels of his retinue had
                        raised.
                    The incident took much of the zest out of Beltran's journey. He could not
                        help reflecting that the King, Don Ferdinand, might have better spent his
                        gold than to use it to have credit that he need not share with his
                        Queen.
                    By nightfall he was well within the heart of the stony hills, whose rocks
                        still reflected the heat of the day, while down the chasms and passes swept
                        that kind of a wind that is characteristically the wind of the
                        mountains—whistling, thin, and edged with a blade of ice.
                    There was little choice of a spot for a camp, except within hearing of the
                        purl and eddy of a brook. There was some forage along the borders of the
                        stream where it crossed levels, and he halted his retinue.
                    While the party was making camp, Beltran noted a red glow over the head of a
                        great rock deeper in the hills.
                    The country was still unsettled and a fire in the Sierras might mean as well
                        the camp of an enemy as that of Christians. Beltran took his squire and went
                        toward the light to reconnoitre.
                    Climbing the shoulder of the rock, he looked down into a tiny level out of
                        which the cliff shot skyward as bluff as the walls of a city. There were a
                        dozen pines in the little flat, ruddy among their lower boughs with the
                        light of a great fire and wreathed about their crowns with its pungent
                        smoke. Directly beneath Beltran's lookout was a tent, and before that sat a
                        woman, alone, in the full light of the fire.
                    Almost as soon as Beltran had satisfied himself that it was Doña Marta he
                        heard the hammer of hoofs on outcropping rock, and a body of retainers under
                        the  banner of the Conde de Lerin appeared on
                        the hillside at the edge of the flat.
                    Seeing the man who had been most concerned in the unhappy downfall of the
                        widow approach the camp, Beltran made no move to depart. He told himself he
                        should know what happened.
                    The conde's train halted and dismounted, and set about making camp. But the
                        conde left his fellows to their labor and, entering the shade of the pines,
                        emerged into the firelit space directly below the watcher on the rock.
                    Doña Marta raised her head at the sound of the conde's footsteps and sprang
                        then to her feet.
                    She spoke, and Lerin halted suddenly at the tips of her fingers as she
                        extended her arm at full length before her.
                    His retort was in French, but she answered him in Spanish.
                    "It is time," she said. "Had it ever been as easy to say when I would have
                        your company and how I would have it, I should be a happier woman than I am
                        this night."
                    At that Lerin began to pitch questions at her and to answer them himself
                        irritably, argumentatively, sometimes angrily, sometimes with
                        perplexity.
                    "Whatever profit you sought to make of it," he was saying once, when the wind
                        blew his words toward Beltran, "I am at a loss to know. Did you expect to
                        hurt me with the King? Damage my standing among the courtiers? Faith, you
                        could have done that so much easier by any other charge. Did you take leave
                        of your senses, Marta? See what you have done for yourself! See what
                        dishonor you have brought upon an innocent child!"
                    "How little you know your Antonia!" she interrupted.
                    "Oh, then you meant to set her unalterably against me? Well, that might
                        serve, but unhappily for you and her—and me, my dear, it is the
                        King's will and not Doña Antonia's that must prevail."
                    
                    At this the widow turned as if to retire into her tent. He stopped her with a
                        hand on her arm, which he withdrew hastily when she wheeled about.
                    "Be reasonable," he continued persuasively, and drawing nearer, he lowered
                        his voice and began to lay down his words with a whole hand upon the palm of
                        the other. Once, when she interrupted with a quick, menacing movement toward
                        him, he drew away and changed his manner. It was evident that he reshaped
                        his words into an appeal which he reinforced with his extended hands.
                    "Come," said Beltran to his squire, "I have had better entertainment. Let us
                        go back to our honest ruffians."
                    They pushed their way through bushes, down rocky slopes into their own rough
                        camping ground again. The squire, who plodded behind the knight, said
                        finally:
                    "What made El Conde so to flinch when she turned upon him now and again?
                        Could it be that so stout a man as he stood in fear of a woman?"
                    "Yes, son, with the same fear that an elephant has of a mouse. Methinks if
                        she had at him, he would have hallooed for help."
                    The squire chuckled quietly.
                    "But I thought she wanted him herself," he added presently.
                    "And she will get him, likewise," Beltran declared.
                    "How so? Does not the King mean to wed him to Doña Antonia de Aragon?"
                    "Ay, son, and that he does," Beltran said calmly, "but Don Ferdinand is only
                        a king while Doña Marta is a widow!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV
                    THE HONOR OF A SPANIARD
                    ANTONIA and all that gorgeous company that had ridden out
                        of the campo three days before were, in Sevilla, guests under the hospitable
                        roof of the Marques de Cadiz.
                    Earnestly as Beltran's youth and love of pleasure called him to linger in his
                        uncle's house, he resolutely took his departure before dawn on the morning
                        after his arrival. He had not once looked upon the face of her who furnished
                        him his sole interest in life besides himself and before himself.
                    One day's rapid riding brought him to Cadiz, where he obtained passage for
                        the Irishman and the Englishman upon a Portuguese caravel. He next
                        despatched a message to Ali Dordoux. Then he returned, passed Sevilla with a
                        longing look at her noble quarter, and journeyed on to Cordova, where he
                        launched a mediæval felucca of five oars upon the brown bosom of the great
                        river.
                    The instruments for his use were few and primitive. The planispheric
                        astrolabe was the most complicated, and this, with a plummet and line,
                        constituted his equipment, as yet not sufficiently developed to be separated
                        in nomenclature from those used by the navigator.
                    In the time of Ferdinand and Isabella the Guadalquivir had ceased to merit
                        its title of pre-eminence which had become it so fitly while the Roman was
                        building, the Moor improving, and before the Spaniard, holding in contempt
                        the industry and genius of his infidel predecessors, had neglected.
                    
                    Between the walls of masonry, topped with beautiful balustrades wherever the
                        demesnes of a mansion came down to the water's edge, or some convent or
                        public work incorporated the bed of the stream within its domains, the river
                        flowed deep and rapidly. But without these were stretches where two
                        centuries of silt deposit had so filled up the stream that it was hardly
                        more than knee-deep, except at hightide on the shores of the Atlantic many
                        leagues distant. At times vast islands of herbage rooted in water furnished
                        pasture for wading Andalusian herds and overlaid the stream with green. Only
                        such merchantmen as drafted less than a fathom could reach Cordova and even
                        then there were seasons when such vessels approached under hazard.
                    Magnificently as the Spanish conqueror had maintained those works of the Moor
                        which he could convert into houses for himself, his public deliberations,
                        his King, and his God, he had lifted an extravagant and foolhardy nose at
                        the devices which had been effected to make labor light and living
                        comfortable. Within the precincts of the city were solid stone wharfs and
                        staging for landing-places which proved that the bed of the river had been
                        wider and deeper, and so visited by vessels of much greater tonnage in the
                        time of the thriftier peoples. There were straight, dry, trenches leading
                        toward, but cut off from, the river by the processes of erosion and grown up
                        with shrubs and bearded with grass. These had once been canals constructed
                        to avoid the loitering sinuosities of the stream. Here and there were
                        outcroppings of regular masonry underlying centuries of alluvial and humus
                        that had protected the valley against the frequent and tempestuous overflow
                        of the river, while great, tall aqueducts printed in frail escallops against
                        the dusty sky of the summer still led refreshment to thirsty fields across
                        deep ravines.
                    It was Ferdinand's thought that whatever had been done could be done again,
                        to his own glory, to the preeminence of Sevilla, the relief of Cordova, the
                        benefit  of Andalusia, and the general
                        prosperity of the interior. His favor with his Andalusians was to come up
                        the chocolate waterway of the Guadalquivir.
                    There, however, was the real problem of the King's projected plan.
                    Once upon the plains below Sevilla, with the blue haunt of the hill-country
                        in the remotest background, the soil lay so level, so supine that the muddy
                        stream flowed upon it rather than through it. Upon this unalterable flat the
                        waters began to yield more and more to the dropless level. Broader the
                        spread of the stream, slower the motion of its flow, wetter and less
                        inviting became its shore-line. Hundreds of wasted acres supersaturated
                        began to increase to thousands. Tillable lands soon ceased to join each
                        other and became islands, that one by one drowned and became the hopeless
                        marshes—Las Marismas.
                    Persistently Beltran's felucca fared on through these, under their own
                        intimate cloudland of mist at morning and at night; through their leagues of
                        fat-leaved golden samphire and jungles of huge, flowering, reedy grasses,
                        overhung by millions of screaming wild fowl. Going astray through choked
                        blind canalizos, skirting treacherous reaches of syrupy quicksands, and
                        suffering always the plague of insects and miasma and intense, moist
                        destructive heat, he explored the marshes, heart and border. Finally,
                        following endless feintings and reduplications, coiling and recoiling,
                        sinuous to the very superlative, through which the river seeped, he was
                        borne out through a salty waste of sand and so into the restless chafing of
                        the Atlantic.
                    At the end of his journey he had covered a tremendous length of river to be
                        dredged and deepened. It would restore thousands of acres of tillage to the
                        Andalusian peasant and lead the ocean with all its fabled armadas of wealth
                        to the doors of Cordova and Sevilla. It was a magnificent undertaking, and
                        his youth contemplated it with alternate sensations of bravado and
                        dismay.
                    
                    He confessed his admiration for Ferdinand, but as he crossed the stretch of
                        sands with its convents and its salt frames between the mouth of the
                        Guadalquivir and Cadiz, he saw in that marble port, with its Parian
                        miradors, its impregnable walls, and its quiet bay, an excellence to be
                        surpassed before Sevilla could be made the first port of Spain.
                    So he took the Roman road across the stretch of plains and up the hills
                        through the scattered pine forests and past bright-colored little villages
                        that all this labor was to benefit, back to the Sultana of the South.
                    As the highway approached the Guadalquivir, a league or two from the capital,
                        he noted a galley flying a merchant's pennant spinning in a froth of her own
                        raising toward Sevilla. A padrone in the flowing draperies of a Moor stood
                        at the stem-post, and Beltran remarked the visitor with satisfaction.
                    "Yonder craft is Ali Dordoux's. That—by the mass!—is your
                        infidel's eye to business. Catch me, a Spaniard, answering my call with such
                        despatch!"
                    With his eye on the galley, his mind on his task before him, and his heart in
                        Sevilla, the complication of interest suddenly suggested an amazing thing to
                        him, at which he yearned in a very anguish of wishfulness.
                    "Por Dios! Were ever the lines laid so sweet for a runaway with my lady!" he
                        sighed.
                    He reached the gates of Sevilla long after the flying galley had disappeared
                        within the walls of the fortifications that came down to the water's edge.
                        He pushed his horse to its best pace through the narrow, stony streets, now
                        filling with bravos and waistcoaters, the merrymakers by night, and
                        presently rode up to the mansion of the Marques de Cadiz. This was a
                        blank-fronted, double-wardered, fortified city stronghold that stood like a
                        very lord among its vassals, gray and aloof from the simpler residences.
                    He entered by the postern gate, with his eyes on the many lights that
                        glimmered from all the stories of the  great
                        house. A sentry admitted him, and he turned up the slanting, stone-paved
                        road past the kennels, raising an outbreak from the dogs, toward the area
                        before the stables. There a groom took his horse, and he passed into the
                        house of his uncle, the marques.
                    A great hall led through, past many solid doors and carved panels, into an
                        open courtyard aglow with torches stuck in sconces upon the surrounding
                        galleries. Overhead an awning had been rolled away, and the starshine was
                        darkly reflected in the pool of a great fountain.
                    Underfoot was the marvellous inlay of a Moorish pavement. Scattered over the
                        area were huge pottery tubs with growing orange-trees, oleanders, and
                        sword-leaved plantains. About the court circled a gallery in two tiers with
                        richly decorated Moorish horseshoe arches, upheld by slender double columns,
                        with foliated capitals. Beneath these arches within the house walls were
                        heavy doors, reinforced with brass, and brightly illuminated, grilled
                        windows.
                    It was home to Beltran. Long absent as he had been, and imposing and austere
                        as were its manorial splendors, it was the house of his fathers and now the
                        shelter over the head of Antonia de Aragon.
                    As his spurred heels fell upon the pavement, he realized that he had
                        encountered no portero at the doors. He recalled that he had seen no servant
                        but the warder and the groom. Then he became aware of commotion and the
                        angry, excited voices of boys. Now and again the expostulations of men and
                        women could be distinguished.
                    Presently he saw two figures in white flash in from the gardens and skim
                        along the gallery toward the door that opened at the foot of the stair
                        leading to the women's apartments.
                    "Francesca and Leonor," he said to himself. "Now I wonder if there is
                        mischief afoot in the house?"
                    By a sudden crescendo of alarm and menace, the commotion  within amounted to a conflict, punctuated by the din of
                        falling objects. With great rapidity the windows of the mansion began to
                        grow dark.
                    There was scramble and outcry about the doors in the upper and lower
                        galleries and clusters of pages burst through. Running along the pavements,
                        they knocked down torches with their lighting staves, or leaping, damped the
                        flames with their bare hands. Everywhere was the crash and tinkle of falling
                        lamps. Two pages sprang at the guy-ropes and pulled the big awning across
                        the court and fastened the line with countless knots.
                    Beltran, who had laid hand on his dagger and started toward the inner hall of
                        the house, stopped at the appearance of the waspish army and laughed
                        heartily. It was a revolt of the pages against some objectionable rule
                        passed upon them by their superiors. This was their time-honored method of
                        expressing their rebellion. Beltran remembered the part that he had taken in
                        many a one when he was a lad in her Majesty's service.
                    Then he caught sight of Antonia entering the court from the way Francesca and
                        Leonor had come. The last torch fell with a crash and a hiss, and a
                        resounding darkness lay over the great mansion of the Marques de Cadiz.
                    Then the pages scattered, shouting in the direction of the storerooms to
                        prevent the stewards from obtaining a fresh supply of candles and pitch
                        knots. Others set up a noisy patrol round and round the galleries and
                        through the house to check the arrival of lights from any other source.
                    Retaining an image of Antonia's location as he had seen her last, Beltran
                        crossed the court to the gallery and reached her side as she groped her way
                        through the pairs of boisterous boys and the darkness toward the women's
                        wing.
                    "Stay, Doña Antonia," he said, taking her hand. "Be my ward until this
                        mischief subsides.
                    
                    "Need I tell you that I am your knight?" he added when she hesitated.
                    "I know you to be Don Beltran," she said in a low voice, "but how shall I
                        return to the marquesa?"
                    "Glad as the marquesa may be to see you," he returned, "she is not so
                        desperately bent on having a word with you as I am. Come, let us lose
                        ourselves in the monte bajo, away from this skirmish. It is the best of
                        strategies when your forces are outnumbered."
                    She permitted him to lead her out to the fountain, where he spread his capa
                        on the broad lip of the basin and bade her sit.
                    "I have but this moment ridden in from Cadiz," he said. "I have not yet put
                        off my spurs. It would be seemly for me to have waited until I had removed
                        the dust of the road before I spoke with you, but the fortunate minute will
                        not wait. And so I must talk with you as I am. And you so cool and sweet in
                        this fragrant court! I know how a desert feels beside a watered garden."
                    "You are in time for the wedding to-morrow," she said.
                    "Good! But what ails our donzels?"
                    "They are angry for just cause," she answered. "The Infanta has persuaded the
                        Queen to enforce the order for mourning even in the wedding liveries of the
                        pages. The lads were in high hopes of a return to their pretty plumage, but
                        not so! They may wear white serge for the wedding, but thereafter it is to
                        be sackcloth for sixty days."
                    "Oh, folly! Serge at a wedding and sackcloth at court! Well, let them smash
                        the lamps if they will. I owe them largess for it. They have given me a
                        chance to speak at a fortunate time what I would to my lady."
                    Along the gallery at this moment came a lighted taper. The pages on patrol
                        made a rush, wavered, scattered out, and abandoned the attack, retiring well
                        to another segment of the colonnade. Lerin, bearing a candle that he  had rescued from the wreck of some lamp,
                        serene in the consciousness of his imposing stature and strength, proceeded
                        toward the double doors that opened into the grande sala.
                    Footfalls passed close to the fountain at which Antonia and Beltran sat. The
                        darkness gave up to the faint radiance of Lerin's candle the golden damsel
                        and Don Garcilaso de la Vega.
                    The gentle murmur of the renowned cavalier's voice reached the pair sitting
                        on the broad lip of the basin.
                    Suddenly the hero of the Moorish war raised that soft, melancholy voice and
                        called to Lerin. The conde on the point of entering the sala halted, raised
                        his candle over his head, and, seeing whom Garcilaso was conducting, came
                        quickly forward. Under the swiftly approaching light, the perfect face of
                        the golden damsel was seen to lose some of its contented expression and
                        assume one of inquiry.
                    "My lord conde," said Garcilaso, "you have a light. Doña Sancha will feel
                        more secure in your care. I pray you conduct her to her apartments."
                    "By her leave, to my delight," said the conde. He offered the golden damsel
                        his arm, turned her away from the bowing Garcilaso, and, suiting his step to
                        her reluctant one, led her toward the darkness surrounding the door to the
                        woman's wing.
                    As she passed, Antonia saw that there was an expression of hurt and
                        indignation on the otherwise faultless countenance of the lovely Sancha.
                    Antonia smiled grimly. Since the golden one had insisted on trying
                        conclusions with Don Garcilaso, she was infallibly getting her lesson.
                    "I have been seeking an opportunity to use your dowry," Beltran was saying,
                        "and ere I report to the King, I am come to take counsel with my lady. I was
                        despatched to Sevilla to see if his Majesty might make of her the first
                        seaport of Europe. I have spent all this time upon the Guadalquivir. It is
                        no excursion for a  holiday, but as a cure for
                        Spanish pride and as a lesson in respect for the industry and wisdom of the
                        pagans and infidels who have gone before us, it is right forceful. I return
                        with my crest lowered and my mind humbly willing to hold fast to that which
                        is good even if the favor invoked upon its beginnings were that of Jupiter
                        Ammon, or Allah."
                    "Is the King's plan possible?" she asked.
                    "It is possible but not necessary. Yet it is a magnificent project. The pearl
                        of Andalusia will be a fit monument for a King. Don Ferdinand has only to do
                        once more and at greater expense the work of the Roman and the Moor. He has
                        neither the hands nor the skill nor the fortune. But it can be done."
                    In the fragrant darkness, with the pages still trooping about them, he knew
                        that she sighed with relief.
                    "My first profit," he went on, "in recommending this work, sweet lady, lies
                        in the protection it affords you from a hateful marriage. Yet I do but stop
                        one of the sources from which the King hopes to draft your dowry. I fear me
                        that while I place my hand upon one leak, a breach will open elsewhere.
                    "But there are other ways of insuring safety to you," he added. "Of one, I
                        may not speak, lest you look upon me as bloodthirsty and ruthless, when I
                        would have you always regard me in the fairest light. Of the
                        other—but my heart misgives me!" he broke off suddenly.
                    When next he spoke, she felt his breath upon her cheek.
                    "Doña Antonia, is Ponce too poor a makeshift for a noble lord to be
                        considered as a refuge from this unwelcome marriage?" he asked.
                    Her startled silence was too eloquent of conflicting feelings for him not to
                        sense it.
                    "It is a great trust I ask you to have in me," he added quickly. "Doubt not,
                        I realize it. But the conditions are such that we might escape to Tangiers
                        and  be wedded without hinderance—if
                        you can only bring yourself to have faith in my devotion to your
                        welfare."
                    "You feel too deep a debt to me," she finally said with hesitation.
                    "Yes; I might have known it!" he exclaimed. "Do not call my devotion to you
                        the payment of a debt! Had I foreseen this, I had never let you know that I
                        knew. Dear Doña Antonia, my oath as a knight bids me protect damsels in
                        whatever distress, but were I a raging painim who never had heard of
                        chivalry, the outline of this face that my eyes can see even in the dark
                        would bid me serve and serve!"
                    The vision of the incident of the white rose; the kiss of Leonor; the
                        marquesa's accusation of gallantry against him—all this sprang up
                        at an evil moment before her undecided heart.
                    Evil, indeed, that moment! The all that was to follow hung upon the influence
                        of that disheartening retrospect.
                    "That is a marvellous good eye," she said. "Look me through these stone walls
                        hereabout, and see if they have reached the candles yet."
                    But in his own heart he recalled her glowing face when she had looked up to
                        see him covering her with his cloak on that windy day. He knew that
                        well-feigned sarcasm was feigned, indeed.
                    "Dear lady, if there were the light of love for me within these stone walls,
                        believe that I should see through them fairly."
                    She arose at this.
                    "If you can see so well, help me within. Methinks the donzels have made it
                        dark for the night."
                    "Then take my arm. These boys are worse than heathen. I shall walk with you
                        to your door. I have not been in the women's wing since I was a
                        nursling."
                    They crossed the court, passed into the blackness under the gallery and
                        reached the doors, pushed them open, and stepped within. They could hear a
                        wrangle  here and there over the great dark
                        interior and knew that the guard of the pages was perfect. Moving closer to
                        help her mount the stairs, he drew her hand through his arm and held it.
                    "Doña Antonia, it is the best of occasions for us! You have not answered me.
                        Before the house would know that you were missing, we could reach Cadiz. Ali
                        Dordoux is at the wharf with a fast boat, having tied up there for an
                        interview with me to-morrow. Out upon me! The convenience of the hour takes
                        up the speech which I should be shaping into avowals to you! You will still
                        call it obligation, while I seek fruitlessly for more words to prove how
                        propitious the chance!"
                    "Since you so seriously insist, Don Beltran," she said, "I will answer you.
                        You urge a leap that gives one a long fall, should one miss his
                        landing-place. It is no risk for either of us to take with so little
                        heed."
                    This discouraging speech confirmed Beltran in the cause of her reluctance. He
                        knew now that he had her confidence to gain, first of all; he had no doubt
                        of the state of her heart, with that small brown hand so unsteady in his
                        own.
                    At the top of the climb, when they had reached a wide, drafty hall filled
                        with solid night and indistinct murmurs from the equally dark dormitory of
                        the noble women guests, he paused.
                    "We face a perplexity, my dear," he said gently. "It will not grow simpler
                        but worse. Now is the time to act. I am sure of my own heart, Doña Antonia;
                        believe in me as I believe in you, and let me carry you away,
                        incontinently."
                    "Pray you, let me go, Don Beltran," she asked, drawing away from him. "Give
                        over my defense. I do not ask it of you! It leads us on to grief, and if you
                        halt now you are safe."
                    "Forgive me, then," he said stoutly, "for I must transgress your wish. I
                        shall not give you up, when all that stands between us is your doubt in
                        me."
                    
                    He waited until she had disappeared within the shelter of a door and then he
                        turned down into the darkness. He knew that once he assumed the commission
                        to make Sevilla great, he pledged his honor to the King. He knew likewise
                        that it would furnish the clearest proof of his sincerity to Antonia. There
                        would be no running away to Tangiers till the Guadalquivir had been tamed.
                        And should the pressure of Antonia's dilemma become critical within that
                        period, he would be required to maintain his honor and protect his love at
                        the same time.
                    With a shrug of his shoulders, he admitted he was venturing between the paws
                        of the lion. But he resolved to recommend the improvement of the great
                        river.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI
                    THE CITY OF SANTA FE
                    THE politic Ferdinand knew exactly how to turn each of his
                        acts to account in furthering his popularity throughout Spain. Though
                        Beltran Ponce de Leon had been despatched to Sevilla to report upon the
                        practicability of making Sevilla the first port of Europe, that Ferdinand
                        might leave a monument to himself, the wily monarch allowed it to be bruited
                        about that his sole purpose was to reward Andalusia for the fidelity of her
                        troops and her exceptional sacrifices during the Moorish war.
                    Within an hour after the council upon the improvement of the Guadalquivir had
                        passed upon the project, the whole campo had it, and the barraca was
                        shouting itself hoarse in honor of the King.
                    In the imagination of the light-hearted and enthusiastic people, they saw the
                        great fleets of the world move in stately procession up to the wharfs of
                        Sevilla and Cordova and the fabulous wealth of the Orient discharged at
                        their doors. They saw their little plots of earth extend to great estates
                        that bore the sky-line upon their boundaries, and every hill was crowned
                        with their castles. Next in order for applause after the King came the young
                        knight who was to work all this magic, Don Beltran Ponce de Leon.
                    Good feeling was common everywhere except in two instances. Don Alonso de
                        Quintanilla, who had stood in this council and had heard Don Beltran
                        recommend that which he had been particularly charged not to advise,
                        suffered for the space of one minute an attack of  doubt in the young knight. Was it possible that this son of an
                        honorable line was willing to sacrifice friendship and the real welfare of
                        the realm for a selfish ambition?
                    But the spasm of doubt in Don Beltran which seized the Conde de Lerin lasted
                        longer and did greater havoc to the peace of mind of that magnificent
                        gentilhombre.
                    After the council was adjourned, the conde approached the King on the subject
                        of his wedding and Antonia's dowry, with so much choler in his eye that
                        Ferdinand, who was willing to have favorites but not to be ruled by them,
                        saw fit to chasten his angry nephew.
                    "I must make these improvements," he assured Don Jaime. "The advance of the
                        nation cannot be halted in order to gain new territory. Let me finish this
                        war before I plunge myself into another with France. Nothing is paramount to
                        the welfare of the cities that have supported me nor to that of the army
                        from which I must yet ask a great deal. Are you not comfortable, nephew? Is
                        your love impatient?"
                    "Sire," said Lerin, "we may not hope that the merriment of the campo will
                        spare either of us."
                    He followed that statement with a succinct and somewhat French-flavored
                        account of what had befallen him at Sevilla on his arrival. Antonia had not
                        publicly slighted him, but when he had pressed an interview he encountered
                        so emphatic an outline of his course of conduct laid down by her that he had
                        been moved to admit that their engagement was void. The mediæval man was
                        habitually of frail morals, and so long as he was valiant and gallant his
                        reputation rarely impaired his popularity. In the estimation of the times
                        Antonia's objection to Lerin was considered flimsy and far-fetched. But that
                        she had set down her small foot and refused pointedly to have aught to do
                        with him awakened the native love of laughter in the Spanish people. It was
                        a petrifying experience for the conde to be laughed at. And when he informed
                        Ferdinand  that the derision of the campo was
                        including the King he meant to arouse in the monarch the same wrath that he
                        felt.
                    Thus enlightened, Ferdinand had the double care of admonishing Antonia while
                        he held in check his nephew's presumption on royal favor.
                    It had been a hot, still day, and a busy one for the monarch. All the morning
                        had been taken up with a discussion of Don Beltran's report on the
                        Guadalquivir. And the outcome of that deliberation insured for Sevilla and
                        Cordova all that the King had promised his troops upon the honor of Don
                        Beltran Ponce de Leon, with his perpetual banishment as penalty for
                        failure.
                    In the afternoon the King had held council with his commanders relative to a
                        foray before Granada. In the evening he had had the insinuation offered him
                        by the Conde de Lerin that the campo was laughing at his Royal Highness.
                        That was a bad finish for a hot, tiresome day.
                    When about to take his departure from the Queen's pavilion, where this
                        conversation had been held, the King observed the Marquesa de Moya and Dõna
                        Antonia de Aragon waiting on his exit before leaving her Majesty for the
                        night.
                    The King halted, and, speaking a word to his gentlemen in waiting, who
                        immediately withdrew some paces, he signed to Antonia de Aragon to approach.
                        The marquesa whispered a word of caution to the girl, and Antonia responded
                        to the royal summons.
                    "It is my desire," said the King, "that the next marriage among my daughter
                        the Infanta's train of damsels will be yours with the Conde de Lerin. You
                        stand close in my affections, and my heart is set upon an auspicious
                        alliance for you. The Conde de Lerin is a gallant knight and an amiable
                        gentleman. You have every reason to congratulate yourself upon so fortunate
                        a marriage. I expect a speedy consummation of the happy event. The last
                        steps necessary to your marriage  settlement
                        will be taken shortly, and I shall be prepared to celebrate your betrothal
                        at any time thereafter."
                    This cool disregard of her cause led Antonia to believe that the opening of
                        hostilities between her and her royal guardian was at hand. She had a
                        sensation that she was about to break down and tremble some inane reply.
                    "My liege and uncle," she said, and it seemed that her resolute voice issued
                        from another throat than hers, "the Conde de Lerin does not wish to wed with
                        me except for that which your Majesty offers him with my hand. Surely,
                        within your powers there lies some way by which you can give him these
                        things without a sacrifice of me."
                    "You confuse the meaning of personal sacrifice and your duty as a subject of
                        your prince. It is not expected of you to decide whether the plans I urge
                        may or may not be improved."
                    "Sire, you urge me to stand between the Conde de Lerin and his first duty,
                        which is to his own conscience."
                    "Tut, tut," the monarch said without the slightest impatience in his manner.
                        "You make too much of a man's follies."
                    "Now is the time when the marriageable maid should make much of the follies
                        of men," she declared with spirit.
                    "The matter is too important for your opinions to prevail," the King
                        retorted. "Will you entertain his suit?"
                    By this time, thoroughly in control of herself, Antonia bowed low.
                    "Dearly as I reverence you, and truly as I know that this is the first return
                        you have asked for all your kindness to me, prithee, my liege, do not press
                        me to refuse."
                    Ferdinand thrust his handkerchief into his sleeve and flicked the wristfall
                        straight with as little feeling as if Antonia had returned some commonplace
                        instead of a defiance of his authority.
                    
                    "You have had too much liberty," he said, "but I am fair taken by surprise.
                        Throughout the ten years within my sight you have proven yourself to be a
                        right-devoted and high-minded damsel. I am moved to believe that your fault
                        is passing—an outcome of too much good fortune. You will see the
                        matter in better light in time."
                    He beckoned to the Marquesa de Moya, who had stood aloof with her dark eyes
                        full of anxiety.
                    "Doña Marquesa," said Ferdinand, "pray keep our Doña Antonia under ward in
                        her tent until what time she is prepared to submit to my will in all
                        things."
                    "As your Highness wishes," said the marquesa.
                    "Very good," said Ferdinand. "To-morrow will be a hard day. It is time we
                        were all to bed. Go with God, ladies."
                    He extended a short, muscular hand to the marquesa, inclined his head, and
                        passed out of the pavilion.
                    The marquesa, with alarm in her face, turned to Antonia.
                    "That was a mistake," said the knightly damsel, her chin up, her arms folded
                        over her breast, and all the latent stubbornness of her disposition
                        collected in her flashing eyes. "His Majesty has shown the worst of judgment
                        in his usage of me."
                    She signed the marquesa to precede her, and the good lady, struggling with an
                        inclination to burst into tears, led the way back to the Moya tent.
                    The cool wind, that by habit fell suddenly like the waft of some great wing
                        from the summits of the mountains of the snow, was singing through the
                        avenues of the campo. The long lines of silken pavilions shivered in the
                        draft and high above them, against the starry sky, the pennons fluttered
                        steadily.
                    All but the quarters of the Marquesa de Moya and another tent on the Camino
                        Estrecho were dark; presently the lights went out in these two. In the
                        former Antonia de Aragon had begun her sentence; in the latter  Don Garcilaso de la Vega had been taken with
                        a desire to walk off his perplexities in the air.
                    The renowned cavalier, having returned from Sevilla, where he had waged a
                        quiet campaign along his own particular plans of siege and conquest, was
                        suffering, as old campaigners sometimes do, a stage of uncertainty. Reason
                        told him that his method of warfare was effective, but under his red and
                        black velvets Don Garcilaso the Undefeated carried a human heart, and the
                        golden damsel was fair to see.
                    His squire had brought him a horn of Gascony as a sleep-inducer, but the
                        renowned cavalier was not ready to lighten his perplexities with the leaven
                        of wine. So he sat still, hearing Don Hernando's uninterrupted snores,
                        staring at his light, or inducing mosquitoes to drink for him and grow
                        sleepy in his stead, until, finally, his depression demanded air.
                    He went on noiseless feet out of his tent, along the deserted Camino
                        Estrecho, past the quiet house of the golden one, and turned up the Camino
                        Ancho toward the rising land westward.
                    He was near to the sentry lines; the level open that was the cementerio was
                        visible just without the bulwarks. The broad wind slithered the sand like
                        dry snow over his tracks behind him. With the sweet courage of the strong
                        breeze upon him, he felt his heart grow strong again.
                    Walking thus upon the summit of the rise, he found himself idly watching the
                        dark vega broaden into a red and untimely day. He saw enormous, ungainly
                        shadows pursue each other across this illumination. Distant Granada stole
                        forward into uncanny visibility. Immense trampling like cavalry rose behind
                        him. Overhead he saw the boiling of reddened clouds through which snapping
                        stars careened. Like one in a waking dream he stopped and wondered. Then,
                        the sentry near him, seeming all fantastically armored in blood-red steel,
                        threw up his arms, and began to bellow a medley of  alarms that on a sudden circled all the posts of sentries
                        within the cavalier's hearing.
                    Don Garcilaso whirled to see the silken camp of the nobility below him
                        wrapped in swift and furious flames.
                    With a fervent "God save us!" he began to run toward the stricken
                        encampment.
                    But fast as he ran toward the fire, the fire came faster toward him. It was
                        evident that his preoccupation had lasted well beyond the start of the
                        conflagration. All about him raged the most helpless panic among the hastily
                        routed company of gentles upon whom wafts of fierce heat beat with menace.
                        They ran to and fro, aimlessly shrieking and shouting; imploring Heaven and
                        crying incoherent commands that no one heeded; clinging to all sorts of
                        useless salvage, and carrying garments that they had not stayed to put
                        on.
                    By the time he reached the Camino Estrecho, tent after tent literally
                        exploded into flame. His own shelter, where a short time past he had sat in
                        the silence inducing mosquitoes to grow drunken, was a whirl of white fire
                        that swept round and round the house of the golden damsel and kept its doors
                        while it devoured them. Garcilaso shut everything out of his sight but that
                        fire-invested dwelling.
                    Its tower was crowded with persons, and at the railing and almost pushed over
                        it by the press of panic-stricken varlets behind her, was the golden
                        Sancha.
                    Garcilaso wrenched a scaling ladder from the shoulder of a man-at-arms and
                        set it up. But before he had it securely planted, the hands of the Conde de
                        Lerin helped him.
                    Then, with a mighty and merciless grip, Don Garcilaso seized upon his Spanish
                        passion of jealousy and hate. Even in panic he did not forget his war plan.
                        Above him, Sancha, beautiful in her appeal and bewitching in her bedgown,
                        reached down her hands to him.
                    "Up with you, my lord," said Garcilaso with composure, "while I hold the
                        ladder."
                    
                    And Lerin, nothing loth, in the face of Doña Sancha's despairing look at the
                        renowned cavalier, did as he was bidden.
                    Meanwhile the soldiers urged by the Marques de Villena whose long, singing
                        tones identified his sane commands above the wild orders of panic-stricken
                        captains, were furiously striking tents not yet involved in fire. Between
                        the gates and the Queen's pavilion, in which the fire had started, the
                        shelters were untouched, as the flames were driven northwest. Before the
                        advance of the conflagration the people parted and fled southwest and
                        northeast and, circling toward the east, met again in a headlong rush at the
                        gates and so out upon the vega beyond.
                    About them, under orders of the Marques de Villena, a double line of
                        formidably armed soldiers was immediately thrown.
                    Then, above all the panic of flight and the roar of uncontrolled destruction,
                        the leather-lunged trumpeters and the drummers of the Marques de Cadiz began
                        to sound the call to arms.
                    The Christians, already wrought to a high pitch of distress, understood in
                        this alarm a descent of the Moors upon the ravaged camp. Through the wild
                        disorder that ensued among the terrified gentry herded on the plain the
                        three thousand horse of the redoubtable Ponce de Leon began to pass
                        thundering to a spot between the stricken camp and the Moorish city.
                    As soon, however, as the movement was understood, reassurance began to be
                        felt. The scurry of soldiery, carrying commissary, munitions and house
                        furnishings out to safety emptied the campo upon the vega. Once out of reach
                        of the fire, those nobles whose shelters had been saved began to rally their
                        personal retinues and set up their tents. The first to be raised was
                        immediately turned over to the royal family. The tent of the Marques de
                        Cadiz had gone up in flames, but an ordinary service tent had been brought
                        from the stores and put  up for the use of the
                        marquesa. Don Alonso de Quintanilla was one of the fortunate who lost
                        nothing in the fire. His guests were presently rehoused under his big
                        pavilion out upon the plain, and in full possession of their goods
                        again.
                    The Moya tent had been destroyed, but its furnishings had been saved. These
                        were heaped upon the vega, with the household servidores on guard. As
                        comparative quiet settled upon the refugees the marquesa, recalling her duty
                        to the Queen, hastened to the tent that sheltered her royal mistress.
                    In disfavor with the King and in a position entirely anomalous, Antonia sat
                        on the heap of Moya furnishings and watched the rampant supremacy of the
                        flames, the awakening lights in Granada, the nervous shifting of the
                        houseless hundreds, and the increasing black patch on the vega, which was
                        the three thousand horse of the Marques de Cadiz.
                    She saw the big, bare pavilion of Quintanilla lighted, and almost immediately
                        the Conde de Lerin passed within, conducting the golden damsel wrapped in
                        tapestry.
                    Some little time later Lerin, cap-a-pie, heading his troop of Navarrese
                        lances, galloped by her in a cloud of dust and the music of their armor. For
                        the first time the King's nephew was taking the field.
                    A half-dozen damsels in charge of one of the older condesas and a body-guard
                        passed her. Each of the damsels veiled her wide feminine eyes as she passed
                        Antonia. The condesa stopped and after a moment's hesitation, as if at loss
                        for proper words for the occasion, explained to Antonia that, greatly as she
                        wished to take Antonia under her protection, in view of the situation it
                        were best to leave the knightly damsel to the specific command of his
                        Majesty.
                    Thus, though she had not been under confinement three hours, it was made
                        plain to the knightly damsel that the whole campo had the story of her
                        rebellion and  imprisonment. The dropping away
                        of sympathy, the curtailment of support was to be the King's method of
                        bringing her to submission.
                    She was not a woman to make capital out of her persecution or to contemplate
                        her situation in the light of romance. Since she had lost her illusions, she
                        saw the austerity of her plight, and she was stricken with resentment and
                        hopelessness and grief.
                    Half hidden in the unsteady darkness that lightened as some fresh material
                        fed the flames, she leaned her head in her hands and gave herself up to her
                        moody thoughts. The duenna, Catalina, worn out with excitement and anxiety,
                        slumbered on a rug at the foot of the heap of furnishings.
                    So, withdrawn into her trouble, Antonia did not see that one of the great
                        horses which at intervals hurtled by her was hauled up in a cloud of dust
                        from its own heels, near her. A squire sprang to its head, catching away a
                        lance from the rider's hands, and the knight leaping from the saddle came
                        toward her.
                    She knew nothing of this until the knight took her hands away into his own
                        and she raised her head to look into the face of Don Beltran Ponce de
                        Leon.
                    "Why are you here alone?" he was asking. "Where is the marquesa?"
                    It was a perceptible time before she could answer him.
                    "The marquesa is in attendance upon her Majesty."
                    "Why are you not with her?"
                    "I am not expected."
                    "There is some other reason. Pray, be frank with me, Doña Antonia."
                    "It is because I am a prisoner of the King," she returned.
                    "Because you have refused to wed Lerin!"
                    She smiled a little uncertainly, and in the tense moment that followed, the
                        merry matter showed up with startling clearness in the shape of a deadly
                        conflict. Force upon Antonia from the King upon Lerin's account  brought Beltran to the front with his hand on
                        his weapon. Frightened at the revelation, she was about to speak when he
                        broke in with a voice so stern and unfamiliar that she faltered, as if
                        before a stranger.
                    "My lady aunt's tent has been set up. There are no damsels with her. Come;
                        you shall not sit out in the night without shelter and protection."
                    He lifted her down from her perch, ordered the drowsy duenna to follow, and,
                        walking so swiftly that Antonia could barely keep up with him, led the way
                        to the rude little shelter that had been pitched for the Marquesa de Cadiz.
                        Servants were putting such furniture as had been saved into it, and the
                        great lady herself, with a foot-soldier's cloak over her nightgown and her
                        long gray hair braided down her back, was ordering its bestowal when Beltran
                        entered with Antonia.
                    "Doña Antonia is without shelter, madame. Pray, offer her what comfort you
                        have. There is little enough, God knows."
                    The good gentlewoman, exclaiming at the pitilessness of the fire and
                        declaring that she would never feel safe in a camp of tents, embraced
                        Antonia and summoning a varlet or two commanded them to set off a corner of
                        the little tent for the knightly damsel's use.
                    "The furnishings of my chamber," Antonia offered, "may be had."
                    "Nay; that is fortunate!" the marquesa said. "I have lost the whole of mine.
                        We shall borrow of you. If you will send your woman to show my servants, we
                        shall provide you shelter forthwith."
                    The duenna went out, and the marquesa, continuing her supervision over the
                        rehabilitation of her fire-ravaged residence, left the tent. Thus Beltran
                        was given a few minutes alone with Antonia.
                    "If I should not return from the field this night," he said, speaking rapidly
                        and watching the entrance of the dimly lighted tent, "go to the Queen with
                        your peril from Calcena. Throw yourself upon her protection. She will not
                        fail you in that matter."
                    
                    Up through the heart of the restless, noisy multitude near to the tent a
                        trumpeter forced his way and sent an irritable peal toward the burning
                        campo.
                    "That is for me," said Beltran. "Wilt thou bless me, Antonia?"
                    She raised her head at that and he knelt before her.
                    "God and Santiago keep and defend thee, Beltran," she whispered.
                    Slowly he rose and slowly extended his arms. She could not see his face
                        distinctly in the glimmering half-light, but she knew by the tenseness of
                        the movement that his whole heart was in the appeal.
                    Gone was the memory of the white rose, of the kiss of Leonor, of the many and
                        one damsels who loved him all unnoticed. Solitary, grieving, and helpless,
                        she was overcome by the offered comfort and the wistful arms. She went to
                        him and was folded as softly as mailed arms may hold a tender woman to a
                        steel-clad breast.
                    Over their heads again the trumpeter sent his imperious summons.
                    "Coming," said Beltran under his breath. "If I cannot live to your help,
                        sweetheart, it is time I were dying!"
                    He kissed her and, loosening the hold that she had laid upon his arms at that
                        unexplained statement, went swiftly out of the tent. She heard him speak to
                        his squire, heard him remount, and the hoofs of his horse beat away into the
                        wavering night over the vega.
                    While she examined his last words, she realized that he had said nothing
                        about what she should do to protect herself from a marriage with Lerin. But
                        she was not long in concluding that Beltran expected to fight out her
                        salvation with Lerin or come to his own end thereby.
                    Riding out into the great dun glimmer, part morning and part fire-lighted
                        smoke, Beltran saw parties like spectres scouring the plains in pursuit of
                        other spectres that shouted as they fled.
                    Two or three belated knights from the burning campo hammered after him, and
                        the unrelated group rode toward  the small
                        compact body of troop that had not joined the main body and was not in
                        action.
                    Fresh material, falling victim to the flames, played now and again a daylight
                        radiance over the vega, revealing the length and breadth of it and all the
                        faces thereon in a great glare.
                    Under one of these sudden illuminations, Beltran and his following of
                        unattached knights drew near to the standing troop. Then the color-bearer of
                        that body shouted, and, as one man, the entire company set spur to the
                        flanks of their horses and bore down upon Ponce de Leon and his scattered
                        following.
                    Within two hundred yards, the group tailed out to the rear, while the leader,
                        with his superb crest lowered, his lance couched, came thundering on toward
                        Beltran.
                    It was Lerin.
                    Beltran made no effort to identify himself. He was well aware that Lerin knew
                        him perfectly. But duelling was forbidden by the monarchs under the severest
                        penalties. The vega was full of Moorish guerillas, and skirmishes were
                        frequent in the darkness. It was a most propitious opportunity to settle
                        private grudges under cover of mistaking an enemy for an infidel.
                    The planned improvement of the Guadalquivir, only the previous morning
                        settled upon, would make vital inroads upon the conde's chances of a fortune
                        from the hands of his royal patron. Beltran Ponce de Leon was admittedly the
                        only man in Spain who could do the work, and the light that the engineer had
                        seen in the depths of the conde's black eyes when the improvement of the
                        Guadalquivir was resolved upon had not been good to see.
                    "Dismount," said Beltran to his squire, "and retire. This is not your
                        fight."
                    The squire's murmured inquiry of surprise was cut off by Beltran's rapid
                        preparations for battle. He pulled down his visor, couched his lance, drove
                        in his spur, and swept on to mete death or receive it in the name of the
                        woman he loved.
                    
                    The impact of their collision scored streaks of fire across their armor and
                        sent a clashing signal as far as the resting body of three thousand horse.
                        But in the deceptive glamour Lerin's lance passed without wound between
                        Beltran's arm and his corselet, but with such violence as to unhorse the
                        younger knight. The surprised three or four Christians who had followed
                        Beltran set up an outcry, and Lerin's retainers scattering charged them and
                        put every man on his defense and so cut off any interference with the duel
                        of their chief.
                    Lerin's Fleming careering widely gave Beltran time to pick himself up and
                        draw his broadsword. But the end of such an encounter was inevitable. With
                        his long sword over his head, his great shape raised in his stirrups, the
                        gigantic apparition of the King's favorite bore down upon the dismounted
                        Ponce de Leon as the embodiment of certain destruction.
                    But at that critical moment a pair of cavaliers from the ranks of the three
                        thousand horse dashed between the unequal antagonists. One fended off Lerin,
                        the other rode down upon Beltran.
                    "Hold, Christians!" the loud voice of Don Hernando Perez del Pulgar shouted.
                        "Would you murder each other in your folly?"
                    Lerin, seeking to ride around the knight who opposed him, was headed off by
                        that cavalier who, throwing up his visor, so earnestly menaced the tossing
                        head of the Fleming that Lerin, fearing for his horse, pulled up with a
                        French imprecation.
                    "How now, Garcilaso de la Vega, who are you to come between me and my enemy!"
                        he cried.
                    "Soft, my good lord," Garcilaso called back sarcastically. "It would have
                        gone ill with even you had you killed the King's one and only engineer."
                    "Don Hernando, your interference is ill-timed!" Beltran stormed.
                    "Peace, you red-haired fury!" Hernando said, leaning from his saddle to speak
                        under his breath. "Do  you mean to tell me
                        that you were fighting of a purpose with the King's nephew? Are you seeking
                        death and disgrace at the same time?"
                    "I have not pretended to mistake him, but he feigned to believe me a Moor!
                        The coward! The dastard! The—"
                    "Peace, peace, boy! You cannot fight this mountain! Do you wish to leave your
                        lady wholly without a champion and a prey to him? You must think of a better
                        way to finish him, and that—by the mass!—must not be by
                        combat."
                    Beltran stood by his panting horse, his chin lowered, his teeth set. He was
                        hearing it said that he was no match for the oppressor of Antonia.
                    "Friend," he said moodily, "I must fight him, inevitably."
                    "Now is not the time. Take your lady first! And depend upon it that Hernando
                        and Garcilaso will stand like men to your back!"
                    Beltran remounted, but as he pulled his horse's head toward Lerin, with the
                        fixed purpose of plain speech to the conde, Hernando gave his arm a rough
                        shake.
                    "Hence, hombre! No babyishness!" he said sternly.
                    Lerin, meanwhile, had wound a tucket and called together with a great show of
                        perturbation and dismay his party who were pursuing the three or four
                        utterly confounded Christians far and wide over the vega. But he made no
                        effort to halt the man he had pretended to mistake nor to offer an apology
                        for his conduct.
                    When the Marques de Cadiz ordered the return to the ruined campo for
                        recuperation before the day's foray, Don Beltran rode straight on through
                        the lines and dismounted before the cordon of royal guard thrown about the
                        tent occupied by the King. There he asked an audience with Don Ferdinand and
                        was immediately admitted.
                    Lerin was already there. Quintanilla and the Marques de Cadiz were
                        present.
                    
                    "Sire," said Beltran, "last night's disaster was one long feared and is to be
                        expected whenever we house ourselves in fabric. You, my liege, and our lady,
                        the Queen Doña Isabella, have sworn never to raise this siege. Seven days
                        will see this camp reconstructed and without safeguard that we shall not
                        suffer the same catastrophe again. I pray you, sire, let us build solidly
                        and for all time. All the villages that stood upon the vega are levelled.
                        Make we here a city to take their places; a city instead of a camp!"
                    "A city?" Ferdinand repeated dubiously.
                    "A city in which we may house the troops against our old enemy, the winter;
                        which we may victual in security against the blockading of the roads and the
                        loss of supply trains."
                    At this the King fixed a brightening eye on the engineer, and the Marques de
                        Cadiz rapidly pulled his beard.
                    "The winter has ever been the Moor's ally. It is upon the coming of the
                        winter that Granada founds her stubbornness. Let us build houses for our
                        supplies, our troops, and ourselves; a real city that has never been
                        violated by the feet of infidels; a city that shall signify to all the world
                        that the cross never means to raise this siege until the banner of the
                        infidel is lowered for all time over Spain!"
                    It was the master-touch to hold up the Christian inviolability of the city,
                        to urge it as a vaunt against the Moors. Before Beltran had finished, he saw
                        enthusiastic assent in the eye of the King and a murmur of approval ran
                        around the waiting nobles.
                    "Can it be done?" Ferdinand demanded of his engineer.
                    "My liege, we have here twenty thousand troops. The cities of the realm will
                        be proud to provide the funds."
                    "Quintanilla, said you not that there were nine cities under fine and in
                        arrears?" the King asked over the heads of the intervening gentlemen.
                    
                    "There are," said Quintanilla slowly, "but we had set that sum apart for a
                        specific purpose."
                    "This be the purpose," the King declared. "The triumph of the cross before
                        everything! Good work, Don Beltran! This will give a far swing to our arms!
                        Go, sir seneschal, and say unto my lady, the Queen, that I have before me a
                        matter that calls for her immediate consideration at my side!"
                    Within an hour after he had ridden in from the field, where he had so nearly
                        wrought havoc with himself, Beltran went forth from the tent of the King
                        commissioned to build instead of a camp, the city of Santa Fe, and to expend
                        thereon the funds of nine cities which had been set aside for the dower of
                        Doña Antonia de Aragon. And as he passed out the total silence of Don Alonso
                        de Quintanilla and the blazing eyes of the Conde de Lerin followed him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII
                    BELTRAN SHOWS SANTANGEL A VISION
                    IT was a simple enough plan that Beltran Ponce de Leon
                        laid out for the new city of Santa Fe—truly a city evolved for a
                        condition of war—regular, military, unornamental. Four-square,
                        crossed to the cardinal points by wide alamedas, it centred about a plaza
                        large enough for the entire Christian army to be massed upon it. He
                        furnished it with a wall, fortified it with monumental towers, located the
                        churches, the royal residence, the markets, the carcel, the barraca, the
                        stables for the cavalry, and set off certain sections to be occupied by the
                        nobility.
                    After he had submitted the plans to the King and the Queen he personally set
                        the stakes for the new city, surrendered the drawings to the Marques de
                        Villena, who was Ferdinand's camp builder, and so had done with it.
                    The twenty thousand troops in the campo and the nine delinquent cities were
                        to build it.
                    Its rise was to be a feat characteristic of the spectacular time. November I,
                        less than three months after the fire had laid waste the Christian camp, was
                        to see the army housed within a substantial shelter. Spain lost sight of the
                        practical value of the new city in contemplating the symbol it afforded. The
                        nine cities might be depended upon to vie with each other in the speed with
                        which their work was accomplished.
                    Iron baskets were suspended from poles every rod throughout the site and
                        filled with fire; the twenty thousand were divided into shifts, and day or
                        night never an instant's halt except for the Sabbath was allowed to  trowel, crane, or hammer. And the Moors,
                        penned up in Granada after the foray among the gardens, stood upon their
                        battlements and watched a city of forty thousand grow up overnight under
                        their eyes.
                    Beltran's work was done, but he lingered three or four days after he was at
                        liberty to be gone to the Guadalquivir to see a certain German carpenter who
                        was noted throughout Spain as an expert in the construction of secret
                        passages, concealed stairs, traps, and kindred quiet work in architecture.
                        Wherever much building was done in that day this man was to be expected, and
                        Beltran had in mind some modification in the plans of the house to be
                        occupied by the Marques and the Marquesa de Moya and the King's prisoner,
                        Antonia de Aragon.
                    One sunset the German arrived, and Beltran held a consultation with him
                        forthwith. That done, the morrow was to see the engineer on his way toward
                        the great labor that awaited him in the north.
                    But after he had dismissed the German, Beltran descried the Marques de Cadiz,
                        the Duque de Medina-Sidonia, who was a visitor at the camp, Quintanilla, and
                        Garcilaso de la Vega strolling with interest through the boundaries of the
                        new city over which the heaps of excavation were so plentifully scattered as
                        to convey the impression that the Christian had suddenly become a burrowing
                        species. Beltran turned his steps their way.
                    "Don Beltran," said Garcilaso, "do you believe it a Christian act to rob a
                        fellow knight of a fortune and spend it on vain cities?"
                    "This city is not vain. The end of this war follows upon the building of
                        Santa Fe," Beltran declared.
                    "What! Do you boast to end this war?" the duque demanded.
                    "At least," said the marques, "we shall leave no means untried that might end
                        the war, because, forsooth, a maid cannot make up her mind."
                    The eyes of the grand old duque wandered toward  the booty of the monarchs. Far and wide under the rosy sunset stretched
                        the fertility of the vega waiting for the tilth of peace. On her two hills
                        to the southeast fainted Granada, the Pomegranate, ready to drop its
                        marvellous wealth into the hands of the Kings. Back of and beyond the blue
                        ramparts of the Sierras lay the boundless prosperity of united Spain. Power
                        at its greatest and its grimmest height, wealth within and without were
                        piling booty at the door of the crowns.
                    Once within the prime of this formidable old baron, he would have made such
                        one-man profit from this conflict extremely difficult. For a time after the
                        Spanish monarchs had newly welded their state he had been reconciled, but as
                        he grew older his ancient animosities rose to the surface along with the
                        renewal of his old prejudices. The climacteric evidence of his estrangement
                        had come when he had withdrawn his personal command from the troops which he
                        had sent to the campaign before Granada. The fall of the city so imminent
                        was feeding that ancient flame.
                    "What if the lady should submit?" Quintanilla said crossly. "Imagine the
                        embarrassment of the King after penning her up to make her consent to be
                        forced to pray her pardon, that Lerin would have none of her without the
                        dowry, and, faith, the King had it not!"
                    "Oh," said Beltran audaciously, "he can borrow."
                    "Borrow!" the Marques de Cadiz echoed. "Who can lend? Who hath aught left to
                        lend? Every noble in the campo hath emptied his purse for this war,
                        till—by the mass!—we shall be wanting money to put a
                        thatch on our cattle-sheds that have gone aleak while we both fought and
                        financed this war."
                    "Oh," said Beltran, "here is his grace the duque. He is a generous, wealthy
                        man."
                    Quintanilla's eyes flashed their indignant amazement and his lips parted as
                        if to speak. But the Duque de Medina-Sidonia pulled his gray mustache and
                        cleared his throat.
                    
                    "The famine," he began, "hath left my tenantry so—"
                    But at that his old friend and one-time enemy the Marques-Duque de Cadiz
                        laughed aloud.
                    "Some one," continued Beltran, "must aid the King to this match, else his
                        Majesty will be sore put to it to add the kingdom of Navarre to his
                        domains."
                    "There was a time," said the Duque de Medina-Sidonia, "when Lerin would not
                        have had so long to wait. Some Castilian seeking a puissant son-in-law would
                        have fanned his rancor, furnished him with a bride and a dowry and an armed
                        force to take Navarre, and it would have put Ferdinand to it to prevent the
                        matter."
                    How simple, how shamefully simple it had been! King yet in his old head, the
                        duque's resentment against the centralization of power stood in need of the
                        right touch only to be once more allied against Ferdinand's acquisition of
                        Navarre. Nevermore need Beltran fear that the dowry of Antonia de Aragon
                        could be raised from the fierce old baron. He felt his first twinge of
                        conscience, that augmented as he heard his uncle speaking in a conciliatory
                        tone.
                    "I am old enough to welcome peace and amity with my princes and my peers.
                        Time was when I was glad to be in the midst of warring lands, but it
                        distresses me now. I am thankful for an united Spain."
                    The old duque turned his glittering eye upon his friend.
                    "You are an older man than I am, then, Roderigo!" he declared grimly.
                    He walked away, and, deep in thought, the marques followed him.
                    Garcilaso, with one look unutterably appreciative of Beltran's craft,
                        followed the old lords lightly.
                    But Quintanilla, silent and reproachful, lingered. It was time he had an
                        understanding with young Ponce.
                    "Son Beltran," he said when the three were out of  hearing, "do you mean to do everything you were be sought not
                        to do? You mean to spend the King's money on the Guadalquivir; you are
                        spending the revenues of nine cities on this one; and now you have
                        forewarned the Duque de Medina-Sidonia that the King means to borrow of
                        him—"
                    Then Beltran took the auditor's hand.
                    "Old friend, must I tell you? Can you not see without the telling what I am
                        about?"
                    "Lad!" Quintanilla exclaimed in a suppressed voice, as with shock he
                        comprehended at last. "Is it you who stands between the King and his hopes
                        for Navarre?"
                    Beltran sat down on a stone still holding the auditor's hand as he would hold
                        a woman's.
                    "I need a confederate, and you answer well," he said.
                    "I consider it an impressment," Quintanilla declared, coloring under his
                        feeling. "I am a loyal friend to the King!"
                    "Oh, and the gentlest knight! Better man than all of us, because we others
                        defend women against everything but ourselves, and you—you have
                        never even laden a woman with the selfishness of your love."
                    Quintanilla pulled his hand away and restlessly walked a step or two.
                    "The King, old friend, hath had naught at my hands but the most material
                        profit. I pledge you, I shall work no evil to him. I ask—nay, wait
                        till I have told you all!"
                    Beginning with the hour when he first saw Antonia through a crevice of the
                        ruin in the mountains until that day, he related the whole story.
                    For a long time after Beltran had done Quintanilla still stood with his eyes
                        upon the tent of the Marques de Cadiz, glowing like a pink shell as the
                        night deepened about it, and the black silhouettes of a merry group passing
                        it growing merrier as they were extinguished again in the shadows.
                    
                    "You know the outcome of such a fight as this," he said in an uncertain
                        voice, "three times out of three."
                    "Three times out of four," said Beltran hopefully; "and this is the fourth
                        time. Keep a stout heart for me, Don Alonso; I was born under a lucky
                        star."
                    But Quintanilla shook his silver sable head.
                    "What is my part?" he asked presently.
                    "To stand off," said Beltran. "You can slap your budget shut and ruin
                        me."
                    "To do no more than I have been doing?"
                    "Ay; to keep a still tongue in your head, and a kind heart in your breast,
                        and a watchful eye on my lady's weal while I am absent."
                    "Which means," said Quintanilla, "to watch for any movement toward forcing
                        her into a wedding and to hold off my hand in the search after this
                        dowry."
                    "Is it too much, Don Alonso?"
                    "No," said Quintanilla after a silence. "Go about your labor with your mind
                        at peace. I am not sure about what is right and what is wrong in this
                        matter, and while I am in such ignorance it is safe to follow my heart."
                    He pressed Beltran's hand and went slowly away. Beltran looked after him.
                    "There goes a man," he said to himself, "who never broke a law, interfered
                        with authority, laid a plot, mislaid a maravedi, played the gallant, nor
                        dodged a punishment. He is good enough to be an angel, and now I have
                        smirched his record and laid trouble on his soul."
                    A step roused him from his meditations and he turned quickly.
                    "Santangel!" he exclaimed. "Thou soft-footed pard! How long hast thou been
                        there?"
                    "I have but this instant come!" the converso assured him earnestly.
                    "Sit down!" said the knight, giving him room. "I love thy company even now.
                        Hast heard from Colon?"
                    Santangel, who was never at ease, whose atmosphere  seemed so tense that Beltran was sure that a touch on his
                        shoulder would have brought the converso to his feet with a bound, sat down
                        beside Beltran.
                    "No," he said finally, "I have not heard."
                    "Hast written yet?"
                    "Why should I write? What have I to say that I have not said? He wants no old
                        comfort!"
                    "Nay, but methinks we can give him good news. The end of the war is in sight.
                        The war was the Queen's excuse. When it is finished she will be in the right
                        mind to take up new plans. Unless we mean to lose him, now is the time to
                        write to him."
                    Santangel shrugged his shoulders.
                    "Is it not so that he is departed from us?"
                    "He said he was going to Huelva to leave his child with a relative."
                    "He is gone! His heart was broken!" Santangel declared.
                    "Broken, his heart may have been, doubtless," Beltran observed, "but I am not
                        so sure about his departure. It takes some means to go to France, and I know
                        the sailor to have been penniless."
                    "Bad! Very bad!" said Santangel. "Seest thou why a Jew fixes his living first
                        of all things? Who wanders must be well in purse. This sailor, now, hath
                        taken no thought upon his bread and shoes. Old age catches him barefoot and
                        hungry!"
                    Beltran thought of the fortune that he was about to spend upon the
                        Guadalquivir, of the fortune that he was already spending upon the new city
                        of Santa Fe, and then the white face of Colon, his hopes killed within him,
                        rose with its sudden and surprising rebuke to him.
                    Luis de Santangel was the comptroller of the funds of the Santa Hermandad,
                        one of the revenues from which Ferdinand had hoped to draft the dowry for
                        Antonia de Aragon. With the exception of the Inquisition that was the only
                        avenue as yet unclosed toward the marriage settlement. Santangel was
                        converted to the Christian  faith, but he was
                        still a Jew in his wariness of innovations and his prudent usage of money.
                        The converso's chief concern for the Genoese was for his safety from the
                        grip of Calcena. But the cardinal having taken the sailor under his
                        protection, Santangel was not greatly troubled about Colon. Beltran knew
                        instinctively that he would have to bring forward some more potent argument
                        to the mind of the converso than the technical and scientific testimony that
                        the world was round and that India could be reached by sailing west.
                    "I will exchange the other side of the world with the King for Navarre!" he
                        said to himself, amused at his own presumptions, "and God grant that there
                        is another side to exchange."
                    "It might have gone worse with Colon," he said reflectively. "He could have
                        offended the church. He was upon a narrow edge. That was a bold act even for
                        a cardinal to gainsay all this saintly science. Calcena was totally
                        unprepared for that."
                    "Calcena!" Santangel exclaimed, his Jewish excitability at once to the fore.
                        "The illest of the foul fiend's brood! Never to be fed fat, since his
                        appetite on blood and suffering is never slaked! He burned us all! Every
                        Santangel! gray-beard sire, tremulous, bowed old mother, brothers,
                        kin—all! None left but me, and I, the most mercilessly served. For
                        he plays the cat and mouse with me! Pounces upon me, mauls me awhile, and
                        lets me free! If ever he will fatten, it is upon me as his game. For as sure
                        as I am well housed, well fed, and in good standing with my fellows, he
                        whetteth his teeth for a meal upon me one day!"
                    Beltran made no answer for a moment. Santangel's mania was his family's
                        wrongs, and the knight was not intent on exciting Santangel's passions but
                        upon giving him hope.
                    "Life in our time is all wrong, Luis," he said after a time. "It cannot be
                        anything but unfair to subject the will of the many to the will of the one.
                        It cannot  be right to force others to believe
                        what we believe, and to punish them if they fail. It cannot be right to
                        wrest domain from its possessors because, forsooth, we are able to do so. I
                        became convinced of this when mine own faith was flung in my teeth, when
                        mine own liberty was denied me and my person drafted without relief into the
                        service of another. At first I was enraged. Then, for the sake of peaceable
                        living, while I must needs live with a Moor and mine enemy, I ceased to
                        resist. When I no longer openly rebelled, the Moor treated me better. I
                        could not withstand years of life with him without studying his way of
                        looking at things. I came forth from my captivity changed, and the world in
                        which I live presents a new aspect to me. It is wrong, and it has been wrong
                        so long that it cannot be righted. We should have to begin anew in a
                        different world, Luis!"
                    "How hopeless!" the converso exclaimed.
                    "No," said Beltran, "I cannot think it is hopeless. We know but half of the
                        world."
                    In the dark, the knight could see the eyes of the converso turn with interest
                        and wonder at this unexplained declaration.
                    Beltran paused at this. He intended that the converso should lead him on.
                    "What of that?" Santangel demanded.
                    "Nay, what of it, Luis? Canst not see? What if there should be a virgin land
                        on the other side of the world, rich in plenty enough to nourish a
                        nation?"
                    "Nay, it must needs be the territory of the kingdom that discovered it!"
                        Santangel declared.
                    "Who would go there to make them a dwelling-place?" Beltran returned.
                    There was a silence.
                    "Doubt not," continued the knight, "that these dying Moors, these fleeing
                        Jews, these trembling heretics, these starving peasants would fly to it for
                        refuge—even now as they fly to Sicily. And when they had founded
                        their  state there, think you that they would
                        permit again the establishment of the oppressions from which they fled?"
                    "They might not," said Santangel bitterly, "so long as they remembered their
                        old wrongs; but let them grow rich and powerful—you cannot purge
                        sinful man of his cruelty when he hath money and strength to hold off
                        punishment."
                    "I doubt it! No state has ever been founded like that! Its beginnings might
                        set the feet of its people along different paths than the way of the old
                        fault."
                    But the converso had his objection; he had despaired so long that he resented
                        hope.
                    "Who would have thought that the Gospel of the Prince of Peace would have
                        been forgotten!" he said.
                    "It is not!" said Beltran. "Whoso suffers remembers it! Santangel, in Venice
                        I read forbidden books, heard forbidden preachers, and I thought forbidden
                        thoughts. And I know that under this iron grasp of wealth and power and
                        bigotry there is a struggling thing held narrowly—liberty!"
                    The converso laid a hand in caution upon the young knight's, but Beltran went
                        on fearlessly:
                    "If it escape here, in this old dominion of power and persecution, the
                        minions of the law will hunt it down. There is no place for it here. But it
                        is God's creature! And there is a place for it somewhere on God's
                        creation!"
                    "Oh what a delusion!" Santangel mourned. "It cannot exist this side of the
                        stars!"
                    "Behold Colon's vision, my friend!"
                    Santangel sat like one transfixed for a moment.
                    "But you surpass him in your dreams," he said in a half-whisper at last.
                    "I do. He thinks only of the enlargement of the Spanish domain—the
                        enrichment of the crown and the spread of the true faith over all the
                        earth."
                    "All the old ambition, nothing new. Simply the extension of the evils of the
                        world!" said Santangel gloomily.
                    
                    "Hear yet further. By the new year we shall drive the Moors hence;
                        thereafter, some time, the Jews; now and for all time, the heretic. Let us
                        believe that they will follow Colon into the unknown beyond the setting sun.
                        After them will follow the paisano, despoiled by warring kings of his lands;
                        the defeated man, determined not to live under the rule of his enemies; the
                        broken man; the man who would think, feel, and do as his conscience bids
                        him. Now, then! Think you that mine uncle would go there, whatever
                        invitation the new world holds forth; or that any other of the wealth and
                        power which hath its heaven here in Spain? No! Then we have erected our
                        state of the enemies of the tyranny of power. Let us see the force of power
                        on this side of the world work its will on the other side among a people
                        that it so barely held down under the shadow of its mace here! It is too far
                        a reach, my friend."
                    "If I could believe that, Don Beltran, I should launch mine own ship and set
                        forth myself."
                    "Let Colon do it for you. He can handle a cross-staff and an astrolabe, and
                        knows a mast from a bowsprit; a knowledge lacking in you, I fear,
                        Santangel."
                    "Let him! I would slay the man that hindered him, had I such a hope as
                        yours," the converso cried.
                    "Soft, my friend," said Beltran. "It is time for change, but neither you nor
                        I will share it. It took even six days for the Most High to found a world
                        and people it. Our task will take somewhat longer, methinks. It will be our
                        children's heritage and not ours, except to make it for them."
                    Santangel, who had risen and was walking about, stopped before the reposeful
                        Ponce de Leon.
                    "Why do you think of another world? Why do you differ with Colon?" he
                        demanded.
                    "Explorers have never found a great civilization. They have gone north and
                        found rude men. They have gone south and found savages. Christ came to this
                        side of the earth. His teaching has not spread beyond  the footsteps of his Apostles. And then, the drowned men who
                        came ashore at the Flores were naked savages. If there be a far India, as
                        Colon hopes, it will be a rude India, not the highly developed India that
                        Polo tells about. How can there be, when its inhabitants go naked and carve
                        their wood with stones and make children's pictures of their idols? I
                        believe there is an unknown, untamed, savage land west of us."
                    "They—they may have come from some mid-ocean island," Santangel
                        said, fearing his objection might hold good.
                    "Colon says that islands lie near the mainland. The civilization of the great
                        land washes its manner and custom up on the shore of its broken fragments
                        alongside it, to be used by the peoples thereon."
                    Santangel stood before his teacher with his hands clasped.
                    "Oh, if it could but be true!" he whispered.
                    "Let us send Colon to see," Beltran said kindly.
                    "I will write—I will go—I will do anything to have him
                        back!" the converso said.
                    "Stand ready, then, for her Majesty's sole excuse—her poverty. If he
                        wants but twenty thousand florins, I have it."
                    "What!" Santangel cried. "You will stake him if it come to money?"
                    "That I will to my last maravedi!"
                    "Nay!" exclaimed the converso, "that you will not! I will not see you lose. I
                        have the funds of the Santa Hermandad to lend. They are no man's money but
                        the King's. I will offer them. If there is to be a loss, let it be theirs
                        who will gain greatly if they lose not."
                    "But," said Beltran cautiously, "Calcena wishes to borrow money from you for
                        Lerin's wedding."
                    Santangel made a violent motion.
                    "I would sink them in the sea before he should have them," he declared.
                    "Well, then, the war with Granada is in its last  quarter. Let us have Colon forth upon the seas by the spring."
                    "But how if he be gone to France?"
                    "I talked last with him. It is a long, stale process to make his
                        representations anew to another court, and a sickening tax upon his patience
                        to wait upon its deliberations. He will not leave so long as there is a
                        gleam of hope for him."
                    "If you have the relative's name at Huelva, I will send to him and trace the
                        sailor till I find him, though it be before the throne of France. Are you to
                        bed?"
                    "To-morrow I depart for Sevilla. I have a whole night's work before me, so I
                        rest before I begin."
                    "Go with God, then, Don Beltran. Heaven speed all the labors of your
                        hands!"
                    The knight thanked the converso and was presently left alone.
                    The rosy tent in the night held his eyes. A certain exultation possessed him,
                        as his schemes rounded his course into the sight of success. But it would be
                        long until all things led to a happy realization of his hope. The longing in
                        his heart wakened a thought upon Antonia's feeling in the matter of a delay.
                        She should be allowed to decide for herself.
                    He would see her yet that night.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVIII
                    ANTONIA MAKES A CHOICE
                    AFTER the fire, days of waiting ensued for Antonia. Her
                        duenna was removed; only her tirewoman was left to her service, who came and
                        went, leaving hours of solitude between her visits of attention.
                    Through the dropped hangings of her apartment, set aside for her when the
                        Marques de Cadiz erected a large pavilion thirty-six hours after the fire,
                        she could hear the lively activities of the big hospitable tent. She could
                        hear the chatter of the visiting dames and damsels, invariably with an
                        interjected undertone or two which, she knew, referred to her. She heard
                        Lerin discussed and admired; she heard Don Beltran wondered at; and the
                        submission of Don Garcilaso to the golden one analyzed and misconstrued. By
                        nightfall the endless soprano chatter was varied by an interlarding of the
                        short, laconic remarks of men. After the evening meal the talk drifted out
                        into the open, where the canopy of stars and the soft air from the mountains
                        invited the prisoners of the sun into the gentle darkness.
                    Sometimes when an opportunity was favorable the golden damsel would come to
                        her curtains and whisper her name. When Antonia came close, the last
                        knightly damsel to hold her place by the Infanta would whisper comfort and
                        gossip and a sorry little sentence or two of self-pity that assured Antonia
                        that the golden one was infallibly getting her lesson. Then the untimely
                        arrival of some unsympathizing person would abruptly terminate the interview
                        and Antonia would be solitary again.
                    
                    But many times within and without that big pavilion she heard a voice that
                        made her heart leap and her hands tremble—a voice that she was sure
                        was different, not only because she loved it but because she believed it to
                        be better graced by God.
                    One day tumult and tremendous jolting and the startling cries of oxen drivers
                        and muleteers passed along by the tent. She smelt the dust and heard the
                        noise all day long. When a body of troop passed, they shouted vivas and
                        cheered the name of Beltran Ponce de Leon. Then the golden one told her that
                        night of the new city of Santa Fe, and Antonia saw in it the hand of her
                        lover diligent for her sake and was glad.
                    With the arrival of the materials for the new city, it seemed that the air
                        filled with the name of the engineer. Antonia in her prison, glowing with
                        pride and love, felt an almost tearful sympathy with the strange new timbre
                        in the voice of the ruddy old Marques de Cadiz, whose effort to keep his
                        gratification in hand was unsuccessful.
                    "Poor old man; after all, he is not yours—no more than he is mine!"
                        she murmured.
                    One night the company, habitually sheltered under the roof of the Marques de
                        Cadiz, was augmented by the usual evening collection of wifeless knights and
                        visiting dames and their attendant damsels, and out of the hubbub of
                        Andalusian merrymaking the tones of the Conde de Lerin were distinguishable.
                        The golden one was there and, as the darkness deepened, Garcilaso de la Vega
                        and the Duque de Medina-Sidonia. Some one was singing a copla with a
                        guitarra, and at the end Antonia heard Lerin demand the instrument. A moment
                        later, after a practised tinkling over the guitarra, he sang in a
                        wonderfully rich voice the same copla but with a variation in the sense that
                        brought out a burst of delighted applause.
                    Just without Antonia's curtain from within the pavilion, and so close to her
                        that she started, Beltran said in an undertone:
                    
                    "What think you of that, Tio Roderigo?"
                    The marques in his lisp answered briefly and in the same voice:
                    "It is a decadent age, my boy. Chivalry is far gone."
                    Out of a rustle of papers and light movements the marques spoke again:
                    "See that your boy binds it between soft articles lest it be broken.
                        Garcilaso tells me that the pair of you have developed a system of combat
                        between this and the sword."
                    "Henceforward it is my weapon," Beltran answered. Then he raised his voice
                        and spoke to his squire:
                    "See that two horses are caparisoned for the journey, and wait me in an
                        hour."
                    "Nay, then, if this be all I may do for you," the marques said, "I will e'en
                        back to our guests."
                    "Ay, go, and my thanks go with you."
                    She heard the marques depart. Still in the apartment without she heard the
                        light, confident footfall. She wondered if anything could have put her in
                        such complete command of herself had she known that he was imprisoned within
                        a few feet of her.
                    Her tirewoman, sitting in a corner waiting for her mistress to decide to
                        retire, had grown sleepy. Antonia, with a new book on the submission of
                        women open under a light, listened with all her ears. And while she listened
                        she heard a movement just without her curtains, and the next minute a folded
                        bit of paper shot under the curtain and skittered into the middle of the
                        floor.
                    Antonia pounced upon it in a fright.
                    "Santa Maria! How reckless!" she breathed.
                    "Oh, madame, what was it?" the tirewoman asked.
                    "A mouse, was it not?"
                    The tirewoman sprang up and shook the cushions, the curtains, and looked
                        under the armoire and the bed.
                    "Nay, then; it is gone," said Antonia. "Come, put me on my night-dress and
                        lay back the covers. Then you may go."
                    
                    The servant went about her labors deliberately, to be hurried at this, to be
                        relieved at that, and finally to be dismissed with her mistress still robed
                        and the light still burning.
                    Then, within the shelter of her book and safe from all prying eyes, Antonia
                        opened the folded note.
                    "Will the most sweet donzel of the tower, doublet and all, bid me farewell
                        within a half-hour?"
                    Confused with her emotions, it was some time before Antonia understood the
                        cryptic request.
                    Then she was seized with indecision that multiplied as she unlocked her chest
                        and laid out the fog-gray satin habit that she had worn on the day of the
                        beginning of things, that augmented while she pinned up her black hair and
                        laid off her garments and got into the page's dress, that entirely possessed
                        her as she saw her boyish masquerade for the first time in the mirror.
                    She would not see him, she declared. Then she put on the capa.
                    Why should she dress thus if not to go out into the open. Impossible! Then
                        she put her light out.
                    She listened. The footsteps in the apartment without had ceased. At the front
                        of the pavilion the singing and the laughter went on. Lerin had betrayed his
                        ability as a copla singer and was allowed no rest.
                    Just without her own enclosure she heard a step. One of the sentries was
                        passing who guarded the quarters of the great Marques de Cadiz. He saluted
                        with a rattle of his arms, and the greeting to which he had replied was in
                        Beltran's voice. Almost immediately, while she stood breathing fast, the
                        angle of the tent slackened with a jerk as if one of the guy-ropes had been
                        loosened. The canvas lifted.
                    "Come," he said to her from without. "Come quickly!"
                    In another minute the sweet stars were over her head; the free breeze of the
                        night played upon her, and, with her hand in her lover's, she was walking
                        through  open spaces, between tents and into
                        the unbroken dark expanse that smelled of charred wreckage, where the campo
                        had once stood.
                    When he stopped, finally, they were out of sight and sound of the tents. She
                        saw the dark outlines of two horses some distance away from them, with a
                        figure at their heads.
                    Then he spoke in a voice full of restraint.
                    "My squire waits yonder with two horses. By dawn we can be in Malaga. Will
                        you go?"
                    The taste of liberty in the open air, the joy of having her lover at her side
                        and offering her escape—flight in its sweetest
                        form—whipped her blood into a fever of eager willingness. But the
                        note of restraint in his voice occurred to her in time. He was not free to
                        go!
                    "Don Beltran, are you not under a pledge of honor to do the King's work for
                        Sevilla?" she asked.
                    "My first pledge is to you," he said.
                    "You offer me liberty at the price of your dishonor?" she insisted.
                    "God knows, Doña Antonia, I would offer you myself with a name above
                        reproach, but I cannot endure this mistreatment of you—this callous
                        brutality of Lerin and the King!"
                    "A thousand times would I endure it than to have liberty at the price of your
                        broken word!" she cried vehemently. "I have chosen. Take me back to my
                        prison."
                    Instead he took her to his heart in an agony of passion and desperation.
                    "God help me, child!" he cried. "I am a poor knight for a champion!"
                    With a resumption of composure to his help, she laid her hands on the one
                        that clasped her waist and pressed it consolingly.
                    "What passed out there in the field while the campo burned?" she asked.
                        "There is rumor about."
                    "I encountered Lerin, but to no result," he answered  bitterly. "Two cavaliers pretending to believe that we had
                        mistaken each other for Moors, separated us. They frankly told me that I was
                        seeking my death!"
                    "You must not fight him!" she commanded him. "If you were slain, what help
                        would there be left for me?"
                    "Ay, and I would be slain," he declared gloomily. "How can you choose so weak
                        a defender?"
                    Then she put her hands on each side of his face, and, lifting herself so that
                        her lips were close to his, she said very sweetly:
                    "I made my choice calmly, and each happening makes me prouder of my choosing.
                        How else could I be saved except as you are saving me? Be always as you are,
                        for as you are I love you!"
                    With a reckless gladness, then, under the spell of her words, he pressed her
                        closer and kissed her in a passion of gratitude and told her all that he had
                        done for her.
                    "No avenue remains unclosed but the Inquisition, and that is considered both
                        by Calcena and the King as well-nigh hopeless. I cannot conceive why the
                        King chooses to imprison you rather than use his power to force you into a
                        wedding at once, unless his Majesty is still uncertain of Lerin's loyalty. I
                        do not expect him to use pressure yet, for as time goes on, if Lerin hath a
                        tainted spot in him, it will grow large enough to be seen by the eye! But
                        that you should be imprisoned—" he broke off with a recurrence of
                        suffering.
                    "Nay, never did a damsel welcome a prison with so light a heart," she
                        declared, "even though it were for all time."
                    "For all time!" he repeated. "Mother of God! It will be long enough! The
                        whole ocean to be dragged into the heart of Spain before—"
                    "Before what? Do we not love each other now? And always, evermore?"
                    "Nay, but I am a lover and I want you!"
                    "We will do well to have each other at all in the face  of the King's will," she admonished him. "This is no occasion
                        for impatience, Beltran!"
                    He sighed and shook his head and so flared up into resolution.
                    "Let be! I'll mend it, if there is any help for dire perplexities left in
                        this scheming head of mine!"
                    They were close to the abandoned lombard, corroded by fire and resting upon a
                        bed of charred wood that had been its carriage. He spread his capa upon it
                        and bade her sit. Then he sat down at her feet and crossed his arms upon her
                        lap.
                    "Now, since thou hast insisted upon the integrity of my word before thy
                        freedom, I must give thee what hope and comfort I can. To-morrow at dawn I
                        ride to Sevilla. I must leave thee in the care of another. I have opened my
                        heart to Quintanilla, because he is good and because he will know, as the
                        King's auditor, days beforehand of the purposes of the King. He will know
                        what to do. He is stanch and kind; the friend of my family for two
                        generations. Please God, if I am spared until I can come again, I shall do
                        away with some of the soreness in my heart."
                    She put her hand on his head and stroked his hair with so delighted and
                        lingering a touch that he knew that she had wanted to do that thing for a
                        long, long time.
                    "You have not asked me when I will come?" he said.
                    "How can you think that I do not care?" she said sadly. "I only fear to
                        know."
                    "To-night Santangel vowed to fetch Colon back to the court. It is my belief
                        as well as the hope of the commanders that, since this new city is to be
                        built, Granada will surrender sometime about the New Year. The Queen, in her
                        gratitude and in her preparedness for new labors, may be expected to grant
                        the petition of the sailor. I must be here to add another supporter to his
                        cause. Expect me, then, Antonia."
                    
                    She counted on her fingers from July to January, and the number of months
                        appalled her. But with courage she bade him carry no burden of care, that
                        she would do well, that the saints would help them.
                    "How little thou lamentest, my sweet!" he said with compassion. "It pierces
                        me to see thee so brave. Come, hide thine eyes. Weep thy fill! Thou shalt
                        not bruise thy soul with restraint for my peace."
                    "Nay," she said resolutely, "I weep not. Had I believed you in Sevilla, we
                        should have been away into the world and well out of this by now."
                    "And you believe me now?" he asked anxiously.
                    "Thou art my new gospel, Beltran," she declared.
                    "Doubt not, I could find an excuse to return for each day that I must be
                        parted from you—good excuse that would pass scanning by the King!
                        But every day so absent from that ball and chain about mine ankle, the
                        Guadalquivir, that much longer puts off its completion and my freedom to run
                        away with my lady."
                    They said nothing for a time—a time that might have been anxious
                        enough had they not been so happy in the moment given them to be together.
                        They were to separate; Antonia's absence might at any time be discovered.
                        Their eventual union was most uncertain. But love's hardships have made it
                        heedless, buoyant, optimistic. The serenest of its life has been lived long
                        and after the time it should have had an eye to the clock.
                    But Beltran's thoughts led him through the ramblings of speculation into a
                        conclusion that showed itself in an impulsive laugh.
                    "Hath it been a question to you, Antonia, why I found it so simple to steal
                        you to-night? If they suspected that your rebellion arose upon any cause but
                        Lerin's misbehavior, they would have surrounded you with guards. Oh, the
                        foolhardiness of vanity! The King and El Conde have such faith in Lerin's
                        charms that it is inconceivable to them that you should prefer another
                        knight. I feel a pity for these irresistible beauties.  They can never know the amazing triumph of the ugly man!"
                    But his laughter faded.
                    "Should they discover your lover, Antonia, they may use me as an argument to
                        make you yield. And I fear your heroism—that you may be driven to
                        yield to save me."
                    That was an argument that she had not examined when she had considered the
                        persuasions the King might use upon her.
                    "If it should be discovered between now and the time I come again what
                        fortunate one it is who holds your faith, they will be potently armed
                        against you, Antonia," he continued. "And since you would brave so much to
                        allow Juan Garcia to die in peace, to save the Jews of Aragon, to keep mine
                        honor clean, I fear you would not stop at a marriage with Lerin to save
                        me."
                    "I have sworn by the Virgin never to wed him," she said.
                    "Little maid, if they said to you, 'Behold we have discovered who it is that
                        you have loved; wed now with the Conde de Lerin, else we shall destroy this
                        insolent Ponce de Leon'—what would you do?"
                    She caught her breath and he felt the hand which he held grow nervous.
                    "Listen," he went on softly. "A hundred years ago there lived in England Anne
                        Dorset, a lady of high degree. She met on a fateful day a simple knight who
                        had nothing but a strong arm and a warm heart and a fearless soul; and since
                        that was all that the lady lacked to make her life complete, she loved him.
                        But then, as now, life's drafts lay in such a way that a wedding would have
                        moved a guardian into the kingrow. So the simple knight was imprisoned, and
                        gentle Anne was told that he would be destroyed if she did not submit to her
                        guardian's will. So in heroism she wedded the haughty nobleman who had many
                        things besides the gentle Anne to win by the marriage. Comes,  free now, the simple knight, young Robert
                        Matcham, strong of arm and warm of heart and fearless of soul. By long and
                        weary search he finds at last his lost love. And she, finding her wife's
                        duty to the nobleman by this time insupportable, contrived to see her
                        knight. And he had had his plans laid, as I have them laid; and she took
                        heart and listened to him and fled with him—too late.
                    "Matcham had his vessel at the shore, as I will have; his friend in France,
                        as I have one in Tangier; and a stormy sea to cross, as you and I will have.
                        But he ran away with another man's wife, and that, little maid, I pray you,
                        spare me,"—he touched her hand with his lips —"because I
                        want you first!
                    "So they set sail," he continued, "upon that right arm of the sea, the
                        English Channel, and the sorrow of God pursued them. The wind, full brother
                        of the ocean, mocked them; and the sea punished them, and God sped them away
                        from the refuge that they had chosen for themselves. For days they rushed
                        westward, with the storm in their sails and the black billows like
                        precipices and the shoreless waste of an unknown sea that wallowed and
                        foamed and darkened before them. And then it was that the Lady Anne learned
                        that true heroism requires sacrifice that endures to the end. And Robert
                        Matcham learned that death was better than dishonor when it was suffered for
                        love's sake. And the despair that was the beginning of repentance overtook
                        them.
                    "But the storm let go of their sails and the water crags melted under their
                        keel and a magical isle, glorious with forests and valleys and heights and
                        waterfalls, offered its harbor to them in the dawn. They landed and sought
                        to restore themselves in this new Paradise. But the winds blew up and
                        carried away their vessel. Cast away thus without hope of return to the
                        inhabited lands, they died of their sorrow and left a warning to me and to
                        you."
                    
                    After a silence she said in a subdued voice:
                    "Should I wed with any man, Beltran, I should keep my faith with him."
                    "You would not!" he said decisively. "You would follow me, as you
                        will—when I come for you, as I shall. As sure as we know that we
                        should repent and that there is no turning back from the beautiful,
                        deceptive island of love without law, you and I are no pair to withstand our
                        love for each other."
                    After a silence full of distress for Antonia, he went on:
                    "They will not destroy me. I build Ferdinand his monument. No one can do it
                        but me. He will do his engineer no harm until that is done."
                    Her sigh of relief urged him further to lighten her burden by revealing what
                        he had done toward blocking Calcena.
                    "Colon hath befriended you, Antonia. When I sought him to bid him keep his
                        knowledge within his lips, he faced me with such haughty surprise that I
                        should fear that he would do anything else that I was covered with
                        confusion."
                    "He is born of truly courteous lineage," she said. "How I wish I might
                        requite him in some manner!"
                    "How do you stand in the favor of the Marquesa de Moya? Is she impatient with
                        you?"
                    "No! Kindness itself and greatly troubled."
                    "Do what you can to employ her influence in Colon's behalf. Urge his return,
                        and so hasten your lover's home-coming."
                    "Oh, can I do that? I can! I will!" she promised.
                    "Your Irish escudero is long gone away to Portugal. Now, unless there is
                        another of whom we do not know, Calcena's witnesses are all silenced."
                    "There is one," she said after a little silence.
                    "Por Dios! Who?" he asked anxiously.
                    "Little José Valdes, Lerin's son."
                    "That is serious," he said gravely.
                    "No!" she declared. "He gave me his word not to  betray me, and he has kept it and will keep it. Were there no other cause
                        whatever, were I weak enough to love his father, I should not rob the child
                        of the debt I owe him."
                    "The boy is a reproach to his sire. But it is the way of such children.
                        Surely they are God's own, for their lineage rarely affords them their
                        unusual nobility."
                    So the night with its procession of stars moved over their heads, and Antonia
                        began to fear that her absence might be discovered. So, reluctantly and with
                        bitter protests and self-excoriations for the cruelty of the act, Beltran
                        led her back to her prison.
                    And when she kissed him she touched his wet cheek.
                    "Nay, if thou weepest for me, weep not," she said, "for I am happier this
                        hour in thy love than ever in my life. But if thou weepest for thyself, let
                        me weep with thee."
                    And after he had returned her to her chamber and had gone his way, her heart
                        was too light for the penalty of separation to lay its blight upon her
                        yet.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIX
                    THE FALL OF GRANADA
                    OVER the hills above and about Granada and across the vega
                        the lines of poplars were now in the distance like ragged tongues of yellow
                        flames. The dust of all the summer lay thick upon the olives, upon the beard
                        of monte bajo that shagged the hills, and deep and soft and powdery as
                        sallow snow upon the roadways everywhere. By night the wind so chilled the
                        air that the morning sparkled with wintry cold well into the day. The hard,
                        reddish-blue rock of the peaks and crags, that all through the summer were
                        set with uncompromising outline against the blue of the sky, began to gather
                        about them scarfs of transparent cloud, the first banners of the rain.
                    It was the first day of November.
                    The city of Sante Fe was formally occupied by Ferdinand and Isabella, their
                        forty thousand troop, and their gallant company of knights and ladies.
                    Solid the walls, manful the towers, compact was its shape as it sat,
                        immovable, strong, and persistent, flat upon the plain before the city whose
                        surrender it was meant to hasten.
                    Within the new city the markets, the storehouses, the armories were daily
                        filling with supplies, munitions of war, and commissary, securely to be
                        housed in masonry against the coming of the rains. When the winter loosed
                        its bitter blasts upon the Sierras, the roads might be obliterated now;
                        there would be no shortage in the Christian camp because a convoy were
                        destroyed or a storage tent blown away from the commissary it contained.
                    
                    Cold had inflicted deadly ravages upon the Christians among the common
                        soldiery during the intermountain campaigns, delaying the war and costing
                        enormous waste of life and property. Though the winters in Granada were not
                        distinguished for severity, they dealt their meed of exposure to the
                        indifferently sheltered fighting men and crippled the forces of the cross
                        with sickness, disheartenment, and incapacity.
                    It was the hope of the Moors that the Spanish monarchs, seeking to spare
                        their already decimated troops, would, at least, retire from the siege,
                        rather than subject their army to a winter in camp.
                    Granada was in her extremity. She sat upon her hills like a dead city. The
                        twelve gates were closed; life ceased to appear on the walls; lights no
                        longer shone by night upon the black bosom of the mountain over which the
                        capital was spread. The great army of the cross upon the vega before Granada
                        lay couchant, keeping relentless ward over the doomed city. And behind that
                        steel-clad force reared the raw walls of the new city, immovable, strong,
                        persistent.
                    At last the fierce winter raged into the Sierras. It was the Moor's last
                        hope.
                    But the former weapon fell ineffective. The twinkling windows of the stone
                        barraca by night and the smoking roofs by day, the look of plenty, and the
                        reality of comfort and strength among the Christians mocked the dying city
                        on the hills.
                    Soldiers returning at nightfall from forays, chilled, wet, hungry, and weary,
                        had, instead of their previous wretched exposure to endure, a dry hall and
                        crackling hay beds awaiting them. And it was then that they lifted their
                        voices and cheered the builder of the city of Santa Fe. And then it was that
                        the star of Beltran Ponce de Leon moved into the zenith of its career.
                        Fatuous worship that the uncomprehending masses give to the popular man
                        followed instantly upon his peculiar and spectacular achievements. Nothing
                        was impossible  for him to do; nothing was too
                        good for his reward. They used his name for climaxes in their oratory; they
                        linked him with the great of all previous time; and pulled down their former
                        idols and set him in their place.
                    Among the nobles it was a milder and a more restrained infection, but
                        distinctly developed nevertheless. The most sceptical commander admitted
                        gravely that Beltran Ponce de Leon, in building the city of Santa Fe, had
                        ended the Moorish war.
                    Duly, in view of all the conditions, in the early part of December the Moors
                        despatched a deputation of their number to negotiate the terms of surrender.
                        The King chose his craftiest advisers to confer with them and an armistice
                        of seventy days was declared, pending the possible arrival of reinforcements
                        for the Moors from Africa. But the fate of all declining states afflicted
                        them; the perjury of allies, the strife of factions, the panic of leaders,
                        and the seventy days of respite but prolonged the final misery of the
                        end.
                    On the first day of the New Year the whole city of Santa Fe rushed into the
                        great plaza and surrendered itself to the most immoderate rejoicings.
                    Granada had fallen.
                    The next morning, while the trackless snow upon the craggy chain sweeping
                        away into the icy north and south to the shining sands of the soft
                        Mediterranean mantled under the advancing dawn, the great army of Ferdinand
                        and Isabella moved into the vega from the gates of their new inviolate city
                        and passed for hours in flashing ranks up the yellow gash that was the new
                        road cut through the hill, toward the rose-colored palace of the
                        Alhambra.
                    After it the smaller but more glorious body of royal pomp moved in a nimbus
                        of its own glittering out toward the squalid hamlet of Armillia that lay in
                        ruins like a clay beehive kicked to pieces.
                    In the mountains along a highway that led ever upward,  now seen and now lost along the flanks and summits of
                        eminences toward a high hill that from that day henceforward would be called
                        "Feg Allah Achbar," a knot of travellers moved hastily as if afraid to look
                        behind them. By their white garb and their mode of travel they were seen to
                        be Moors—Moors of royal blood, but now no longer Kings, setting out
                        upon their exile.
                    In mid-morning appeared suddenly upon the topmost pinnacle of the great
                        watch-tower of the Alhambra the shining cross, the mighty standard of
                        Santiago, and the royal pennon of Castile and Aragon.
                    Whisperings of far-off music, regularly broken by remote cannonading, and
                        over it the crescendo of a mighty murmur, the cheering of the triumphant
                        army of Spain reached abroad over the prostrate kingdom that for seven
                        hundred years had fought off that morning's spectacle—the triumph
                        of Christianity over Islam.
                    Below, at Armillia, Boabdil, the deposed Moorish King, delivered the keys to
                        the sovereigns of Castile and Aragon amidst an air of the kindliest
                        consideration by the victorious princes, and then passed over the Alpujarras
                        into his valley of simplicity and vassalage.
                    And with him the little party of travellers that had set out upon their exile
                        disappeared.
                    The emptiness of the road, their sudden vanishing, like the dead leaving
                        vacancy behind them, struck to the heart of the gladdest a poignant pain. It
                        had been a little group; an escort of both Christians and Moors, the one to
                        see that they regularly and duly departed, the other that they might not go
                        alone; the defeated Boabdil, his wife, his mother, and his children; a few
                        faithful and unfaithful servants—the one to die with him, the other
                        to rob him while yet he lived. Not even a banner; not even the flutter of a
                        gay color! Mourning, stripped, humiliated, and powerless, the mountains
                        swallowed them and they were seen no more.
                    There had been no lack of valor among the Moors, no  lack of funds, no lack of genius for war. It was another
                        thing—a weakness that permeated with entoiling and corrupted
                        rootlets the bone and sinew of every Moor and his religion—polygamy
                        and concubinage, with the inevitable attendant evils of jealousy and
                        treachery.
                    The disease that dwarfed the future of Islam was planted when the harem was
                        sacerdotally confirmed. Kings of honor and virtue nourished their own
                        destruction in the women's court. Peoples that have refused to sanction
                        polygamy have been more immoral than the Moors, but it was the legal phase
                        of the vice that destroyed the political strength of the followers of
                        Mahomet. Many wives, jealous of each other, contending for the preference of
                        their sons; endless turmoil with its bloodshed over each succession; endless
                        machinations during reigns that spent their energies defending them selves
                        when the same effort would have carried the nation far ahead in furthering
                        the native genius for husbandry, art, and learning; numerous idle, useless,
                        enervated princes living upon royal bounty and without aim in life except to
                        dissipate their forces or to furnish centres about which jealousy and
                        discord could ferment; bloodshed, luxury, idleness, and vice, worthy
                        quadruplets of the harem—these were the malady of the rich, the
                        paralysis of the poor, and the downfall of the Moorish kingdom!
                    Woman and the unending mischief of her degradation, the ruin of all nations
                        that perish! How much good wasted—like wine, abused; like all good
                        savors, like comfort, ease, pleasure, wealth, honor, power, creeds, abused!
                        And the outcome, forever, ruin, poverty, shame, decay, and overthrow!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XX
                    THE WINDOW
                    THE house of the Marquesa de Moya fronted the great plaza
                        of Santa Fe, with four projecting latticed windows in the second floor and a
                        door set in a recess upon the lower floor. Its north wall stood flush with a
                        little blank alley which led under blind eaves back to the city's
                        fortifications. Upon this dark passage not a door opened, not a window
                        looked. Nothing ever appeared there. It was strikingly useless, had any one
                        in Santa Fe been disposed to be hypercritical about the city's plan.
                    But Santa Fe had neither time nor inclination to criticise superfluous
                        alleys. The new city began to fill with the nobility from the day that the
                        Moors, preceded by a white flag, had ridden across the great plaza to confer
                        with the King's representatives on the surrender of Granada.
                    All that tremendously brilliant company that composed the haughtiest and
                        wealthiest houses in Spain came now from the very wash of the Bay of Biscay,
                        the snow of the Pyrenees, the orange-scented airs of Malaga, the flowery
                        port of Barcelona to be present when the cross finally supplanted the
                        crescent upon the citadel of Granada.
                    Through the winter sunshine passed endless pageantry and show. No single
                        chance at ostentation and ceremony was let go wasted. The new city was
                        shuddering with music and shaking with tramping processions, and ashout with
                        multitudes by day, and vibrant with music and ablaze with light and noisy
                        with merrymaking by night.
                    
                    From the last window of the four overlooking the plaza in the house of the
                        Marquesa de Moya and abutting the useless little alley the prisoner of the
                        King, Doña Antonia de Aragon, watched all that transpired within the walled
                        precincts of the undefiled city of Santa Fe.
                    Her life had dropped into a set routine. The flush and excitement of her
                        first weeks of imprisonment, while her resolve was still new, departed along
                        with her tan and her slenderness. She grew marvellously fair—her
                        skin became as delicate as a child's, her coloring frail and tender. She had
                        nothing to employ her but needlework or reading, and in the very early
                        morning cool and after sunset she sat in this window which lighted her
                        prison and watched the activities of the Christian camp.
                    The heart of the Marquesa de Moya was torn between sympathy for her ward and
                        exasperation at her stubbornness. She brought every argument to bear upon
                        Antonia that her clever head suggested, exhausted every persuasion and every
                        threat. Antonia's stoical silence ensued when finally the marquesa's
                        insistence overreached the knightly damsel's patience. Then the marquesa
                        ceased to talk; instead, she seemed to study Antonia, who was disturbed at
                        this change in her guardian's manner.
                    Her alarm increased one day when she looked up from a long period of soft
                        reflection to find that her door had been quietly opened and none other than
                        the Marques de Moya stood there, looking at her while the marquesa, busying
                        herself aimlessly at the other end of the outer room, showed that she had
                        set the good nobleman on to see what he could make of Antonia.
                    Under the embarrassment of the situation and the consciousness that the noble
                        pair were suspicious and for cause, Antonia flushed. The marques turned away
                        and the door was closed.
                    Antonia hurriedly ran over every incident, every  conversation for some clue upon which they might alight to expose her
                        attachment to Beltran, but she failed to recall any evidence that would
                        betray him.
                    The tirewoman was a remote danger and Antonia rose at once and searching
                        through her possessions found a fine woollen shawl that the tirewoman had
                        always handled with great longing and gave it at once to her servant.
                    "Thou art in my confidence," she said. "Be blind, deaf, and dumb. And when I
                        am come unto mine own thou shalt have whomsoever thou wilt for thy husband
                        and a hóuse good enough for me."
                    "God save thee, lady; but what do I know?" the tirewoman asked.
                    "Nothing!" said Antonia. "Not anything! And see that thou rememberest
                        that!"
                    But the marquesa did not go to Antonia's servant. She seemed to have failed
                        to follow up the conclusions of the marques's inspection.
                    On a certain morning in December, 1491, while the negotiations for the
                        surrender of Granada were still in progress, Antonia had seen from her
                        window a tanned and bearded mariner in the dress of a pilot ride across the
                        great plaza. He was no warp-legged, weathermarred dog of the sea. Instead,
                        he was set up like a cavalier, and when he had vanished out of Antonia's
                        range of vision beyond the projecting eaves of the houses, she remembered
                        him.
                    But it was two days before she heard of the unusual one.
                    Then the marquesa came into her chamber to bring a little meed of gossip. In
                        the course of the conversation she observed that the pilot of Lepe,
                        Sebastian Roderiquez, had come with a message concerning Cristobal
                        Colon.
                    Antonia's heart leaped. Colon! The calendar upon which she reckoned her
                        lover's return!
                    "He came," said the marquesa, "from her Majesty's  old confessor, who is superior of the monastery of La Rabida
                        at Palos. The good friar, it seems, wishes to come to Santa Fe to see her,
                        and her Majesty hath sent him an invitation."
                    "Why does he wish to come?" Antonia asked.
                    "To reopen the hearing of Cristobal Colon."
                    "Have you an opinion of the Genoese, doña marquesa?" Antonia asked after a
                        silence.
                    "Oh, I might have, had I not enough opinions without Colon to exact another
                        one."
                    "Nay, but do you think he should be sent upon his expedition?"
                    "I might, if I thought about it."
                    "Think, then, good lady. I have had time to become his supporter. It is hard
                        to waste one's life on a futile hope, and so little for her Majesty to
                        stake. I saw him come from Quintanilla's tent on the way to the hearing of
                        the junta that morning when we went to Sevilla, and his face haunted me long
                        afterward."
                    Something of the marquesa's own conclusions about Antonia shaped her
                        attitude. It was indeed hard to waste one's life on a futile hope. If it
                        were possible to prevent Antonia from doing that thing, the marquesa would
                        have stopped at no sacrifice. And Colon benefited by her flush of
                        sympathy.
                    "Well, there is naught to be said against the man or his schemes," the noble
                        lady said in good humor. "Wiser heads than mine have agreed with him."
                    "Nay, then, will you aid him by your influence with her Majesty?"
                    The marquesa looked doubtful. She was chary of lending her influence over the
                        Queen.
                    "I shall wait until the occasion arises," she said. "If her Majesty asks me,
                        I shall speak in favor of the man."
                    Antonia was obliged to be content with that, for she dared not allow her
                        overeagerness to betray her. But she did not know how far her appeal had
                        carried with her ladyship until more than two weeks later. Then  the noble lady hurried into the prisoner's
                        room as Antonia sat near her window and, leaning her small weight upon her
                        ward's shoulder, said with excitement:
                    "Luis de Santangel rode by just now and said to Andres as he passed that the
                        Queen's letter had been answered, and pointed with his crop up the street.
                        Watch!"
                    "What letter?" Antonia asked mildly, surprised at the marquesa's unusual
                        enthusiasm.
                    "The Queen's answer to her old confessor at Palos."
                    The answer to the royal letter appeared at that instant. It was a monkish
                        figure, mule-back, his cassock gray with dust, his cheeks under his wide hat
                        ablaze with winter sunburn. He was elderly and full-habited, and unused to
                        hard riding. His mule was winded and ill used. The whole make-up of the
                        apparition was sore and tremulous; naught but the mule-bell seemed fresh,
                        and that, indeed, found an echo of undoubted gladness in the heart of
                        Antonia de Aragon.
                    He was Juan Perez, whose coming meant that her Majesty was prepared to
                        consider the appeal of Cristobal Colon.
                    "Nobody knows how this all came about," the marquesa went on. "Methought
                        Colon had left us for all time. But Luis de Santangel looks knowing. Beyond
                        a doubt he had something to do with it, though why he should be so
                        desperately bent upon the success of the sailor, I cannot understand. Well,
                        this is as good as a grant of the sailor's claims. If her Majesty sends for
                        him, he may come prepared to make terms."
                    Antonia said nothing; she was afraid her longing might betray itself in spite
                        of her best effort to keep it in check should she attempt to speak.
                    "How many years," the marquesa mused, "how much anxiety, how many
                        disappointments! How glad Colon should be—but how much gladder if
                        he were young and buoyant! We cannot rejoice after middle age. That is
                        another of the blessings of youth."
                    
                    Impulsively she put her arms about Antonia and pressed her cheek to the
                        girl's.
                    "Who is it, Antonia?" she whispered.
                    Startled and thoroughly frightened, Antonia held to her physical self,
                        determined not to allow her surprise to betray her even though she had to
                        search for an answer to that question.
                    "Who is it stands between you and your right to rejoice in your youth? Who is
                        it hath penned you up, and set you in disfavor with the King, and put your
                        noble suitor out of countenance before the half of Spain?"
                    "The King put me here," Antonia replied stiffly, "and I put myself in
                        disfavor with the King. The Conde de Lerin had put himself out of
                        countenance long before I laid eyes upon him. Let us not talk of this, doña
                        marquesa, there is no profit to come of it."
                    "Whoever he be," the marquesa went on gently, as if Antonia had not spoken,
                        "he has wrought you evil, selfishly and willingly. I cannot see how he means
                        to gratify himself. You are here shut away from him. He can never wed you;
                        if he be a man with the least grain of sense he knows that. Is it for no
                        more than the simple knowledge that a beautiful and desirable damsel is
                        languishing heroically for his sake that he has ruined your
                        life—ruined it for all time?"
                    "I presume," said Antonia after a silence in which she had gathered
                        composure, "that after long council and thrashing out of evidence, the
                        interested ones have decided that I cannot reasonably refuse to wed the
                        Conde de Lerin unless I loved some other man."
                    "Dear child, my lord and I see you daily. If there were no Lerin, we should
                        know that there was another."
                    With a movement of her live shoulders Antonia slipped from under the
                        marquesa's arm.
                    "Allow me to suffer the King's penalty. It is all I ask. But I shall not
                        answer questions like that, even to you, whom I love—in spite of
                        yourself."
                    
                    The marquesa sighed and moved away. Feeling a compunction for her sharp
                        speech, Antonia said presently:
                    "Will you tell me of the Queen's answer to Colon when he comes?"
                    "You may not be here when Colon comes," the marquesa said gloomily.
                    Possible exile from her lover flashed thus in her face brought Antonia to her
                        feet with a gasp.
                    "Not here!" she whispered, white of face and trembling in every limb.
                    The marquesa ran back to her and threw her arms about the girl.
                    "Tell me," she insisted. "Who is it?"
                    But Antonia undid her clasp and stepped back from her.
                    "This is a trick!" she said hotly. "You have been sent to do this by Lerin!
                        Do you think me so weak and cowardly?"
                    "Oh!" the marquesa cried, losing her composure. "If you do not answer me, you
                        must answer to the King. Why will you force an ordeal before Ferdinand?"
                    "I am obliged to you for the warning. I am glad not to be taken unaware. But
                        henceforward, I shall watchfully consider you in league with my
                        oppressors."
                    She turned back to her window, and the marquesa made her way in a mist of
                        tears out of the chamber.
                    But the noble lady's declaration that the King meant other coercion than he
                        had already inflicted wrought cruel havoc with Antonia. Some day was she to
                        be ordered to prepare, and to be led forth and married to Lerin as if she
                        were some vacant damsel of the shut-in life, instead of a knightly maid?
                        Could it be that they had come upon her romance, discovered her lover, and
                        meant to part them for all time? What was about to happen? The nights and
                        days became successive periods of suspense, dragged out in watching for
                        whatever order to come that was to separate her from Beltran.  The marquesa's silence and her altered mien,
                        the long stretches of solitude and the uncertain conditions upon which
                        Beltran's return depended, wrought her nerves to a high pitch of distress.
                        Did a royal messenger stop at the Moya door, or a serious colloquy take
                        place in the sala below, or footsteps ascend the stair at an unusual hour,
                        she waited with a painfully bated heart for her call.
                    But the capitulation of the city of Granada was imminent. This expectation,
                        she hoped, engaged the King's attention and delayed any action upon the
                        threat which the marquesa had anticipated. The monotonous negotiations while
                        the parties haggled over the terms of surrender gave her another reprieve.
                        She made her window her watch-tower. Much that transpired within the
                        councils and the forecast of many events were shadowed in the activities
                        that she beheld in the great plaza.
                    She saw the passing to and fro of the conferring Christians and Moors; she
                        saw visiting embassies from neighboring kingdoms come; and the daily
                        increasing tide of nobility that poured into the new city as the end of the
                        Moorish war became apparent to Spain. From her post she saw the tremendous
                        demonstration on the day when the capitulation of Granada was made. In her
                        window, the next morning, she saw much of that glorious drama of triumph and
                        tragedy enacted about the fallen capital. Then, knowing of the ceremonies
                        and details that pressed for immediate attention, she still had an extension
                        of time.
                    Day after day marched on; each day that passed a gain that left her fearing
                        for the one to come. The work of sleepless nights and tormenting fear showed
                        speedily upon her. A cloud settled on the marquesa's brow.
                    The house of the Moyas filled to overflowing. Antonia resisted stubbornly the
                        noble lady's attempt to quarter a noble damsel or two with her. She did not
                        mean to risk betraying herself to the eyes of maids, who,  having no veteran life to entertain their
                        lively interest, had cultivated their inquisitiveness and ability to slander
                        to an exquisite degree.
                    She saw old friends ride in whom she had not seen since the campaign before
                        Baza, noted figures that had not been seen at court since the court had
                        moved to camp. And then one day she looked down upon one that set her heart
                        leaping in her breast.
                    It was Cristobal Colon!
                    Once more like the admonition of an opportunity unseized he moved among that
                        brilliant company in a scholarly robe, cold though courtly, aloof though
                        responsive, prophetic though silent. He was no longer a suppliant. He had
                        come to make terms.
                    With her hands clasped she turned away to look up the slope of the street
                        that led in from the north.
                    From that moment on she resolved to live in her window. It would require only
                        the twinkling of an eye for a galloping horseman from the north to ride by
                        and be lost to her.
                    But she was to learn that the passage of Beltran Ponce de Leon to and fro in
                        Santa Fe was not to be so simple.
                    Beneath her window just then an Andalusian arquebusier, who had nothing to do
                        and who was full of a buoyancy of spirit that had to be expressed, stopped,
                        threw his bonnet into the air and cheered lustily. Every soldier in that
                        wide calle, and there were nearly a thousand, snatched the "viva" from the
                        lips of the arque-busier and the gentle section of Santa Fe rang with their
                        acclaim.
                    The Marques de Cadiz, whose party was riding down toward the royal residence,
                        stopped and waited. The face of the old noble lighted.
                    Then out of a side street Ferdinand at the head of his escort trotted by the
                        marques, saying something while he motioned with his gauntleted hand. The
                        marques replied with a smile, and then Antonia saw.
                    In the midst of that cheering mob of soldiery, the  mark of Ferdinand's sign, the beneficiary of the marques's
                        proud smile, was he for whom she had looked so long and so wishfully.
                    Don Francisco Ramirez de Madrid was with him, muffled to his pointed beard in
                        furs. One or two attendants with pikes and a couple of friars were in his
                        company.
                    Under that concentrated welcome from his people, his kin, and his King, she
                        thought his face showed both confusion and dismay. But the marques laid a
                        hand on his shoulder, patted it lightly, said a few words and rode on by his
                        side.
                    But under her window he carefully drew rein, dropping behind the marques a
                        pace or two. She saw that he wore a cloak lined with fur, over which the
                        golden dust of the vega lay like grains of sunshine. His visorless morion,
                        the sole bit of armor visible, showed a glinting steel rim under his velvet
                        hood. The sun was full in his face as he rode, and, with a boyish freedom of
                        movement, he raised his whole arm to his forehead to shelter his eyes as he
                        looked up.
                    She knew that he would see her. She made no effort to attract his attention
                        but stood as she had arisen, by her chair, unconscious that her hands were
                        clasped to her breast and that her face was shining.
                    Then he smiled that warm, caressing smile that seemed to envelop her with
                        comfort, to be everything that she wanted it to be, to touch her as surely
                        as the sunlight would when she stepped into it.
                    When he had passed she turned back into her chamber and lay down upon her
                        bed, weak from reaction but wholly free from her months of care. She had
                        dropped her burden into the curve of that arm which her champion had raised
                        to fend off the gaze of unsympathetic eyes.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXI
                    THE INTERCESSION OF SANTANGEL
                    WITHIN the large antechamber of the royal house, furnished
                        with Moorish trophies in seats, carpets, and tapestries, Beltran Ponce de
                        Leon and Luis de Santangel stood at a barred window as far as might be from
                        the crowd of distinguished nobles who had gathered there for audience with
                        the King and Queen. At the inner end of the chamber the double doors were
                        closed and the royal guard stood before them.
                    That morning, in sight of all these waiting dignitaries, Cristobal Colon had
                        passed within.
                    There awaited him the Queen, for Ferdinand had coldly refused to take part in
                        the hearing, Allessandro Geraldini, Cardinal Mendoza, the Archbishop
                        Talavera, the Master of Santiago, and Calcena. Quintanilla had been required
                        at that hour for the aloof Ferdinand's affairs; there had been no invitation
                        to Santangel, and, darkly apprehensive, Beltran Ponce de Leon, who had a
                        material interest at stake, and Luis de Santangel, who had a final hope to
                        foster, stood apart in the barred window and waited.
                    Among the many who drifted among the visiting nobles in the anteroom was
                        Lerin, smiling, stately, and followed about in his movements by the admiring
                        interest of whatever newcomers were in the chamber. The conde had seen
                        Beltran Ponce de Leon half concealed in the window recess, and he was moved
                        to learn what further assault upon his ambition the young engineer was about
                        to make.
                    Santangel was unconscious of any person but himself. He had met Calcena as he
                        had entered the antechamber,  and had seen his
                        enemy pass in to the hearing of Cristobal Colon. The presence of the royal
                        inquisitorial secretary in the Queen's audience was like a malevolent
                        influence —a kind of harmful spell.
                    Beltran found himself wondering at the unusual disfigurement of passion on
                        the converso's face. What was his alarm, however, when Santangel moved over
                        to him and said in an undertone:
                    "Do you know what Calcena hath planned to do? He is about to force the
                        banishment of the Jews upon their Majesties, so that the villain can reap a
                        harvest of extortions while the matter goes through long debate."
                    At last! Antonia had put it off only for a time. There, indeed, was a great
                        sum in export duties to be raised upon the banished persons, two ducats per
                        head. Well for her and for him that he had come prepared to make all
                        dowry-raising a vain effort for Lerin!
                    "Calcena was tutor to the devil!" he exclaimed in the same undertone.
                    "If I can live long enough," said Santangel, "I will kill him though I have
                        no other weapon but my teeth."
                    "Peace, Luis, be master of yourself. His Majesty will never consent to that
                        plan."
                    "But Calcena hath put the Conde de Lerin to work upon the King that this
                        dowry for his wedding may be gained and Navarre taken thereby."
                    "Maria Sanctissima!" Beltran exclaimed, panic-stricken for the moment, as he
                        saw that Santangel's funds offered to Lerin might save the Jews from
                        banishment.
                    "But it is from her Majesty we must expect the submission to the movement.
                        Calcena hath put Torque-mada to work upon her piety. It seems that she vowed
                        in her girlhood to purify Spain of all infidels, heretics, and Jews, and now
                        the inquisitor-general is confronting her with that vow to be fulfilled as
                        an act of gratitude for the success of Christian arms."
                    "The hand of the Lord is heavy upon us," the converso  continued, leaning on his palms with his elbows on the sill of
                        the window. "Exile or the flames!"
                    "Why do you not go hence in secret," Beltran asked, raising his head from his
                        own thoughts, "to Holland or to Flanders?"
                    "Because Calcena hath surrounded me with spies. He is bent upon having my
                        fortune, and should I turn my face toward the ports of Spain in defiance of
                        the law, my fortune is forfeit and myself and mine are doomed."
                    Beltran had no comfort to offer the converso.
                    "It is the extremity before the change," Santangel went on, dropping his
                        voice until it was almost inaudible. "Such depths of cruelty and evil
                        prevailed before the coming of Jesus of Nazareth and before the fall of
                        Rome. Now it must forerun some change, and that, Don Beltran, you have made
                        me to believe depends upon this Genoese."
                    In Beltran's startled mind he had both to contemplate the sudden show of
                        Santangel's Jewish soul and the fact that he had offered hope upon such
                        intangible grounds to so desperate a man.
                    "I cannot hold forth long," Santangel continued, "but I am afraid of pain. I
                        cannot bear to think of my flesh suffering. Think of your cowardice
                        governing your faith in God! But it cannot last! Some time I shall rise
                        above my fears—when I am assured that none of mine own will suffer
                        because of it!"
                    After a moment, pursuing attendant thought, he continued in a disconnected
                        manner:
                    "If men have the mind to imagine better things, such things may have an
                        opportunity to exist. I have despaired totally for myself, but I still have
                        hope for my children."
                    "Be prepared for disappointment," Beltran said earnestly, "in this sailor's
                        hearing this day. The signs are not favorable."
                    But the warning seemed to render Santangel desperate.
                    "He shall not fail!" he cried. "He is the appointed one!"
                    
                    His voice, raising above its cautious undertone, reached many of the waiting
                        persons in the anteroom.
                    "It is my personal hope," he went on after the notice he had drawn to himself
                        wandered away from him. "How it holds me! The priests' picture of heaven
                        appeals not to me as the refuge you have shaped here upon earth. That is
                        something that I can see. The other—"
                    He broke off with a despairing motion of the hands.
                    Well for Santangel that it was Beltran Ponce de Leon, of the liberal soul,
                        and none other who heard him in that fateful hour.
                    At that moment there was a sound at the great double doors. The statue-like
                        royal guard moved their arms to present, the portals swung open, and Colon,
                        his great head high, his tall figure erect, his step rapid, emerged into the
                        anteroom, strode on and out into the streets of Santa Fe. Beltran and
                        Santangel turned, looked at each other, and then Beltran hurried after the
                        Genoese. But by the time the knight reached the street Colon had
                        disappeared.
                    Concluding that he would sooner learn what had transpired in the anteroom, he
                        turned back into the royal house.
                    He met Quintanilla.
                    "What passed within?" he demanded of the auditor.
                    "I have just been told," Quintanilla said gloomily. "I fear it is at an end
                        with him. He wants too much."
                    "Too much!" Beltran exclaimed. "Is twenty thousand florins too much?"
                    "It did not come to the point of cost for the expedition," the auditor
                        explained. "Too much grandeur; too much title; too many shares in that which
                        he may discover. They labored with him. He would not hear them nor abate his
                        demands in the least. So he will leave the city for France at once!"
                    "Marry! That he will not!" Beltran exclaimed, and  hurrying through the press of courtiers that moved through the
                        double doors into the presence of the Queen, he reached Santangel's side.
                        The converso still stood by the window but there was a high flush on his
                        long cheeks and his eyes sparkled.
                    "I have asked for an audience," he said before Beltran could speak. "Her
                        Majesty will see me after this is over."
                    Thus it was taken out of the knight's hands. He found himself recurring to
                        Quintanilla's words on that windy afternoon in the Queen's Hospital.
                    "Let it be some headlong fellow who is already in as much peril as may well
                        compass a mortal head!"
                    Beltran was strongly urged to caution the converso, but Santangel's temper
                        seemed climacteric, and the knight held his peace.
                    The last of the brilliant, gorgeous nobility emerged from the hall. A
                        gentleman in waiting signed to Santangel, and Beltran followed him in.
                    The first person the engineer saw, clear and detached from the general blur
                        of faces, was Lerin. After that the setting of the audience shaped itself
                        distinctly. Knight and dame in their dark velvets and bright satins were
                        ranged according to rank on each side of the chamber, up to the colorful,
                        resplendent prelates, the glittering ladies in waiting, and the little,
                        erect-sitting figure of the Queen with a diadem on her head, the draping of
                        a rich canopy high above her, while upon the carpet before the estrada stood
                        the converso.
                    Isabella, seeing excitement in the face of Santangel, had signed him at once
                        to speak.
                    "Lady and sovereign, where is Colon? Why has he been dismissed from Santa
                        Fe?" he demanded.
                    The Queen unconsciously moved forward in her chair, while one or two of her
                        ministers seemed about to step forward. But Isabella, more woman than
                        monarch, opened her lips as if to reply to this imperious inquiry. She had
                        met insulting innuendo, covert enmity, and 
                        even cringing reproach, but never in her eighteen years' reign had she thus
                        been called manfully to account.
                    "Sent hence to carry his great project to some rival prince?" the converso
                        continued. "Can it be? Are you thus blind to the glory in his visions for
                        Spain and the supremacy of the faith? You, madame! You, who fought the Moors
                        for ten years, in the hope of a Christian Spain? You, to shrink from
                        supporting Colon! Why? What hinders you? Is there blood to be shed, vast
                        fortune to be expended, the gracious favor of God to be risked in helping
                        this great man? Or is it because you begrudge him just reward for such
                        service as no man yet has offered his sovereign and such as no sovereign yet
                        has had a chance to refuse? Is it true? And if it be not true, why is he not
                        here, before you? And if it be true, who is the coward counsellor that urged
                        you into this that I may call him that to his face?"
                    With the converso within a few feet of her, his figure taut with reckless
                        excitement, his brilliant eyes enforcing his words with their unwavering
                        gaze, the Queen looked down like a chidden child, and the color rushed into
                        her pale cheeks. The Master of Santiago, with his hand upon the hilt of his
                        weapon, was about to put himself between the Queen and her questioner when
                        Isabella detected his movement and raised her hand in dissent. The noble
                        drew back darkening with anger. If Santangel saw the effect of his words
                        upon the courtiers, he did not allow their displeasure to disturb him.
                    "Or do you fear," he continued, "that the neighboring monarchs will laugh if
                        the Genoese fails to make his dreams come true? Nay, madame, there is no
                        failure that sets controversy at rest. If he find no India, no round earth,
                        no islanded ocean sea, we shall be informed of a certainty upon a question
                        which hath troubled the sages since the beginning of time. Help the
                        searchers after knowledge, my liege! If you are not to be a conqueror, be an
                        investigator. Be a judge for the inquiring and an advocate for that which is
                        true. Tell the  world that which it has wanted
                        to know for the whole length of the world's life. Let it be learned by the
                        labor of Isabella and spread from her court to every school and university
                        over the face of the earth. Let it not be said in France and in Italy and in
                        England that Spain's poverty or her ignorance lost her the wealth of India
                        or the greatest truth in the learning of all time. Think you that Henry of
                        England or Charles of France will dispute over a tenth and a title with
                        nine-tenths pouring into his coffers and Oriental potentates calling him
                        liege? Cheap indeed were such empire, or such knowledge, at the price of a
                        title and a tenth! Cheap indeed in the eyes of all but the few who have
                        deceived you! Ask abroad, I beseech you; incline your ear to the voices of
                        many and hear that I have said what they would say. See who are ready to
                        urge you! Your loves among your friends; not one of them self-seeking from
                        Colon's plans, and all, like myself, moved lovingly by their affection for
                        you."
                    Isabella, obeying the converso's command to look about her, raised her eyes
                        to encounter those of the Marquesa de Moya, filled with tears.
                    Startled, she looked at the cardinal whose gaze had never before been so full
                        of appeal. Quintanilla had moved out of his place, his long, slender fingers
                        gripping each other until they looked pale.
                    She recalled the past hour's interview with Colon as ill-conducted and hasty;
                        and that she had never before been allowed to detach her thought from the
                        disinterested argument of his opponents, to consider it intimately and
                        sincerely. Gladly she recalled at that moment how her instinctive feeling
                        for both Colon and his claims had been favorable.
                    "Daughter marquesa," she said to the Marquesa de Moya, using unconsciously
                        her intimate salutation in the formality of the council chamber.
                    "Sweet my liege," the marquesa responded with emotion, "all that I am, you
                        made me. All that affects  your fame is my
                        dearest concern. It is the only way by which I can repay you. Let it be a
                        sign that I believe it will redound to your honor when I ask you to recall
                        the Genoese."
                    "Will your eminence answer for the church in this matter?" the Queen asked,
                        turning to the cardinal.
                    "My daughter, I may not pledge the church," the cardinal said. "Yet I offer
                        mine own convictions. As you have relied upon them so confidently in the
                        past, accept them as reliable still. Now, as ever, they are vowed to your
                        good."
                    At a word from the Queen, Quintanilla dragged his fascinated eyes from the
                        exultant face of the converso long enough to say:
                    "My liege, my love and my belief in Colon is an old tale to you!"
                    By this time Isabella was trembling with resolve.
                    "At any other time," she said with the hesitation of embarrassment, "I would
                        not refer to expense, but the Moorish war hath left us penniless."
                    From somewhere back in the lines of courtiers, Santangel caught a warning
                        flash from Beltran's eyes.
                    "Most of my jewels are already pledged. But I shall undertake the expedition
                        for Castile if I must pledge the rest!"
                    But Santangel once more bent his knee before her.
                    "Nay, madame, it is not necessary. I have sufficient funds in trust from the
                        Santa Hermandad. These are at your command."
                    "It is done, then," cried the Queen with a gust of relief. "Recall this good
                        man at once. We have wronged him by this suspense. Seek him with all speed
                        and bring him before me."
                    But Beltran Ponce de Leon was already over the threshold and away to his
                        quarters, had mounted and was gone like the wind up the streets of Santa Fe
                        in the direction that Colon had taken an hour before.
                    Those who issued from the Queen's audience into the  antechamber had something more to tell of that remarkable
                        occasion.
                    Passing out between the immovable sentries who guarded access to the Queen,
                        Santangel encountered Calcena.
                    Santangel had just prepared a refuge for his children; had so, in his
                        exaltation, risen for all time above his fear. His step, strange and
                        unfamiliar in its lightness as he passed from before the Queen had been
                        noted, but his face flashed its change upon the courtiers, as at the outer
                        doors the royal inquisitor attempted to pass Santangel, expecting as usual
                        the converso's shrinking. Instead Santangel seized him by the shoulder and,
                        spinning him around, tossed him to one side.
                    "The King's state officers before his scribes!" he said. "Learn thy place,
                        clerk!"
                    And Calcena, seeing in the converso's expression something that he could not
                        affright nor overcome, stood with his face stunned until Santangel preceded
                        him into the daylight.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXII
                    AT THE PUENTE PINOS
                    CRISTOBAL COLON'S excitement had
                        carried him rapidly a league over the road toward Loxa. He was too angry for
                        disappointment to master him yet—for his long attachment to Spain
                        to remind him of the meaning of the day's event.
                    For the third time since 1486 he had been summoned before ceremonious
                        assemblies, gravely questioned, gravely labored with, and smoothly dismissed
                        empty-handed. Against enormous opposition he had persuaded the almost
                        unpersuadable monastic scholars that there was no heterodoxy in his
                        theories. He had overcome the almost insurmountable conservatism of the
                        Spanish monarchs and had gained at last a consent to undertake the
                        expedition. He had by long siege and conscientious effort won for himself
                        fellowship among the noblest and haughtiest of that most exclusive society
                        of Europe, the grandees of Spain. He had fought with them against the Moor;
                        he had eaten of their salt; he had been improved and polished and fired by
                        association with them, as they had been educated and broadened and advanced
                        by him. And at last, he had been told that he had asked too much; that he
                        had been tolerated and that he had presumed.
                    His mule ceased to trot and was not urged.
                    The air grew shadowy and cold. Sunset and the purple hills were about him.
                        The first shrubbery of the broken country plucked at his garments as he
                        rode. The smooth, fawn-colored vega lay behind him; behind him the compact
                        new city of Santa Fe, with its tall walls, its square towers, its
                        featureless, military regularity,  a gray
                        fortress in the lap of the plain; behind him, the land that had grown dear
                        to him, and had rejected him; behind him, all his high hopes, that mocked
                        him; behind him, his dreams, wrecked in sight of the goal and blown away;
                        behind him, all that he had said and vowed, cancelled and void! His life,
                        his efforts, his determination, miserably fruitless, anticlimacteric,
                        bathetic!
                    To such pride, such a departure inflicted torment; to such sensitiveness,
                        such cause gave the extremity of pain. He could not comfort himself. If he
                        thought of his friends, he saw them holding their peace at the call for a
                        defense of him; if he thought of his enemies it was to behold them exulting.
                        And under the pressure of the injustice, his redoubtable soul rose in
                        rebellion.
                    He swore to himself that his demands were just. If the Marques de Cadiz
                        should have a duchy for winning a city, he, Cristobal Colon should have a
                        viceroyalty for winning an empire. If Alonso de Cardenas was to have a title
                        for his ability, he, Cristobal Colon, should be admiral of the ocean sea
                        that he had explored. If the commonest soldier should have spoil in the
                        territory he conquered, Cristobal Colon should have a legitimate tithe of
                        the treasure he delivered to Spain. He had not sought to wrest station or
                        goods from another; only that which he should bring back from the unknown
                        should profit him for his pains. No man who had risen to the height of his
                        thought should continue to live in the squalor of the class that thought not
                        at all. Wealth, position, and power! Should he whose wisdom enabled him to
                        bring these to the greatest kings of their day, still be subject to that
                        which he had mastered? Nay, by his soul, they were certainly the ungrateful
                        princes of Europe! At no other court would he suffer such injustice!
                    But he was going to a ruder, less lofty, less enlightened kingdom, where all
                        the weary argument and waiting and disappointment must be endured once more;
                             where he must readjust himself to new
                        usages, reacquaint himself with new men, remake influence, reconvince old
                        prejudice and old ignorance. He realized suddenly that he was no longer
                        young. He had come to Spain in the flower of his manhood, and for years he
                        had given the best of his thought and his labor to furnish Spain her grand
                        opportunity. But now he was six-and-forty. He had thought of it before, had
                        mentioned it as the age when a man should begin to look forward to rest, but
                        he had never felt it until now. The relentless fact that he was soon to fail
                        in strength, in mind, and in days struck a chill to his heart. Years to be
                        spent in persuading another monarch would make him an old man, incapable of
                        doing that which he might finally be bidden to do. For a moment he felt a
                        panic, a haste that almost immediately gave way to a depth of despondency
                        that he had never known before.
                    Slowly before his imagination passed a gray and sad procession—the
                        train of old men he had known who had wasted their lives upon a purpose to
                        no end. Poor old shapes of inventors, of preachers, of scholars, of
                        discoverers—impoverished, ridiculed, foolish—men whom he
                        had pitied, with whom he had been impatient, to whom he had none of his
                        golden moments to devote, and at the end of the feeble line he saw
                        himself—shuffling, puzzled, ragged, reviled.
                    The great shadow of the Mountain of Elvira like a black cloud crept over his
                        head. The path struggled along through rocks and shrubby growth inert with
                        the frozen grip of winter. The singing of the rivulets dashing down from the
                        great white sheets of snow above rose to him from dark ravines fringed with
                        ice. The deathlike cold of the night smote into his frame through his cloak.
                        It was age, defeat, and desolate poverty, the dark finality of death,
                        without triumph, without competence, into which he was faring.
                    Here through a stone barrier burst a stream black with depth and white with
                        foam. Yonder in the deep  hollow of the hill
                        was a night-crowned tower, the monument to two brothers who had died here in
                        battle. Haunted, bloody with conflict, famous for wasted valor and the
                        desperate resolution of death, the bridge of the River of Pines spanned the
                        toiling stream with monumental strides. No place could have been more in
                        tune with his heavy heart, more truly symbolic of the future glooming before
                        him.
                    It was then that the hollow thunder of hoofs on the rise of the causeway to
                        the bridge roused him.
                    He turned his head to see bearing down upon him a great charger with red
                        nostrils, veiled in a cloud of its flying mane. Rising above its threatening
                        head was the figure of its rider, full-armored, the thrashing of long,
                        colorless plumes shrouding the face of a pursuer.
                    Cristobal Colon thrust his hand into his cloak and seized the guard of the
                        short Turkish blade that he wore stuck in his vest and prepared to defend
                        himself.
                    But the horseman pulled up the charger, dismounted, and, holding the rearing
                        animal by the bridle, stood at his stirrup.
                    In the dim light Colon made out the young, fresh face of Beltran Ponce de
                        Leon.
                    "Stay, señor!" the young knight said. "I bring summons from her Majesty to
                        return at once to Santa Fe."
                    By this time the Genoese was trembling.
                    "I have named my terms," he said unreadily, "and they have been rejected.
                        What further can her Majesty require of me?"
                    "Nay, good friend," said Beltran with his kindly smile; "the Queen has
                        submitted. Your terms are hers."
                    Colon put out his hand, and the knight took it. For a time the Genoese looked
                        steadily and with rising composure into the young man's eyes.
                    "What day is this?" he asked finally. "I would ever remember it. And thou,
                        Don Beltran, bringer of good news, never let me forget thee all the days of
                        my life."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIII
                    AN IDOL OF THE PEOPLE
                    DON BELTRAN PONCE DE
                            LEON had returned to Santa Fe armed with much
                        scheming. Among the many things in mind, he was determined to employ the now
                        idle soldiery of the realm to hasten the work upon the Guadalquivir.
                    That morning, as he had ridden into Santa Fe, seeing for the first time the
                        new city that he had built and overflowing with happy anticipation, he was
                        utterly unconscious of notice, of the groups who looked after him, or the
                        comment that ran from mouth to mouth as he trotted toward the waiting suite
                        of his uncle, who had expected him.
                    But the Andalusian arquebusier, who had nothing to do and who had a buoyant
                        spirit at that moment in need of expression, threw his bonnet into the air
                        and cheered. And his thousand fellows all along the calle
                        cheered with him.
                    "My lord," said Beltran lightly, returning his uncle's hearty hand-clasp and
                        noting the unusual good humor in the eye of the redoubtable marques, "since
                        you have made Spain Christian your wights are bound to show you their
                        gratitude."
                    The smile in the eye of the marques showed now on that iron warrior's lips.
                        He studied the young man as if weighing the wisdom of setting his nephew
                        right in the matter of this demonstration.
                    The party, meeting new bodies of soldiery, met a new fire of cheers. And out
                        of that narrow side street emerged the royal guard and with it a smiling
                        King.
                    
                    The party of the marques halted and uncovered. But Ferdinand, drawing rein,
                        looked past the salute that his engineer gave him to the uncle.
                    "All this," he said pleasantly, motioning with his hand toward the noise, "we
                        must offset with a certain amount of discouragement or we shall have a
                        spoiled darling in our realm."
                    "Sire, leave it to Roderigo Ponce de Leon. It is his particular joy to
                        unspoil spoiled ones," the marques returned jovially.
                    Beltran, wondering, glanced at his uncle and, reading pride and satisfaction
                        under that beetling red brow, looked startled abroad at the shouting
                        soldiery and realized for the first time that he had become an idol of the
                        people.
                    Swiftly over his tanned face rushed a dismay, at sight of which the King,
                        touching his horse, laughed aloud and rode on, followed by his smiling
                        gentlemen.
                    "So long," said the marques, laying an affectionate hand on his nephew's
                        shoulder, "as thou art abashed at praise thou art safe."
                    "I am not abashed; I am frightened," Beltran said. "Whoso hears the people
                        cheer him will hear them hiss if he lives long enough."
                    "Humph! Then the happiest thing that can befall a popular idol is an untimely
                        death," the marques opined.
                    But Beltran by this time was drawing his horse down to a walk under Antonia's
                        window, and he did not hear the marques's observation.
                    When once again he rode abreast with his uncle he resumed:
                    "The idea that brought me here concerns these hallooing fellows likewise. War
                        is at end, and the first need is the restoration of our commerce and the
                        repair of our works of peace. The King's desire to make Sevilla pre-eminent
                        should be aided. Since he issued the edict that all ships must touch at
                        Sevilla that touch at  all in Spain, Sevilla
                        should be ready for the fleets that are to crowd her waters. You know the
                        extent of the work on the Guadalquivir. By the hands of a few laborers years
                        will be required to finish it. At the same time the realm will be overrun
                        with idle men, soldiers of fortune, detached vassals of dead lords whose
                        fiefs have become useless through neglect or ruin, Moorish slaves,
                        mercenaries who will escape deportation, and masses of citizens who will be
                        unable to fall into the old simplicity of life after the excitement of
                        forays, looting, and fighting. Depredations will follow these men; the realm
                        will be put to it to provide carcels or garrotes enough for them. Let me
                        have them to hasten the completion of the King's plans for Sevilla. They
                        shall be parcelled in camps, governed under the rules of war, and allowed to
                        return to the ways of peace by the method of hard and honest labor. So by
                        this time next year, if Colon returns with the gold-laden merchantmen of
                        India following his keel, we shall have the ocean at our doors and wharfage
                        enough to take care of all the treasure, by the mass!"
                    The marques heard his nephew, watching intently the animated face while the
                        plan was laid down; and when Beltran paused, he made no immediate answer.
                        Too pertinent and too wise a plan to discourage, and yet the King had
                        merrily, but withal in earnest, warned the marques that his nephew's ability
                        might prove his ruin.
                    "Shall I say all this that you have said to me to his Majesty or will you
                        meet him?" he asked finally.
                    "Speak for me," Beltran said.
                    "Good," said the marques, relieved. "I will speak this evening."
                    "Thanks. I must return to Sevilla at dawn. I shall see you again before I
                        depart."
                    He doffed his bonnet and withdrew to the roadside where the house of the
                        marques stood, while the hero of the Moorish war rode on toward the royal
                        residence.
                    
                    Ensued then a day as full of a certain kind of hinderance as it was
                        remarkable with experiences for Beltran Ponce de Leon. He could not walk
                        without interruption. His path was cumbered with companionship; his
                        activities hampered with pleasaunce. Dames and damsels in bevies made his
                        hours delightsome and confusing; titled men demanded his company, and
                        ambitious knights hung on his words. He sought out Garcilaso and Hernando
                        and held a private conference with them under the same difficulty. His visit
                        to the royal residence, to be present in the antechamber when the hearing of
                        Colon was announced, was made through a fair semblance of a formal
                        "progress." The one night that he was to spend in Santa Fe was bespoken by
                        nobles who had daughters and dowries to bestow. A headlong pursuit of Colon
                        that had taken him out of Santa Fe after the siesta, in full view of the
                        resumption of the social activities of the day, was the only way left to him
                        to overtake the Genoese without hinderance.
                    It was nightfall when he returned.
                    He went to his quarters in the crowded house of the Marques de Cadiz to
                        receive from his uncle the report of the King's approval of his plan to
                        employ the idle soldiery and the royal order to return on the morrow to his
                        labor upon the river.
                    Then Don Beltran gave himself into the hands of his squire.
                    "Make me as beautiful as may be with six months' tan upon my face and the
                        muck of the Guadalquivir ground into my soul!"
                    The squire smiled. It was the first time in his nine months of service to
                        this young knight that he had seen an indication of the national weakness.
                        So he fell to his task with the sympathy of affection and admiration.
                    With the exception of the royal residence, the houses built for the courtiers
                        in Santa Fe differed very little. Nine cities had built the new one and
                        there were, therefore, no more than nine deviations from the general plan
                             of construction. These differences lay in
                        the slope of the roof, if it sloped, or the size of the antechamber, or the
                        color of the tile, or the variety of the masonry.
                    But in the house of the Marques de Moya there was an extra chamber, for the
                        confinement of the King's prisoner, beside the one great room which the
                        marquesa, after the manner of the times, shared with all her women guests.
                        And had minute attention been directed upon the inner construction of this
                        residence, there might have been found a further difference in the dwelling
                        of the Marques de Moya not known to exist in any other house in Santa
                        Fe.
                    One stopping at the house so many paces from the side of the front as it
                        stood flush with a narrow useless alley that was utterly dark by night and
                        very little lighter by day, and having knowledge of the proper stone upon
                        which to place the proper pressure, would have been rewarded by the prompt
                        and noiseless turning of that block upon a pivot. The opening it left, large
                        enough to admit a man stooping, would have revealed a narrow and almost
                        perpendicular stairway that led in darkness between partitions deadened by
                        the rough bark of cork-trees up to a blank wall at a landing even with the
                        second floor.
                    With the same exclusive acquaintance with the secret of construction one
                        could have pushed a panel of this partition back along perfectly oiled
                        grooves, exposing an ancient arras perforated by time with worn spots,
                        through which a fragmentary but serviceable view of the room it adorned
                        could be had.
                    This room was the chamber and prison of Doña Antonia de Aragon.
                    When Don Beltran Ponce de Leon, wrapped to his light heels in a lead-colored
                        military cloak and covered to his eyes with his hat and to his lips with a
                        muffler, which incognito his immense popularity in Santa Fe had made
                        precautionary, stepped out of sight into this passage, his squire, similarly
                        cloaked, knew that the reason of the alley's existence was about to be
                        explained.
                    
                    His instructions were to loiter in the precincts until he saw his master
                        again.
                    Mounting guard at the mouth of the alley, he gave a backward glance down the
                        black crevice in time to see his master vanish, as truly as if the earth had
                        swallowed him up, somewhere along the side of the house of the Marques de
                        Moya. Then it broke with a great light over this simple youth why Antonia de
                        Aragon languished in prison and why Don Beltran led an austere life in spite
                        of his youth and his gayety and his charm.
                    Antonia for a time was satisfied simply to know that her lover was in Santa
                        Fe; for a time she was satisfied with the many glimpses she had had of him
                        that day, the unfailing upward flash of his dark eyes toward her window as
                        he passed, offsetting the twinge of jealousy she felt beholding him
                        flattered by the dames and damsels who disapproved her. But by evening these
                        poor morsels had only made her heart hungrier. Soon he must be gone. He had
                        promised her much that was mysterious upon this visit. She would be
                        satisfied if it were only a message slipped to her by some unimaginable
                        way.
                    She had her evening meal, sent away the doncella with the salver, and took
                        down from her press a dress of white samite that she wore upon formal
                        occasions in attendance upon the Infanta. It was a voluptuous thing made
                        with the bewitching old-time surcoat. The sheen of the royal silk upon her
                        round arms, about her slender waist, and in the deep folds of the skirt,
                        clothed her with a kind of radiance, out of which her loveliness seemed to
                        be too much beauty. She blushed as she looked it over and laid it down;
                        rejected the pink one as too much damaged by its association with Lerin, the
                        blue as too cold, the mulberry as too mature, the green and black with a
                        faint flowered brocade as too much embellished; and at last she took up the
                        samite gown and made light of its offensive loveliness.
                    When her tirewoman appeared the servant looked her inquiry.
                    
                    Antonia had no explanation; she could not explain to herself. Beltran was in
                        Santa Fe. Though thick walls lay between them, though the night shut out the
                        surreptitious communication of glances at her window, she would dress in
                        honor of his presence in the city.
                    "Put it on me," she commanded her tirewoman. "I have worn nothing gay for
                        months and it may be never before I can dress for a feast."
                    The tirewoman bit her lip. She had learned by long association with Antonia
                        that demonstration was unwelcome. But she dressed her mistress with
                        scrupulous care and looked her over as she had done when Lerin had been
                        expected, and then withdrew to a corner of the chamber.
                    But the sight of herself in her glass had an effect upon Antonia that
                        astonished the tirewoman. Before that fair image, wonderfully beautified by
                        months of shelter and softened and made tender by inactivity, a kind of
                        desperation, as if the knightly maid's love of life and her primitive desire
                        to love and be loved had met bafflement, displayed itself in an unusual
                        manner in Antonia of the calm Aragonese blood.
                    She seemed about to tear off the beautiful dress. And then, to her
                        tirewoman's complete dismay, she threw herself on her bed and buried her
                        face in the pillows.
                    When, timidly, the tirewoman touched her Antonia threw off her hand.
                    "Madre de Dios!" she cried fiercely. "Can I not have mine hour to weep?"
                    This vehement sentence stopped the half-formed intent in the mind of the
                        tirewoman to summon the marquesa, and after a little hesitation she
                        concluded wisely to leave her mistress to herself. Accordingly she stole to
                        the door and went softly out.
                    Totally depleted with her long resistance against despair, Antonia lay upon
                        her bed, feeling somehow that she had flung herself there forever. Her room
                        had always been curiously still. No sound ever penetrated it  from without unless her window were open.
                        Now, benumbed by her feeling, she was conscious of nothing but herself.
                    Finally, however, as if hearing it across a waking dream, she became aware
                        that some soft voice was saying:
                    "Prithee, sweetheart, look up that I may know what manner of welcome to
                        expect."
                    She raised herself and gazed with unbelieving eyes at the apparition of
                        Beltran Ponce de Leon leaning against her door with a smile on his lips and
                        his fingers still upon the bolt as he had slid it. So much enmeshed with her
                        sorry thoughts, she doubted her vision. With slow steps and a fixed gaze she
                        moved toward him. The smile on his lips was brightened by the flash of his
                        teeth, and then his impulsive laugh roused her.
                    "Come, touch thy ghost!" he bade her. "See! I am real, quick, and warm!"
                    "Ay," he added softly, with his cheek on her hair and his arms pressing her
                        none too steadily, "and gladder to be so than ever before in all my
                        life!"
                    Then a belated confusion and a doubt about his right in her bower drew her
                        away from him.
                    "Forgive me," he said, understanding her expression. "There was no other way
                        but to take thy castle by strategy. When the plans called for this extra
                        chamber, I made sure it should be no prison for my love."
                    "You—you—" she began, hesitating while her eyes ran about
                        the room.
                    "I knew this was to be the Moya house; so I hired an old German rascal to
                        swing me a willing stone in the foundation and build me a stair to your
                        bower. Had I not done so, how else could Ponce come to lead his bride to
                        marriage?"
                    He dropped his cloak to his heels and stood forth bravely arrayed in
                        pearl-gray satin and mouse-colored velvet with silver-lined slashings and
                        aiglets of bullion, side-arms of gilt set with ultramarines, and a short  capa of azure velvet fastened across his
                        chest with a silver cord looped over square jewelled buttons.
                    "Behold me! This is my wedding livery! Do I look the bridegroom?"
                    "You are unsurpassed," she said tenderly. "But that is no bridegroom
                        livery."
                    "Why not?" he demanded. "Except that it is modified in deference to mine
                        infernal hair, this is the very pinnacle of fashion for men who are to be
                        married."
                    But Antonia shook her head and Beltran gazed at her under wrinkling
                        brows.
                    "This is the third time!" he said. "But thou shalt have no reason to refuse
                        me now!"
                    Again she shook her head and Beltran twirling her chair into position sat
                        down upon it and contemplated her fixedly.
                    "Stubborn, obstinate ladybird! Never was a man so conveniently situated to
                        have his own way, even though a King opposed him, and—by the
                        mass!—his insurmountable difficulty is the damsel who will not have
                        him."
                    "Shall I work your ruin?" she asked.
                    "Gramercy!" he exclaimed with impatience. "Let a man take care of
                        himself!"
                    Antonia's lips parted as if to answer, and a swift color of hurt and surprise
                        swept over her face. Repentantly he went to her as she stood in the spot to
                        which she had first retreated.
                    "Nay, forgive me, dear. But even thy sweet concern for me cannot make up to
                        me for my disappointment. I fetched hither with me from Sevilla one of these
                        friars whom the law of neither God nor man can prevent from a secret use of
                        his office, so there be gold enough behind it. A better minister should seal
                        our marriage, but better ministers stand in fear of the King. This priest is
                        prepared to make us one. Garcilaso de la Vega and Hernando Perez del Pulgar
                        will be our witnesses, and ere the hour is out thou canst  take unto thyself safety from Lerin and
                        assure unto Beltran a peace of mind of which not even the King can rob
                        him."
                    "Jesús!" she breathed in a panic; "what will the King do?"
                    "The King need not know, except under evil circumstances. Lerin happily
                        coquetteth with the Duque de Medina-Sidonia, believing fatuously that
                        Ferdinand does not see it. You are not imprisoned for flouting Lerin but for
                        rebelling against the King. Could we keep Lerin coquetting, and you in
                        rebellion, perchance you might still be spared an explanation to the King
                        until I can finish my work and fly with you."
                    "But suppose—"
                    "Ay, suppose you are brought to the King and bidden incontinently wed with
                        Lerin?"
                    She nervously clasped and unclasped her hands and gazed at him.
                    "It is written, dear heart, that a King may not wed a free-born woman against
                        her will, but who, in God's name, can enforce the law upon a monarch? Naught
                        can save you but that you are already a wedded wife," he concluded.
                    "Nay, but I fear me I should then incontinently become a widow!" she
                        whispered.
                    "Not so fast!" he smiled. "I build Ferdinand's monument. No man in Spain can
                        do it but me, not even Don Francisco Ramirez de Madrid. Certes, he will not
                        halt the building of his heart's desire to wreak vengeance about milk
                        irretrievably spilled."
                    "Why can I not remain here as I have done?" she asked.
                    "Because they will have brought Lerin your dower by a means that I cannot
                        estop. Because the maid who may keep Lerin wavering in his loyalty to the
                        King is the beloved of Garcilaso de la Vega. He will not see her sacrificed
                        to this alien gallant. Soon Lerin will be beaten off his pursuit of Doña
                        Sancha. Then he will  turn to you and the
                        King. The dowry provided, Lerin willing—all that remains is to
                        instruct the priest—and I must be your wedded lord to defend you at
                        that hour!"
                    Trembling, she drooped her head, and Beltran put his arm about her as she
                        stood beside him.
                    "I must ever affright thee with causes and effects, dear heart; I have ever
                        driven thee into submission by fear—all the way from the
                        beginning—when the sole reason I should offer thee should be that
                        it would delight thy poor lover to have him a wife! Let me argue instead
                        that I have given myself too much advantage here; that come I will, but with
                        lighter heart as a wedded man, as thy lawful comforter and protector! Forget
                        our troubles and consider our love! Pray thee, Antonia, wed me in thy
                        greatness of heart and make me the happiest knight in the world!"
                    After hesitation that he weakened more and more with the softest persuasion,
                        she undid the hands locked about her and went to her press. Taking therefrom
                        a cloak and wimple, she laid them upon a chair while she looked for heavier
                        shoes than the ones of white cloth that she wore. These found, she sat to
                        make the change, and Beltran was kneeling before her, when the latch of the
                        door clicked smartly against the bolt.
                    Beltran, without rising, put out his hand and took both his cloak and plumed
                        hat at one movement. The latch was rattled imperatively.
                    "Open, Antonia!" the voice of the marquesa came from without.
                    "I shall know all," whispered Beltran, "from my watch-tower. I shall
                        wait."
                    On noiseless feet, he reached the great arras and dis-, appeared behind it.
                        Antonia tossed her cloak, wimple, and shoes back into her press, and, though
                        not yet in command of herself, she threw back the bolt and opened the
                        door.
                    Without, dressed for the open, stood the marquesa, quite white and trembling.
                        Behind her was the tire-'  woman. The pair
                        stepped in and closed the door before either spoke.
                    "Antonia," said the marquesa, "the King commands you to appear at once before
                        him."
                    Antonia steadied herself with a hand on her chair back.
                    "There is naught for you to do but obey," the noble lady went on in a manner
                        even less composed than the knightly maid's.
                    "Were you told what he wants of me?" Antonia asked finally.
                    "Oh, child, I can only guess!"
                    Slowly, then, Antonia turned from her support, cast one glance at the arras
                        that hung between her and the liberty that she had been late in accepting,
                        and signed to the tirewoman. The servant brought out the cloak and wimple
                        with Beltran's touch still warm upon them as he was making his lady ready
                        for her wedding. Silently Antonia submitted to be dressed.
                    The marquesa with her lips pressed tightly together moved restlessly about,
                        clasping the fingers of one hand in the other.
                    The tirewoman rose, put the mantle over the damsel's shoulders and the wimple
                        over her head.
                    "Lead on!" said Antonia to the marquesa.
                    When the marquesa had passed down the stair through the sala into the
                        antechamber and out of the door, the first person that she encountered was
                        Don Beltran Ponce de Leon.
                    The marquesa responded nervously to his courtly greeting and allowed him to
                        assist her to mount her palfrey and to arrange Antonia's foot-mantle. But
                        Antonia, feeling the touch of his hands and hearing the one word, "Courage!"
                        took from that brief meeting the last comfort she was to know.
                    When Beltran saw the last of the little party, led by attendants and lighted
                        by a pair of links, disappear in a dusty radiance down the dark street
                        toward the royal  residence he set off in the
                        opposite direction to walk off his impatience until Antonia should be
                        returned to her prison.
                    "If she ever gets back to her chamber," he vowed to himself, "I shall wed her
                        before dawn!"
                    He assembled his ideas and braced himself with resolution to endure her
                        ordeal as the wiser course and walked swiftly under the stress of his
                        anxiety.
                    And it was his unconscious fast pace through the narrow street under the
                        lowering black eaves of his city which attracted his attention to the fact
                        that there were footsteps behind him as rapid as his own.
                    He turned along the open place beside the city's fortifications and,
                        recalling that he might not see Antonia return, wheeled about and retraced
                        his steps. Then it was that he saw the two men who had been walking as
                        swiftly as he. They stopped and he passed them well under the shadow of the
                        wall. By the time he reached the plaza and made another turn upon his tracks
                        he was surprised to meet them again. At the door of the marquesa's house he
                        halted suddenly and looked back.
                    They were not ten paces behind him, and this time directly under a torch.
                    The light revealed to him the faces of two well-known members of the Santa
                        Hermandad.
                    Fate had made bare her hand: he was under an open surveillance by the
                        Inquisition!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIV
                    CALCENA MAKES A FURTHER INVESTIGATION
                    THE titled gentlemen in waiting were laying the table for
                        a game of truecos by the time the Marques de. Cadiz had brought his
                        interview with Don Ferdinand to a close. The Conde de Lerin had proved to be
                        the best billiard player in Spain, and the monarch, waiving his own claim
                        thereto, had impressed upon his nephew the tedious task of teaching his
                        uncle how to excel.
                    Lerin was there, moody, stately, and unresponsive, for the task lost flavor
                        without relief night after night.
                    He was regarding Ferdinand with slowly accumulating animosity. Something was
                        convincing him that the Spanish King's dilatory procedure in the matter of
                        his marriage was not without a motive. Now, as he stood aloof while the
                        Marques de Cadiz laid down Beltran's plan to employ the discharged soldiery,
                        he said to himself with a French imprecation that the King meant to accept
                        the idea.
                    His bitter predictions came true promptly.
                    "That is excellent," said Don Ferdinand. "It solves a problem that has
                        already begun to vex the provinces. The alcaldes should be notified to hold
                        all returned soldiers who do not take up their avocations for disposal at
                        Don Beltran's hands. I shall bid the Adelantado of Granada to assemble all
                        still within the borders not upon garrison duty to follow him immediately to
                        Sevilla. So inform him for me. And bid him begone, for he will find it no
                        child's play to handle an army and tame the Guadalquivir at the same
                        time."
                    The marques bowed low and left the royal presence.
                    After half an hour spent in disposing of several small  matters brought to the King's attention by three or four
                        waiting noblemen, the King had the chamber cleared and turned with a sigh to
                        his evening relaxation.
                    But Lerin, playing with a blazing eye and a nervous hand, lost steadily.
                    "How now, sir?" exclaimed the King, observing the shambling manner. "What
                        ails you?"
                    Lerin threw down his cue like a petulant child.
                    "Ventrebleu, my liege!" he cried. "How can a man play with his mind on his
                        losses?"
                    The King sat down in a chair set for his convenience near at hand.
                    "Losses?" he repeated calmly. "You mean your delays."
                    "Call them what you will, sire. A delay becomes a loss if prolonged
                        enough."
                    "Prolonged?" the King repeated with that exasperation to Lerin that a
                        repetition always effects in an argument. "You came in May; this now is
                        January. Eight months. I contended with the Moors ten years. It was worth
                        the long war to take the Moorish kingdom. Antonia de Aragon, fair of face
                        and of kingly blood, is worth a longer wait than this—especially
                        with one hundred thousand gold ducats with the prize."
                    "I am no nearer the prize than I am to the lady," Lerin retorted.
                    "Patience, Jaime! It is my next project. A thing at a time, kinsman. Hothead
                        haste hath undone more kings than deliberation."
                    Lerin took up the cue that he had thrown down and chalked it.
                    "Forgive me, if I show a froward spirit," he said. "I am not practised in
                        suffering affronts from women; nor in waiting on gains from a patron's hand.
                        Before I came to Spain, what I wanted I took! And I lived honorably. If I
                        cannot live thus in sight of the haughty society of Spain, pray, give me
                        leave to depart, my liege, to my own support and mine own alliances."
                    
                    From under the rim of his velvet hat the King cast his keen blue eye at his
                        nephew's face. The Lerin whom he had invited to Spain, the warrior, the
                        leader of factions, and the power to be courted for the winning of Navarre
                        had vanished under a superficial, exacting, irritable favorite. And yet
                        Ferdinand had seen Lerin disappear too often within the doorway of the
                        residence of that iron baron, the Duque de Medina-Sidonia, for the King to
                        believe that his nephew had deteriorated. Medina-Sidonia would not make a
                        companion of such a man as now appeared before Ferdinand. Never for a
                        moment, the King told himself, would it do to grant Lerin's request, asked
                        with such skilful assumption of petulance, with such determined animus
                        behind it.
                    "If you have lived thirty years without an affront from a woman, Jaime, you
                        have had an immunity that none else of us has enjoyed. But you quarrel with
                        me on the eve of fair sailing. The first revenues from our new territory are
                        soon due. The treasure, no longer to be expended upon the war, accumulates
                        in our coffers. You have abode with me in patience until your patience is
                        about to be rewarded, and then you fly in my face."
                    "Pardon," said the conde briefly. "I had been led to believe by your counsel
                        with the Marques de Cadiz but now that you meant to keep an army
                        longer—not in arms, but at labor."
                    Thus Lerin laid down his demand that expenditures cease until his fortune was
                        assured, and thus the King answered him:
                    "But, sweet nephew, must your King give over his plans to your disposal?"
                    And so the King replied that Lerin was to abide a dependent and upon the
                        King's pleasure.
                    Lerin eyed him for a moment and, recalling that he had still an offer to make
                        before a breach should occur, inclined his head and said with good
                        humor:
                    "Never! Too little pleasure comes to the good King that I should ever stand
                        between him and an hour's recreation."
                    
                    "Play, then, and play decently," said the King, prepared for that which was
                        to follow.
                    Some time after, when Lerin's hand showed excellent control and his eye
                        impeccable aim, the King halted, and Lerin broached the expected matter.
                    "Quintanilla, compiling his census, contrived in some way, at Calcena's
                        request, to afford a tolerable estimate of the number of Jews in
                        Spain—an amazing number."
                    "How many?" the King asked.
                    "Almost two hundred thousand."
                    "Two hundred thousand! That is a tremendous army of artisans and
                        money-changers," Ferdinand averred.
                    The remark disconcerted Lerin, as Ferdinand had intended it should. Lerin had
                        not meant that the King should see the use of the Jews.
                    "If they amount to such a number, they pay a generous tax, for they are a
                        thrifty if not a wealthy people," the King concluded.
                    "How tremendously repugnant, though, to Christian Spain!" the conde
                        observed.
                    "Oh, ay, but a King searching dowries and revenues values his subjects by the
                        amount of income they afford."
                    "It is the cry of the purified in this Catholic land that none but the pure
                        in faith shall live within its borders," Lerin declared.
                    The King resumed the game.
                    "Calcena calculates," Lerin went on, "that at an export duty of two ducats a
                        head the banishment of the Jews would enrich the royal treasury by almost
                        four hundred thousand ducats."
                    "Calcena fails to calculate," retorted the King, "that, once the treasury is
                        glutted with four hundred thousand gold ducats from the export of Jews, it
                        is the last Spain will ever have from these people. Once banished, they pay
                        no more taxes unto this crown!"
                    "Your Highness, then, is opposed to this growing outcry against the Jews?"
                        Lerin asked bluntly.
                    
                    "Fair nephew, the Jews may remain in Spain for all of me," Ferdinand
                        answered. "But"—and a frown for a moment clouded the calm forehead
                        of the monarch— "the Christian zealots of this realm may oblige me
                        to exact a rent of mine unwelcome subjects."
                    "Rent!" Lerin repeated hopefully. "An immunity fund?"
                    "Not enough, however," said Ferdinand slyly, "to satisfy my thrifty Calcena
                        or my viceroy-to-be over Navarre. Only enough to help me pay my war
                        debt."
                    Something of the rage that swelled Lerin's breast and kindled his eye the
                        royal tormentor detected, though he fixed his gaze upon the little brass
                        ball and with great niceness levelled his cue.
                    "However," he said after he had delivered the stroke, "I shall fetch you a
                        dowry, sweet nephew, and a bride."
                    After a silence, in which the King played vigorously and the conde with half
                        a heart, Ferdinand straightened himself and, watching Lerin miss, said
                        quietly:
                    "Can you not in some way smooth over this old folly with Doña Marta
                        Valdes?"
                    "Sire, Doña Antonia had her excuses long before the unhappy story of Doña
                        Marta leaked out," Lerin declared.
                    "What make you of it?" the King asked. "Were you not ardent? Did you fail in
                        the gentle art? Certes, you could not come short of her expectations in mien
                        and gifts."
                    "I did my best!" Lerin declared.
                    The King had his doubts. He had seen Lerin in the company of Antonia and in
                        the company of the golden damsel, and Ferdinand knew which maiden had
                        contemplated Lerin at his best.
                    "Then," said Ferdinand, "the lady loves another."
                    This statement elicited an exclamation of incredulity from Lerin.
                    "She said—" he began, but stopped under the laughter in Ferdinand's
                        eyes.
                    
                    "Now, who the devil can he be?" he broke out after a fulminating silence.
                    "That, fair nephew, will be my immediate pains to find out."
                    He beckoned to the royal chamberlain and bade the good old nobleman summon
                        Calcena. After the space of a few minutes passed in exasperated silence by
                        the Conde de Lerin the royal inquisitorial secretary bowed at his patron's
                        side.
                    "Juan," said Ferdinand without turning his head, "we are agreed that your
                        surmise of the cause of Doña Antonia's behavior is correct. Peradventure,
                        since you were exact in that, you may go further and name us the
                        culprit."
                    "Nay, sire; it strained a cleric's mind to guess that the lady was in love.
                        It must needs be a duenna to tell you more."
                    "A duenna, indeed!" Lerin exclaimed. "Send for her duenna."
                    "I commanded the dismissal of her servants," said the King. "Think you that
                        the serving wench may yet be found?"
                    "The marquesa doubtless retained her, thinking that the damsel would
                        surrender to your will in time."
                    "Send for her, then. But let this examination be held before me. I would have
                        this testimony first-hand, even though it issue from the lips of a servant,"
                        Ferdinand commanded.
                    Calcena repeated the order to an attendant and returned to his place beside
                        the King and the conde.
                    "It is just as well," Calcena resumed, "to be armed with some facts, some
                        clue—for these duennas, if they stand in the confidence of their
                        mistresses, are as slippery as fish to pin down upon mere questioning. A
                        clue—it is a great persuasion. Have you met any other interference
                        except the lady's reluctance?"
                    "Interference!" Lerin repeated, angrily, "I have met nothing but
                        obstacle."
                    
                    "Just what?" Calcena asked consolingly. "One example!"
                    Lerin hesitated. The King's expenditure of his fortune constituted the whole
                        of his obstacle, but he was chary about naming that before his royal
                        benefactor.
                    "The little matter of the Lady Valdes, for one," the King said with a
                        smile.
                    "That," said Lerin flatly, "appeared after Doña Antonia had refused to wed
                        with me except under coercion."
                    "Nothing else?" Calcena asked.
                    "Nothing," said Lerin moodily after a silence.
                    "Barring, of course, the expenditure of her dowry on plans of my own," said
                        the King, continuing his torment.
                    "Ay," Lerin flared, "one would think it was Beltran Ponce de Leon who is your
                        nephew instead of Lerin!"
                    At this Ferdinand laughed heartily. But while he laughed he saw a change
                        flash over the face of Lerin. His great frame stiffened, and his black eyes
                        narrowed with concentrated thought as they stared at the King.
                    "Cuerpo de Dios!" he cried in a sudden gust of wrath.
                    "Have I found him? Is it possible? Can it be that red-haired poltroon
                        himself?"
                    "What? Who?" Ferdinand exclaimed, surprised out of his mirth. "Beltran Ponce
                        de Leon?"
                    "By Heaven!" Lerin cried in a loud voice. "I thought it was ambition, that he
                        was too cold, too brilliant, that he was spending these fortunes to make
                        himself a great name."
                    "Stop!" the King commanded. "This is too improbable. We shall have better
                        evidence before we make an accusation."
                    Calcena shut out the sight of the King and the conde and with concentrated
                        effort followed his own conclusions. If Don Beltran were spending the
                        nation's revenues to prevent the bringing of a dower to Antonia, could it
                        have been he who had prevented the first step —the extortion of the
                        treasure from the Jews of Aragon?  He had been
                        freed from the ruin that day by the person who had represented himself to be
                        the dead messenger, Juan Garcia. He could not have known Antonia de Aragon
                        at that time; he could not have known of any movement to provide a dower nor
                        any of the circumstances by which Calcena had expected to obtain it. But the
                        probability that Don Beltran was pushing this effort against Antonia's
                        marriage on a sudden convinced the royal inquisitor that Don Beltran knew
                        more of that mysterious meddler than he had admitted.
                    Lerin, who had drawn away from his royal uncle after Ferdinand's reproof, was
                        now near to the inquisitor.
                    "On the day of Don Beltran's rescue," said Calcena in an undertone to the
                        conde, "did you see him? Could he see you?"
                    "I saw no one," Lerin answered irritably, "but a boy and an Irishman. I was
                        charged by this same Don Beltran to give you no information that I might
                        have. If I had it—by the mass!—you should have it
                        now."
                    "Aha! So he quieted every one who saw this boy, Colon and the Irishman!" said
                        Calcena. "I think, my lord, you have started the fox."
                    "Verily! He hissed on Santangel to send Colon away on this golden guess; he
                        carried this Irishman away with him when he went to Sevilla."
                    "He did! He did!"
                    "I saw him go!"
                    Calcena turned quickly away. The duenna, Catalina. was shown into the
                        presence of the King.
                    "One question!" Lerin cried.
                    "Out with it!" the King said impatiently and, in an aside: "These excitable
                        Frenchmen make my head ache!"
                    "One question!" said Lerin in a low voice to the duenna. "Does Doña Antonia
                        de Aragon love Beltran Ponce de Leon?"
                    "Sir," the terrified woman answered, "how can I tell?"
                    
                    "How can you tell?" Lerin exclaimed.
                    Ferdinand drew in his breath as if his nephew's violence was inflicting pain
                        upon him and made a quick motion to Calcena.
                    "Suffer me, my lord," Calcena said, stepping between Lerin and the half-dead
                        Catalina.
                    "Do you know whom my lord means when he asks about Don Beltran Ponce de
                        Leon?" he asked gently.
                    Catalina, more horrified at his sinister face than she had been at Lerin's
                        threatening manner, answered under the hypnosis of his brilliant eyes.
                    "No," she whispered.
                    "A red-haired knight," Calcena explained softly, "with dark eyes; a slender
                        man, young, and not uncomely."
                    Catalina, gazing with fascination at the secretary, had a vision of a windy
                        Sabbath, long ago, and of a red-haired knight with his cloak about her
                        mistress, who had made her go back to her prayers in the Queen's chapel.
                    She nodded.
                    "Ah!" said the secretary with satisfaction. "Do they meet?"
                    Again the woman nodded.
                    "How can they?" Ferdinand exclaimed angrily. "She has been confined eight
                        months. The marquesa would not thus negligently obey me. It cannot be. The
                        man has not been in Granada since last July, until this day."
                    "When do they meet and how?" Calcena continued.
                    "Once, a long time ago," the duenna said; "on a windy day at the Queen's
                        chapel. And on the night of the fire he took her to his uncle's tent."
                    "Have you carried letters," Calcena pursued, "note or word from her or from
                        him?"
                    "No; never," answered the duenna.
                    "Let her go!" Ferdinand commanded shortly, unwilling that an accusation
                        should halt the work on the Guadalquivir. "I am not convinced."
                    
                    Catalina retired after Calcena had given her a slight push toward the
                        door.
                    "I am!" Lerin declared.
                    "This is a simple coincidence!" Ferdinand retorted. "On that evidence you
                        could accuse any man in Santa Fe. A windy day, forsooth, in the chapel! And
                        the night of the fire he offered her a courtesy. Folly!"
                    But Calcena's head had lowered, stretching forward upon his neck almost at a
                        right angle with his shoulders.
                    "Right, my liege; this evidence is insufficient. But we can learn many things
                        from Don Beltran upon direct examination," he said.
                    "I have ordered no such thing!" Ferdinand said haughtily.
                    "True, sire. But an Irishman whom Don Beltran helped away was a heretic under
                        suspicion by the Holy Order of the Inquisition. Your Majesty's engineer is
                        guilty of aiding a reviler of the faith to escape."
                    "He—because he helped this heretic to escape," Lerin stammered, "he
                        is amenable to the Inquisition?"
                    "He is," said Calcena. "It is a grave offense. The penalty is severe."
                    A gray pallor spread over Lerin's dark face, and he turned his back upon
                        Calcena.
                    "You may be wrong, eh, Jaime?" Ferdinand asked anxiously, giving Lerin a
                        chance to retract.
                    "No!" said Lerin as if with effort.
                    The King suddenly brought his clenched hand down on the arm of the chair in
                        which he sat.
                    "Now, mark me!" he said harshly. "I will interfere if the Suprema attempts to
                        proceed against this young man. I mean to have the Guadalquivir improved,
                        that Sevilla may be the port I have planned she shall be. No one in Spain
                        can do this work but young Ponce. He shall not be molested until this work
                        is done. I have spoken!"
                    "But after the work is done?" Calcena inquired anxiously.
                    
                    "My interest in him ceases after he has done my work," the King answered
                        after a silence.
                    "In the meantime," Lerin demanded, "shall he continue to feed the girl with
                        fool fancies and fix her in her stubbornness—cheat me of my rights
                        and cast your plans in your teeth, my liege?"
                    "Your loving concern for your King's dignity," said Ferdinand coolly,
                        "springs from the same source as your loving concern for your own welfare.
                        It has not been proven to me that Don Beltran is invading your rights, sir.
                        However, to clear him rather than to please you, I shall see that he is
                        watched henceforth."
                    "Sire," put in Calcena, "since he is already convicted of interfering with
                        the Holy Order, which must hold off its hands until such time as your
                        Majesty hath done with him, pray, resign the surveillance to the
                        Inquisition."
                    Ferdinand looked at his secretary with cold animosity.
                    "Can you never be satisfied, Calcena? What mortal evil has this poor wight
                        wrought you that you glisten at the eye and lick your lips in anticipation
                        of his undoing?"
                    Calcena, thus directly questioned as to his reasons, remembering his unfealty
                        to his King, literally quailed.
                    "Go! Set your hounds after him!" the King continued after a moment.
                    Calcena backed away, without raising his eyes, until he was clear of the
                        apartment. But the instant he was across the threshold, he despatched a
                        message to the Santa Hermandad for the immediate use of two members of the
                        police, who were to locate Don Beltran Ponce de Leon forthwith and to
                        maintain constant surveillance over him until such time as they were ordered
                        to arrest him.
                    The King then turned toward Lerin, who visibly waited some distance from the
                        royal seat.
                    "Now," he said, "we shall question Doña Antonia."
                    The chamberlain approached and was instructed to summon the Marquesa de Moya
                        and her prisoner.
                    
                    "I pray you," Lerin said nervously, "spare me this interview."
                    "I doubt not," said the King, "that Doña Antonia would make me the same
                        prayer. I have been much accused and reproached at your hands, sir. We shall
                        take a definite step toward settling all. Pray, delight me with your
                        presence."
                    He emptied the chamber of all the gentlemen in waiting. When the chamberlain
                        announced that the marquesa had come there was none within hearing but the
                        four primarily interested in the interview.
                    The King put his arm over the back of his chair and regarded Antonia with
                        astonishment. He was an admirer of beauty to the point of weakness, and he
                        was surprised to find this girl, who had followed him and his intrepid queen
                        as intrepidly through ten years of warfare, was beautiful. Lerin looked at
                        her with the first candid interest he had shown in her since he had pome to
                        the Christian camp. In her gown of samite woven with gold, with all the
                        beauty that from her mirror had mocked her to desperation, with all the
                        charm that had bewitched the enamoured eyes of Beltran Ponce de Leon, she
                        stood before her monarch and her suitor and startled them into silence.
                    The Marquesa de Moya, showing every sign of high nervous tension, took refuge
                        from the critical eye of the King and the scrutiny of Lerin by standing in
                        one of the shadows that the single lamp threw about the chamber.
                    "Doña Antonia," the King said in a kinder voice than he had intended to use
                        toward his recalcitrant ward, "last summer, eight months ago—and a
                        long and tiresome eight months it has been to you—you advised me
                        that you were not prepared to make an alliance with my nephew, the Conde de
                        Lerin. I trust that time has given you better light upon the matter."
                    Antonia, with her eyes upon the floor, made no answer. "Has it?" he
                        asked.
                    
                    "No, sire," she answered simply.
                    After a space Ferdinand changed his position, leaning forward with his arms
                        on the truecos table, his hands clasped, his blue eye fixed without any
                        vexation upon the solitary figure that was resisting him more stubbornly
                        than he had ever been resisted in his life.
                    "My child, it is impossible for me not to have my own conclusions upon such
                        unusual resistance to me. I know that there is no grave fault to be found in
                        the Conde de Lerin. I know that you are offered a most advantageous marriage
                        in this alliance with him. I know that the Conde de Lerin has done all that
                        is expected of a gallant gentleman to do to show his preference for you;
                        and, since you wilfully hold out against his appeals and my authority and
                        the persuasions of your friends, there can be but one cause at the bottom of
                        your refusal to marry him."
                    Antonia braced herself for the charge to come, bidding herself sternly to
                        keep countenance.
                    "It does not arise from the fact that you have objections to Don Jaime, but
                        because you love some other knight," Ferdinand concluded. "Am I not
                        right?"
                    "Your Majesty is aware," she answered, holding hard to her self-control,
                        "that the only knowledge your Majesty requires in this matter is my intent
                        toward the Conde de Lerin."
                    "I admire your loyalty to the man you love," said Ferdinand. "It would
                        delight the Conde de Lerin to have it directed upon himself. But you are in
                        rebellion to your prince. That I cannot countenance, even from one near to
                        me by kinship and dear to me from long association. I am loath to be harsh
                        with you. It would be unfair to use summary power upon you without
                        exhausting every other means to convince you of the futility of your
                        resistance. I confess that you have very skilfully concealed the identity of
                        the fortunate object of your devotion. It is possible that your knight may
                        be more amenable to the sense of this matter than you are. Will you tell me
                        the name of the gentleman?"
                    
                    "Sire, nothing that can be said or revealed will alter my feeling toward the
                        Conde de Lerin, which is finally the whole question. I pray your mercy. I
                        can tell you nothing."
                    "You are aware, Doña Antonia," he continued passively, "that it is but
                        natural for me to have my surmises. My suspicion rests at this moment upon a
                        gallant and valuable young cavalier. It would please me to have his name
                        cleared."
                    Then Antonia blanched. She looked at Lerin and found only hardness in his
                        face as her fright became apparent.
                    "My lord," she said, "have you no feeling at all but ambition and cruelty? Do
                        you call yourself a chivalrous knight?"
                    "Lady, I stand in the way of your knight as he stands in mine. My feeling
                        toward him is the same as his toward me."
                    "You care only to be assured that you will not be the sufferer."
                    "You have chosen to suffer, Doña Antonia."
                    The King, who had not moved his eyes from Antonia, now interrupted.
                    "Are you ready to tell me?" he inquired.
                    "No, sire," she answered.
                    The King looked at the marquesa.
                    "Oh," the noble lady cried, wringing her hands, "I can do nothing!"
                    "Well, well, compose yourself, madame; there is no occasion for so much
                        distress."
                    He moved one of the brass balls that lay before him with the tips of his
                        short sunburnt fingers until it rolled away and brought up against another
                        with the faintest of clicks, but distinctly audible in the tense silence.
                        Lerin was treacherous. So long as the Duque de Medina-Sidonia menaced
                        Ferdinand's control over his nephew it would be incautious to provide Lerin
                        with a great fortune. There was no assurance, once Lerin had Antonia's
                        fortune, that the leader of the powerful 
                        faction in Navarre would maintain his fealty to the King who had made him
                        strong. It would be the simplest treason to join forces with Medina-Sidonia
                        and precipitate an internal war. But Antonia was in rebellion. She should be
                        admonished, even though Ferdinand refrained from forcing her into a
                        marriage.
                    "I am reluctant to oblige you to wed against your will," he said finally.
                        "The Conde de Lerin is not willing to take a wife by force. Both of us are
                        agreed that you may maintain your faith to this unknown for all time, if you
                        wish. A period of reflection will be given you absolutely free from
                        influence over you. If on the 15th of August next you have come to regard
                        your alliance with the Conde de Lerin favorably, we shall celebrate your
                        wedding to him that day. If however, you still cling to your lover, it will
                        be my pleasure to dissolve my engagement with the Conde de Lerin and allow
                        you take the irrevocable vows as a bride of the church."
                    He turned upon the Marquesa de Moya with an accession of energy not entirely
                        complaisant.
                    "Pray, see that she is prepared for a journey. It is my belief that other
                        authority over her will be of benefit. I shall provide an escort for her
                        within an hour. It is just as well that no one knows where she is
                        going."
                    He waved his hand abruptly as if to cut off any remark that either of the
                        women would have made.
                    The last drop of blood flowed back to Antonia's heart and her face seemed to
                        become marble. Lerin looked away quickly as, turning from the King, she
                        fixed her eyes upon him.
                    The marquesa, with her face hidden in her hands, preceded Antonia out of the
                        chamber.
                    The King bade the chamberlain to send for a captain of cavalry, naming one of
                        the shrewdest soldiers of the Moorish campaign.
                    "By your Majesty's leave," said the conde, "I will go."
                    "Wait," said the King pleasantly.
                    
                    This had not been the outcome Lerin had expected. Another delay of months
                        instead of a peremptory order from the King to his stubborn ward to prepare
                        for marriage forthwith!
                    The cavalry officer saluted his commander.
                    "Take twenty," said the King, "and escort Doña Antonia de Aragon to such a
                        place as will be made known to you by orders to be opened two leagues
                        northwest of Santa Fe."
                    The soldier saluted and withdrew.
                    "Good night, Jaime," said the King. "You should sleep well this night."
                    It was this last remark, unloading bodily the whole blame of Don Beltran's
                        unhappy betrayal into the hands of the Inquisition and Doña Antonia's ruined
                        life upon the Conde de Lerin, that sent the nobleman raging with dire intent
                        to the residence of the Duque de Medina-Sidonia straight from the house of
                        the King.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXV
                    THEY OF THE EXPLOITS
                    DON GARCILASO DE LA VEGA and Don Hernando Perez del Pulgar, effectively dressed for
                        their particular part in Don Beltran's clandestine wedding, lounged in the
                        sleeping-room of their bachelor quarters in Santa Fe and waited. The
                        renowned cavaliers slept in the same apartment, after the manner of mediæval
                        lofty folk, who by that custom showed the height of courtesy and confidence
                        in each other. As the hours rolled on without interruption Garcilaso fell
                        into the kind of revery that another knight's love-story would awaken in the
                        heart of one whose campaign was as yet without decisive result.
                    Don Hernando, who was strikingly unsentimental for a Spaniard and a popular
                        cavalier, futilely resisted the drowse that bemused him, and then tumbled
                        over on his couch of silken covers and down and fell at once into a heavy
                        slumber.
                    If Don Garcilaso had been less absorbed in his own thoughts he might have
                        noted that Don Beltran was long in arriving with his purloined bride. But
                        his preoccupation had- carried him so far into the unrealities that when his
                        page bowed at his side and announced a lady in his sala the knight looked at
                        him in stupefaction.
                    "A lady and a knight, is it not?" Garcilaso asked.
                    "No," whispered the page; "a lady, and entirely alone."
                    By the time the cavalier had shaken off his dream his roused brain began to
                        make prodigious calculation. He dropped hat and cloak that he wore ready for
                        another call and sped into his hall of guests.
                    
                    It was, however, a composed and courtly knight who, entering the sala, bowed
                        low before a small figure, all in black and heavily veiled, who rose
                        tremulously to be greeted. To any other eyes than Don Garcilaso the
                        incognito was complete, but Don Garcilaso, armed with a vision that love
                        makes miraculous, penetrated that sombre shrouding and knew his golden
                        damsel as well as if she had stood forth barefaced to the broad day.
                    Taking her hand upon his palm, he seated her, drew up a chair, and asked
                        permission to sit near.
                    "Sir," she said faintly, "be assured first that a great extremity urges me to
                        seek your house at such an hour alone."
                    "Lady," he answered as if the well-beloved tones were as unknown to him as
                        she had meant them to be, "when womanhood in distress seeks Garcilaso at any
                        hour, in any guise, all that he claims to be as knight and gentle is at her
                        command."
                    "Should one who already has tried your courtesy and long-suffering so come to
                        you, pray consider, then, that your requital is begun," she added.
                    "My courtesy and long-suffering, lady, hath never felt a tax, but my heart
                        and my peace of mind may have different testimony to offer."
                    "You know me, then?" she asked plaintively.
                    "Neither night nor the grave could extinguish you from mine eyes, Doña
                        Sancha," he said.
                    Slowly, then, she put up her veil and revealed a face so much marked with
                        tears and distress that Don Garcilaso quickly turned away his head while his
                        conscience smote him. But, holding fast to his war plan, he pressed her hand
                        to his lips and waited for her to go on.
                    "First, reflect, fair sir, upon my situation. My grandsire—and I but
                        this instant put into words that which I have never confessed
                        before—is not wholly won to the King. He hath been to me a perfect
                        suzerain in all save the natural wishes of a young damsel's heart. Between
                        loyalty to him and the cry of my youth I have 
                        been divided sorely-so sorely that out of sheer overstrain I did that which
                        in happier mood I would have scorned to do. Believe, though, I did not dream
                        such a wretched outcome to so foolish and harmless-intentioned a
                        caprice."
                    While she paused to take firmer hold upon her composure he waited, hating
                        himself that he did not stop her in pity and love and fiercely telling
                        himself that it was necessary.
                    "I believe that in the beginning I am to be blamed for the unhappy outcome of
                        Doña Antonia's engagement. However remotely connected with her first
                        disinterest in her suitor, or his in her, my behavior may have been, at
                        least I am responsible for what followed within mine own house to my
                        grandfather's dishonor and mine own misery. Sir, I left my grandsire in
                        conference at this hour with the Conde de Lerin upon a matter treacherous to
                        the King and disastrous to my peace and freedom."
                    If Don Garcilaso's perfect teeth set upon each other at that moment there was
                        no chance for her to behold such a murderous demonstration in a face that
                        she could not see.
                    "Aforetime," she continued finally with greater diffidence and uncertainty,
                        "you have honored me with certain attentions, which made me bold in my grief
                        and desperation to appeal to you for help—in whatever manner you
                        may be moved to offer it."
                    "Once," he said slowly, "I offered you the strength of mine arm and the love
                        and constancy of my heart."
                    "How could I refuse!" she exclaimed. "And what would it have gained me then
                        to accept! There was no reply that I dared make to you! But
                        now—"
                    She halted in the hope that he would help her, but Don Garcilaso had suffered
                        much and his requital had to be complete.
                    "But now, I pray you," she faltered, "offer it all again, for I see no way to
                        live without you!"
                    
                    It was then that Don Garcilaso's cruelly bound heart broke from its curb and
                        rebuked him for his triumph over a damsel who was young enough to be his
                        daughter, for his scheming and his craft, for all that he had done to bring
                        her trembling and sobbing into his arms.
                    But within the many powers of that much-talented cavalier lay the gift of
                        eloquent speech, and the sayings of Don Garcilaso in that hour might well
                        have forecast to him the genius of his son to come, whose golden song has
                        never been surpassed in Spain.
                    "And now," he said, after he had said everything else that his love and her
                        beauty could inspire, "your grandsire is old, dear heart! He still clings to
                        the ancient attitude of the undefeated lords who stood in no fear of a king.
                        I were a base coward and unworthy your sweet trust to shame or coerce him.
                        There is a better way and a surer persuasion than force. The King must know
                        that he hath neglected the Duque de Medina-Sidonia. He must be reminded that
                        he is the last grand figure that made the ascent of kings so difficult.
                        Ferdinand is a generous conqueror. He shall melt your grandsire's wintry
                        resentment by kindliness and warmth. Arms and punishment would but make it
                        fast in him. As for the Conde de Lerin—"
                    Don Garcilaso paused. The religious blue eyes of the cavalier sparkled once
                        with a dire and mortal blaze, and then his lids drooped gently.
                    "But," he said hopefully, "it will be easy to deal with the matter of Don
                        Jaime."
                    "Oh," she exclaimed, catching her breath, "will you fight him?"
                    "No," he said thoughtfully, "I fear Garcilaso will never fight again."
                    "Good, and most good!" she said with relief. "But why do you think it?"
                    "Much as we ascribe valor to arms, sweet one," he replied, "few men are
                        willing to seek inevitable death."
                    "You are the most conceited man in Spain," she vowed with a flash of her old
                        spirit.
                    
                    "I am," he admitted, kissing the hand that she had asked him to accept of
                        her, "and why should I not be?"
                    When some time later Don Garcilaso, cloaked and bonneted, came home from the
                        delightful if somewhat strategic task of returning the golden damsel to her
                        father's house, he found in the bedroom which he shared with Don Hernando
                        none other than the King's auditor, Don Alonso de Quintanilla.
                    The squire of him of the exploits had succeeded in rousing Don Hernando to
                        the point of sitting up on his sumptuous couch, but as Don Garcilaso entered
                        and Quintanilla turned to greet the younger knight and explain his presence
                        Don Hernando's sleepy head drooped softly to one side and the redoubtable
                        knight of the exploits drifted off into the dreams of a mature veteran
                        again.
                    Don Garcilaso, shedding his cloak and doffing his hat, picked up one of his
                        own slender Moorish bedroom slippers of red velvet and, after two or three
                        dainty feints, threw it with such choice precision that it scored with a
                        smart rap on the exact centre of Don Hernando's crown, where the rough black
                        hair was sparsest.
                    Although Don Hernando sprang up immediately and gave an earnest though wrathy
                        attention, Quintanilla beheld this mischievous act in Garcilaso, as well as
                        the imp that danced in his eye, with some misgivings. It was manifest that
                        the renowned cavalier was in no mood for serious discourse, and Don Hernando
                        was bound to be of exactly the same frame of mind as Don Garcilaso, no
                        matter if his head did smart for it.
                    "You are about tired of all this," said Quintanilla with a sweep of his arm
                        over the luxurious house of peace.
                    "No, I am making ready to enjoy it for all time," said Garcilaso with a
                        joyous lilt in his retort.
                    "Well enough to make preparations, if your debts are all paid," said the
                        auditor.
                    "Debts!" repeated Garcilaso. "Now-God be praised!—that is one thing
                        that has never troubled me.  However, Hernando
                        has not been so fortunate. But since I pledged him my faith he has been
                        tolerably free from duns."
                    "That," said Hernando, "is about as true in one half as it is in the
                        other."
                    "Verily, I know that you be both in debt," declared the auditor, "and I have
                        come collecting."
                    "Collect!" Garcilaso bade him languidly.
                    "Peradventure," said the auditor with energy, "you have forgotten that you
                        owe Beltran Ponce de Leon your life."
                    "Never!" declared Garcilaso with interest. "Also my reputation. If that be
                        your debt, I confess it."
                    "Very good! What say you, Don Hernando?"
                    "Whatever my brother owes, that owe I also!" answered the cavalier of the
                        exploits. "Hampered that red-haired knight may be with a dancing-master's
                        build and eight years in captivity, but he is a brave man and a crazy
                        fighter. Say the word and we will go out and die for him!"
                    "Listen, then, and if I seem to ask much of you remember that I am
                        sacrificing mine own honor as a trusted officer of the King to my affection
                        for the son of my dead brother in arms. I met an hour since the Conde de
                        Lerin coming from an audience with his Majesty. He was sorely distraught,
                        and, trusting in me as his host, his French nature spilled over in certain
                        confidences that I must make known to you. Doña Antonia de Aragon persists
                        in her refusal to marry him—"
                    "Vaya! Tell us something that we do not know! I' faith, we could have told
                        you that nine months ago," Hernando broke in.
                    "Perhaps you could have told me likewise that the King sends her out of Santa
                        Fe to-night to be imprisoned somewhere until next August, when she is either
                        to wed Lerin or take the veil?"
                    "Don Alonso, if the matter could have been held  off till morning," Garcilaso declared, "you might have had something
                        unexpected to tell—but even then, it would not have been new to
                        us!"
                    "Doubtless," the auditor returned with exasperation. "But I shall bring up
                        something that you do not know, ere I have done. After the conde had rushed
                        off in search of further sympathy I met the Marques de Moya in a great state
                        of mind. He, also seeking comfort, informed me that Doña Antonia had
                        dishonored his house by carrying on a secret love-affair with Don Beltran
                        Ponce de Leon—"
                    At this the renowned cavaliers exchanged amused glances.
                    "It is ill-timed!" the auditor exclaimed, out of all patience and something
                        grieved. "Hold your mad selves in check till I have done this tragedy! I
                        went straight to the house of the Marques de Cadiz and found that which
                        should strike pity to your hearts, if you have them. Don Beltran is under
                        orders to proceed at once to Sevilla, and without the house, somewhere in
                        the dark, watching him, were stationed two members of the Santa Hermandad,
                        placed there by the Inquisition."
                    "Jesús!" exclaimed Hernando dismayed.
                    Don Garcilaso's sobered face said more than words could have expressed.
                    "Now," continued the auditor, "the lad is in some measure informed about the
                        cause back of it all. By the usual process he would not of a necessity be
                        doomed, since his offense is not so grave. But he hath a secret that an
                        inquisitor is as determined to have as the boy is determined to keep it. You
                        know what will happen, gentles! The Inquisition, he is assured, will not be
                        permitted to strike until after his work on the Guadalquivir is done. But
                        the fact that the surveillance, contrary to the usual method of the Holy
                        Office, is open, assures him that it is meant to hinder him from proceeding
                        further in the matter of the rescue of his lady-love or  stepping aside in the slightest from his appointed task upon
                        the river.
                    "Naturally," the auditor continued in the complete silence that had fallen
                        after his alarming news, "he does not wish to be triumphed over by his enemy
                        after his death—since he feels that he must die. But he is further
                        obliged to remove Doña Antonia from any mishap that might befall her should
                        he, under the persuasions of the secret chamber of the Inquisition, tell
                        what he now is moved to conceal. He is prepared to give her asylum and
                        competence in another land than Spain. It is your duty as sworn debtors to
                        him to do that which he would do better and swifter than you could do it
                        were not the hounds of the Inquisition keeping watch over him."
                    "And so you ask me to liberate Doña Antonia de Aragon and free her forever
                        from the grasp of the Conde de Lerin," said Garcilaso with a kind of
                        magnificence wholly unwonted in the renowned cavalier. "Thus will that
                        thrice-damned knave be set loose to torment the grandsire of my own lady
                        into wedding her to him. So be it! Though my fidelity to mine oath loosed a
                        thousand evils for me to combat, still would Garcilaso stand by his word.
                        Say on! What am I to do?"
                    "You are to arm and mount this hour, you and your fellow, and follow this
                        escort that leads the lady to her prison. That discovered, you are to fare
                        on to the Guadalquivir to Ponce de Leon, who will know then what to do."
                    The two renowned cavaliers looked at each other. That was a tame task for
                        such hands as theirs. Had they been ordered to attack the escort
                        single-handed and make way with the lady, it would have been in keeping with
                        their abilities. But Hernando extended one of his feet and pointed with it
                        to a design in the Moorish carpet.
                    "Let this," said he, selecting a square medallion in the figure, "be the city
                        of Santa Fe. This little curly thread standing bravely up above the common
                        pile, the sweet  Doña Antonia. These rays
                        around the edge, the lady's escort. All this be the wide world. This
                        swastika in the corner be the lover on the banks of the Guadalquivir. Now,
                        attend. Do you ask that we leave the city of Santa Fe and follow the escort
                        and the weeping lady until we find where she is to be confined; then proceed
                        to the red-haired swastika on the river—where hard work hath
                        reduced him to something like the symbol, I observe—and inform him
                        where his love lies languishing?"
                    "It is what I ask," said the auditor.
                    "Oh," said Hernando, rolling up his eyes, "reflect, good sir, how young we
                        are! How lightly affrayed!"
                    "Nay, now, be sure you have no little task," the auditor urged. "This is the
                        King's doing, and he is no light guardian of his undertakings."
                    "Pity, stern man!" said Garcilaso plaintively.
                    "Reflect that you are matching your wits with Christians," said Quintanilla
                        impatiently.
                    "True," said Garcilaso gloomily. "Up, Hernando! Die like a man!"
                    He clapped his hands, ordered his page to arouse their grooms, and called in
                        their squires to dress them for the journey.
                    An hour later the two knights and their following, having obtained from the
                        alcalde permission to pass the gates, emerged from the city of Santa Fe and
                        set out at a brisk pace toward Loxa. At the small rocky city commanding the
                        pass into the vega they left their entire train and, withdrawing about a
                        mile into the plain, alone, waited for the arrival of the escort of Doña
                        Antonia de Aragon, which they had passed just as it departed from the city.
                        Finally a dark line on the level country, moving at the pace of the mules
                        that the women travellers rode, shaped itself in the blue dark of the
                        starlit night, and Don Garcilaso and Don Hernando, like old-time knights
                        errant, took up their mission alone.
                    After that it was a simple matter, too simple a matter to keep at a distance
                        and out of sight of the watchful  captain
                        escorting the prisoner of the King. However much they were moved by the
                        unhappy end of their friend's struggle to win his lady-love, Garcilaso's own
                        triumph was too new for distress to master him long. And when the heart of
                        Don Garcilaso was light, the spirits of Don Hernando were similarly
                        effervescent, and the newly elected lover had, like a boy in the flush of
                        his first romance, to tell it all to his sympathizing brother in arms.
                    And so, fully surrendered to the irresponsibility of the youth which they had
                        retained far into middle life, they loitered in the darkness after the
                        departing train and laughed, under their breath and sped the monotonous
                        hours until the break of day.
                    Dawn found the detachment of cavalry halted and encamped in a barranca under
                        a cluster of poplars on the outskirts of a village and totally surrounded by
                        a rocky, forbidding landscape.
                    They of the exploits selected a depression in the side of an eminence both
                        for the warmth as well as the hiding-place it afforded, voted the matter too
                        simple to require one to watch while his fellow slept, made themselves
                        comfortable, and fell asleep.
                    An hour or two later the sun of the new day beating with unclouded intensity
                        upon their bed aroused them. Garcilaso looking over the side of the hollow,
                        assured himself that the camp was still standing and then set about
                        preparing their meal.
                    The bleak little village stood high up from the barranca among a pile of
                        rocks, with little stone houses over which a small new church with a loud
                        bell dominated and the whole surrounded by cramped but exceedingly hardy
                        walls.
                    After the breakfast was well over and the camp in the barranca was still
                        quiet, the two knights tied their horses in a copse of poplar saplings and
                        wandered up to the town.
                    On a level less rocky than the surrounding plateau,  under a straggling olive or two without the walls, they found
                        a country carnival in progress.
                    But, to the astonishment and pleasure of the two knights, they discovered
                        that the party of paisanos, which at a distance appeared to be the usual
                        frolic of maids and swains, was, upon closer inspection, a masquerade for
                        part of the merrymakers. There was not a man among them.
                    On the frontier of the Spanish kingdom, the village had perpetually suffered
                        from raids and skirmishes between Moor and Christian during times of peace
                        and throughout the war; its last man was draughted to the arms of the cross.
                        The notary, the beggar, the padre, the muleteer, the holy brother of the
                        Hermandad were all girls tricked out in the borrowed garments of the
                        departed men of the village, and the antics of these mock gallants afforded
                        uproarious merriment to these weary of the monotony of their sex.
                    The sudden appearance of a pair of genuine men, who were comely and lively,
                        spread both delight and confusion among the maiden revellers.
                    Both the cavaliers knew every country dance and roundelay that ever was
                        played or sung upon a village greensward, and they were past masters of the
                        gentle art of philandering. They took in the situation with a single
                        comprehensive glance. Garcilaso, assuring himself that the tents in the
                        barranca were still standing, selected the blondest girl; Hernando, warning
                        his brother in arms that they had business to remember, made no choice but
                        took as luck came to him, and the carnival under the straggling olives went
                        forward with unprecedented enthusiasm.
                    The sun was throwing the shadows of the rocky hills farther and farther out
                        upon the valley before the merrymakers, sitting down to rest, observed how
                        far into the day their pleasure had carried them.
                    "Brother mine," said Hernando, "they be sound sleepers in yon camp on the
                        barranca?' "Nay, that is no sleeping-place," said the blonde one  by whom Garcilaso sat, "nor has it been. A
                        party of gentles pitched the camp there and rode on without stopping. I saw
                        when I watered the mules at day-break."
                    The two knights looked at each other and got upon their feet.
                    It was an old, old trick. A dozen times in the Moorish campaign they had left
                        their own tents standing while they had made a silent retreat in the night.
                        The captain of Antonia's escort was a shrewd fellow. He fully expected some
                        frantic knight to follow upon the track of the abducted Antonia. And so he
                        had pitched his tents and had ridden on, leaving his camp as a foil standing
                        lifeless upon the sands of the dry barranca.
                    They of the exploits fled back to the copse of poplar saplings where they had
                        tethered their horses.
                    The tents were deserted, indeed. They had never been occupied.
                    They of the exploits paused no more. They mounted, put spur to their superb
                        horses, and rode like the wind to the nearest hill that would give them a
                        commanding view of the country.
                    It was a good hill for a view. It was an imposing panorama that met their
                        eyes—miles and miles of broken blue hills, smiling vales and
                        inviting roads, deserted, soundless, beautiful under the sinking sun of
                        southern Spain.
                    The brothers in arms refrained from looking at each other. They knew their
                        duty, and they did not hesitate.
                    "Ponce de Leon must be warned," they agreed. "And after that, having lost
                        her, we must find her and save our reputations."
                    "But how shall it be done?" they asked each other.
                    "First," they said, "we must haunt the roads until we see this villainous,
                        smart captain return. We can guess by the time he gets back how far he has
                        gone. And that will not be farther than to-night, else he would not have
                        left his tents, having womenfolk and another night to spend on the
                        road."
                    
                    This conclusion cheered them considerably.
                    "Then, we shall draw a circle of a day's extent and visit all the convents in
                        it."
                    "We shall visit all the convents!" said Garcilaso, for this had been
                        Hernando's remark. "Very good! Let us see ourselves visit a convent.
                        That—by the mass!—is the next best feat for them of the
                        exploits."
                    To search a hostile city or to take a tower would have been a task easily
                        within their abilities, but to find Antonia in one of a hundred convents
                        that would answer neither to the knock nor the challenge of a man put the
                        feat beyond them.
                    About nine o'clock the next morning, as they haunted the roads through the
                        hills, they saw in a pass a mile or so distant the detachment of cavalry
                        moving leisurely down into the vega and knew that the prisoner had been
                        delivered to her keepers. The crestfallen doers of exploits brightened up
                        considerably for they knew now that they had only a limited area instead of
                        all Spain over which to search.
                    They returned to Loxa and brought away with them their retinues and continued
                        then to Sevilla, where they were to confess to Beltran Ponce de Leon that
                        they had been outwitted in a simple chase, and to sit at the feet of the
                        young knight and learn what to do about it.
                    "Brother mine," said Garcilaso to Hernando, "I have committed my second
                        blunder and my last. I have learned that it is indeed possible to remain
                        youthful. But what profits it me? I commit the follies of youth; and, in
                        view of my years, I am simply become foolish and unworthy. Henceforward,
                        Hernando, I shall live as becomes mine age."
                    "A sound resolution—timely only now, Garcilaso! For if we had shaped
                        this sober resolve years ago we should never have been known as them of the
                        exploits. The deeds we have done are possible only to those who have the
                        recklessness of youth."
                    The following morning they rode into the plain below  the Pearl of Andalusia and, stopping not to draw rein, moved
                        straight on to the banks of the Guadalquivir.
                    It was a strange sight routing the pastoral somnolence that by wont had
                        presided far and wide down the Guadalquivir. Had the spirit of the
                        Conqueror, dust fifteen hundred years, returned at that time, he would have
                        believed himself Caesar in Gaul once more. But never since the rush of
                        barbarian feet over all the lands that acknowledged the golden eagle as
                        their standard had Labor so monumental and aspiring showed its knotted back
                        and sweating brow to the Andalusian sun.
                    Alongside of the river rail a high yellow ridge of earth. The knights mounted
                        this and looked down into a wide, unfamiliar hollow, in the side of which
                        the Guadalquivir flowed along penned within the ward of a levee. The sallow
                        valley was aswarm with laborers. Hundreds of bent backs shovelled into long
                        trains of waiting carts the noisome yellow muck which arms attached to
                        invisible bodies heaved up by yellow dripping leather buckets from barges
                        moored at the bank. There was an endless procession from this saturnine
                        toil, carts departing loaded and carts arriving empty. Away toward the north
                        until totally lost in the dimness of the atmosphere the same hurry of labor
                        milled about the edge of the great yellow stream.
                    Tents for the laborers by thousands, sheds for the shelter of supplies, the
                        inevitable vender of small articles, the inevitable crowd of sightseers, the
                        riding foreman, the strolling police—these were common features,
                        not unlike scenes that had crowded the campo before Granada. But here was
                        labor, not war; rude servants of peace reasoning with the great river that
                        was to bring the ocean to Cordova and make Sevilla great.
                    The knights lingered for a long time, interested, critical, wondering,
                        forgetting for a time why they had come, watching the unimaginable curiosity
                        in action before them, feeling somehow that the yellow ridge  that they had mounted was an end to the life
                        they knew, that they looked into a limbo over a frontier of an uncouth,
                        superhuman world.
                    About them, as the crowds of villagers strolled by, they heard Beltran Ponce
                        de Leon discussed.
                    There was not the single-hearted approbation of old. There was debate. The
                        loud-mouthed critic who draws notice as the sole dissenting voice amid
                        applause, the incurable conservative who cannot be driven to run with the
                        crowd, the whisperer who has begun to suspect—these now and then
                        precipitated dispute with the tremendous majority of loyal admirers of the
                        royal engineer.
                    But his star had passed its meridian.
                    Sitting thus on their horses, which, like their riders, looked with interest
                        upon the great shifting drama before them, they noted a general
                        concentration of attention, and Beltran Ponce de Leon rode up beside
                        them.
                    "Behold mine impiety," he said without other greeting. "The padre from
                        Sevilla who comes here to say mass for my poor wights told me this morning
                        that the look of the thing was blasphemous, that it was too much like hell
                        to be lawful business for a Christian."
                    With the eyes of men just awakening the two knights looked at him.
                    It was not the kind of speech they expected from a man so involved in anxiety
                        and difficulty. Lean, brown, dressed in leather, with a wide hat like a
                        priest's, he was as uncommon a spectacle as his labor. But more than that,
                        his face was so changed in expression that it altered him. They were
                        scarcely sure that this was the young knight who always looked as if he had
                        just smiled. Feeling intuitively that there must be some reason why he
                        should speak thus disinterestedly to them, Garcilaso essayed to answer in
                        kind.
                    "The padre is right. What kind of a man are you?"
                    "That question is already popular. It comes just before a declaration of
                        suspicion."
                    
                    "Somehow," said Hernando thoughtfully, "this looks dangerous. Do you stand
                        well everywhere ? "
                    "If you will look over my shoulder at this minute you will be fair shown how
                        well I stand."
                    Hernando looked as he was bidden and saw, lounging within a dozen yards of
                        them, two of the Santa Hermandad of Granada. They were Calcena's police
                        watching their victim till such time as his work should he done.
                    There was no reason to suspect this light talk between the two knights and
                        Ponce de Leon with whom cavaliers came to talk every day. The brothers of
                        the Santa Hermandad presently moved away.
                    Then the strange lines on the face of Beltran Ponce de Leon deepened.
                    "Tell me now," he said; "and tell me quickly."
                    Then Garcilaso de la Vega made the most humiliating admission he had ever
                        been forced to make in his life. As he looked with a good deal of
                        uncertainty at Ponce in an effort to feel out the engineer's temper, he was
                        smitten with regret to see no vexation at all appear on that strait
                        countenance. He knew then that Beltran had reached the point where he was
                        not surprised to know the tide of adversity set against him.
                    "Nay, then," he said resolutely. "I have much to engage me. Doña Antonia must
                        be freed from the prison that she entered for my sake. If I would escape
                        with mine honor intact, I must complete this work for the King ere he
                        discovers my lady's flight. And my lady safe, my labor done, I have yet my
                        bones to put well out of the reach of my friend and well-wisher, Juan Royz
                        de Calcena. It is a fair summer's work. Well, to it! Doña Antonia will be
                        anxious. She must be seen. Can you visit her for me, gentles?"
                    For that stout heart, in the face of a fate they could not think avoidable,
                        they loved him heartily.
                    "We shall do all for her that you would have done," Garcilaso vowed.
                    
                    "Why do you risk so much for me?" Beltran asked.
                    ""Save by your right arm, Beltran Ponce de Leon," said Garcilaso, "I had been
                        ere now a naked and forgotten skeleton under the pave of my father's
                        chapel."
                    "Nay, do it for her sake, not mine!"
                    They each took a hand and pressed it.
                    "Leave your love in our hands," they said. "Give us counsel, now, about what
                        shall be done, and let us be about it!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVI
                    DON GARCILASO SETTLES HIS AFFAIRS
                    AFTER their conference with Beltran Ponce de Leon they of
                        the exploits separated. With that famous preparedness of the mediaeval
                        knight, Don Hernando took up a long, long journey to Navarre. He must needs
                        be gone several weeks, and the interval that Don Garcilaso spent apart from
                        his doughty brother in arms had to be spent in activities devoted both to
                        his own and Don Beltran's causes.
                    Don Garcilaso rode at once to Malaga and despatched a message to Don
                        Beltran's steward, the converted Moor, Hacen, asking that a caravel properly
                        equipped for the accommodation of a high-born damsel, and sailing under the
                        Moor's own flag, be ready in the shipping at Malaga for use upon demand
                        within the ensuing eight weeks.
                    Then Garcilaso the Undefeated returned to the city of Santa Fe.
                    The Marques de Cadiz, stricken with resentment at the ingratitude of
                        Ferdinand, enraged with Lerin, at outs with the high officers-of the
                        Inquisition and heart-broken over the unhappy ruin of his nephew, had fallen
                        ill under the pressure of his feelings and had returned to his home in
                        Sevilla. All Granada had the story of the engineer's fall, and it was only a
                        question of time when it would have penetrated the breadth of Spain.
                    The disaffection of Lerin to the Duque de Medina-Sidonia was growing patent.
                        Don Garcilaso, with that perception of the propitious minute which had
                        served him so marvellously as a warrior and which was to arm him even more
                        effectively as an ambassador in his  riper
                        years, went at once to the royal residence and asked an interview with the
                        King.
                    It is surmised that Don Garcilaso opened the interview with a naive and
                        engaging confession of his love for the granddaughter of the Duque de
                        Medina-Sidonia.
                    Since it was this selfsame radiant damsel who was at the bottom of Don
                        Ferdinand's doubt in his distinguished nephew, the Conde de Lerin, it may be
                        believed that Don Ferdinand gave sympathetic attention to the interesting
                        admission made by the most puissant cavalier of the Moorish War. The
                        discussion that followed this opening declaration led into an examination of
                        the old duque's attitude toward his King, and so, finally, its causes and
                        the method of its correction.
                    Pursuant to the conclusions of this interview, which eventually won for Don
                        Garcilaso Spain's portfolio to Italy, the King paid a royal visit to the
                        Duque de Medina-Sidonia, renewed his protestations of good-will, exerted all
                        his powers of politics and personal good feeling upon the old baron, and
                        finally won the duque's promise to aid him in the coming difficulty with
                        France.
                    When the cloud upon the face of the duque was seen to have lifted, Don
                        Garcilaso met the Conde de Lerin one night in a blind alley between the
                        hours of midnight and daybreak, but what passed between that pair of
                        puissant gentles is not set down in history. But the Conde de Lerin, taking
                        suggestion kindly which had been delivered in that place at that time by
                        that first-named knight, gave over his pursuit of the golden damsel and
                        fixed his resolution unalterably upon a marriage with Doña Antonia de
                        Aragon.
                    This determination resulted disastrously for certain of the King's subjects
                        as well as calamitously for the nation, however pious and well-timed it may
                        have appeared at the hour to the purified ones of the truly Catholic realm
                        of Spain.
                    The Conde de Lerin turned to Juan Royz de Calcena for inspiration and
                        assistance, and together the two  amiable
                        favorites of the King rehabilitated and imbued with life the well-nigh inert
                        scheme of Calcena's to banish the Jews for the revenues to be had from the
                        export duty upon the exiles, in addition to the confiscations, extortions,
                        and prosecutions likely to follow upon so wholesale a riddance of a thrifty
                        and frugal people.
                    When Lerin went again to Ferdinand he was so chastened and affectionate and
                        winning that the Aragonese monarch, now assured that he had nothing more to
                        fear from the Duque de Medina-Sidonia, was moved to sympathy for his nephew
                        and capitulated his stand against the banishment of the Jews to the extent
                        of unloading the whole question upon the shoulders of the Queen.
                    The pragmatica was framed, however, and the Jews, having taken warning from
                        Antonia's interview with the Sanchez brothers so long before, were prepared
                        with a treaty for their sovereigns, which was to be signed upon the payment
                        of eighty thousand ducats to be applied to the war debt.
                    It was known that Isabella was mightily opposed to the movement against the
                        Jews, and the conflict between the anti-Jewish party and the Jewish
                        supporters raged around the good Queen to her increasing distress and
                        indecision.
                    It was known that Torquemada, the inquisitor-general, was the strongest
                        influence in favor of the measure that the Jewish supporters had to fight.
                        The simple ruse of eliminating the inquisitor-general from the presence of
                        the Queen when the petition was to be offered, was settled upon by the
                        friends of the Jews. On a day when Torquemada was to journey to Granada to
                        sit in a special session of the Holy Office, the Jewish and converso
                        secretaries of their Majesties arranged a hearing for the Jews to be held
                        during his absence.
                    But the Conde de Lerin, expecting such a strategy, strode at once to
                        Calcena's chamber.
                    
                    "Are you ready?" he demanded. "Unless you are, this day we are beaten."
                    "The inquisitor-general is in Granada," the royal secretary said in
                        dismay.
                    "It is only a league and a half to Granada," said the Conde de Lerin, and
                        quitting the chamber, ordered his horse.
                    On that afternoon the King and the Queen received the petition of the Jews
                        offering to buy their residence in Spain for a consideration of eighty
                        thousand gold ducats, to be applied to the war debt.
                    It is said that the Queen had wetted her pen to write her name to the
                        agreement, when there was such commotion at the doors of the council chamber
                        that the Queen stayed her hand, alarmed.
                    Then Torquemada, the inquisitor-general, burst into the chamber, his sombre
                        ecclesiastical robes flying, his tall, meagre frame borne upon feet that
                        seemed hardly to touch the floor, his austere countenance aflame with insane
                        fanaticism. He confronted the astounded sovereigns with superhuman
                        accusation in his expression; then, dashing a silver crucifix upon a table
                        in their sight, he cried:
                    "Behold the Crucified One, whom Judas sold for thirty pieces of silver! Sell
                        Him now for a greater sum! But doubt not ye shall answer to God, as the
                        Iscariot answered, O my sovereigns!"
                    By the time the half-fainting Queen had come to herself, Calcena put the
                        pragmatica banishing the Jews before her and Lerin handed her a newly wetted
                        pen.
                    With fingers that showed their trembling in the letters they made she wrote
                        upon the edict:
                    "I, the Queen."
                    And, after her, Ferdinand with an Aragonese shrug of his shoulders wrote:
                    "I, the King."
                    And so at last, the Conde de Lerin provided a fortune for himself and
                        signified his determination to wed with Antonia de Aragon and none
                        other.
                    
                    The dowry raised and Lerin assuming his high-minded resolve in the sight of
                        all Santa Fe, Don Garcilaso de la Vega went to the Duque de Medina-Sidonia,
                        and with great ceremony asked for the hand of the golden damsel. He was
                        formally accepted by the grand old nobleman and duly introduced to the
                        golden damsel as her future lord and master. And throughout that stiff and
                        punctilious procedure, it is said that never a glimmer appeared in the
                        glorious blue eyes of the damsel to prove that she had ever seen Don
                        Garcilaso before nor a flicker about Don Garcilaso's religious mouth to show
                        that he had ever called her anything softer than "madame."
                    Then, time fleeting upon golden wings and the horizon to the north expected
                        to give up the sturdy figure of Don Hernando at any day, Don Garcilaso asked
                        permission of the King and of the Duque de Medina-Sidonia, to make a
                        pilgrimage to Rome, in fulfilment of a vow he had made should Heaven smile
                        upon his suit for the hand of the golden damsel. This pious request met the
                        approval of both monarch and the duque and was allowed. But Garcilaso
                        obtained a quiet interview with the golden Sancha, and the explanation of
                        conditions, their solution, and the part he was to play in it constituted a
                        different story from the one he had told his King and the duque. But the
                        golden damsel, seeing in her consent an opportunity to make reparation to
                        her friend and comrade, Antonia de Aragon, blessed her knight and sent him
                        upon his mission with a light heart and a clean conscience.
                    So, having arranged his affairs and prepared himself for a long and exciting
                        journey, Don Garcilaso set out from Santa Fe, one morning in May, just one
                        year to the day from the time Antonia de Aragon had discovered Beltran Ponce
                        de Leon in the ruins of the tower on the road to Alcalá la Real.
                    He passed Loxa, slept in a monastery that night, emerged upon a hilltop about
                        noon the following day,  and, looking down
                        into the hollow into which the precipitate road descended, beheld a retinue
                        passing through it. At the head of the cavalcade rode the redoubtable hero
                        of the exploits. At his side upon a mule was a woman in the fustian garments
                        of a pilgrim.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVII
                    THE PILGRIM
                    CONVENTS before the time of Ferdinand and Isabella ranged
                        in character from immense communities of great wealth, where state, luxury,
                        politics, and learning flourished vitally, through all the descending grades
                        to poverty-stricken houses struggling for existence and forgotten by the
                        church to which they adhered. There were institutions into which vanished
                        from the secular world, to appear in the religious life, central figures in
                        great romances and great tragedies and women of illustrious lineage about
                        whom the perils which beset crowned heads fermented; and there were idle,
                        frivolous, immoral refuges for women of unsavory history, physical
                        defectives, and moral delinquents, not intended to uplift or to save.
                    But it was one of the side issues of Isabella's general rule of reform to
                        place all these convents upon a1 uniform basis of regularity, humility,
                        decency, and industry. It was no matter to be placed in the hands of
                        functionaries, because it referred to the gentler sex. The great Queen went
                        about it personally, persuading the governing powers of the conventuals to
                        act in harmony with her crusade, and stimulating the movement by visits to
                        the nunneries with her needle and distaff.
                    It is not to be supposed that such rigid reform could be worked without
                        rousing antagonism and resentment, especially in institutions where such
                        remedial activity was most needed. But the Queen persisted, and before the
                        close of her reign convents that had been closed houses against the appeals
                        of charity and the wanderer  at their gates
                        became hospices and factories, schools and hospitals. There still existed
                        grades, but each grade was an improvement upon what it had been before the
                        auspicious event that had made Isabella Queen of Castile.
                    Antonia de Aragon had an ideal of convent life that was pure, serene, and
                        lofty. She had memories of frequent visits in company with the Queen and her
                        ladies to a certain abbey where a great duquesa was abbess, where a
                        community of nuns of lofty birth and principle and learning were religiosas
                        under their titled superior's perfect rule.
                    It was red blood that flowed in the veins of Antonia de Aragon. With her life
                        before her all rosy with promise, she had looked upon this pale, calm,
                        cloistered existence with a shiver of awe. Even now, with her horizon robbed
                        of its' color, her hopes encircled with opposition, and her choice pitched
                        between this cold life and another entirely hateful, she faced the convent
                        with a reluctance entirely unconquerable.
                    Ferdinand was as shrewd a student of the woman nature as he was a manager of
                        men. He knew of no greater tax upon Antonia's fortitude than convent life,
                        and he had no intention of making the cloister preferable to the Conde de
                        Lerin. He selected, instead of that glorious abbey with its procession of
                        noble recluses under a superior of lofty blood, a meagre little convent in
                        the bleakest mountains near Lucena: a refuge of discredited women, social
                        impossibilities, idiotic offspring of great families, and women of lofty
                        birth whose propensities called for semipenal regulation. The convent had
                        been established a century before by a grandee in reparation for a long life
                        of folly, and Isabella had cut the support from under it and changed its
                        régime from that commensurate with the character of the lord who had founded
                        it to one of outward humility and decency.
                    Its inmates were disunited, as such a congress of anomalies ever is, its
                        government embittered by impaired  standing,
                        and its atmosphere, accordingly, the most unbearable.
                    Antonia, fresh from the activity of the great and radiant world, beautiful,
                        positive, and gloomy came into this stagnant and bitter community like a new
                        gust of irritation. Envied for her gifts, feared because of her powers, and
                        hated by the inmates because of the difference between her and them, she
                        became aware of the whole meaning of Ferdinand's intent before the night had
                        fallen upon her arrival there. She knew then that this was the place in
                        which she was to end her days should she continue her stand against
                        Lerin.
                    Whatever feeling of pity she had for the unfortunate women who were her
                        companions was too far overshadowed by her Aragonese reserve and her
                        personal cares to be at all apparent to them. It was impossible for her to
                        entertain either respect or interest in them, and her retreat into her
                        native taciturnity was no better for her standing among them than an actual
                        expression of her feelings would have been. She was too strong and
                        commanding to be antagonized openly, but all the subtle persecutions and
                        contemptible antipathies that such a nature as hers could arouse in such
                        natures as theirs were directed with unanimity against her. In an incredibly
                        short time her position among the other inmates of the convent had reached a
                        degree of unpleasantness that was intolerable.
                    Her seclusion was not complete as Ferdinand had meant it to be. In this
                        digression from the King's command the attitude of the superior against the
                        monarchs who had ruined her prosperity was clearly expressed. The revival of
                        the rules of their order insisted upon by the Queen bade them open their
                        door to the poor and the pilgrim, and the superior, in defiance of
                        Ferdinand's wish, held to this rule if for no other reason than to seize
                        upon the first opportunity at reprisal.
                    But in that humble hospice set in the mountains, with  convents of superior entertainments all about it, few came to
                        ask a night's lodging or a meal of the nuns, and these were not of the class
                        who would recognize Antonia de Aragon, maid of honor to her Royal Highness,
                        the Infanta Juanna.
                    So the first four months of the new year wore away amid total silence from
                        her friends, as Ferdinand had ordered. But on a morning in May a party of
                        travellers knocked at the gate of the convent and asked entertainment
                        overnight for a woman pilgrim who travelled in the protection of the
                        train.
                    She was admitted through the grating and appeared at the refectory at the
                        evening meal.
                    Among that collection of women diversely born, sound and afflicted, hideous
                        and fair-favored, her appearance was out of the ordinary. She was plump and
                        well-conditioned, something sunburnt, with a cultured voice and a pair of
                        liquid eyes. Her manner was gracious and reserved and her speech the purest
                        Castilian. She was at home in a convent, familiar with the routine, and was
                        withal the most intelligent and interesting woman that had asked shelter at
                        that gate in many a day.
                    It was generally understood that she was on a pilgrimage to a neighboring
                        shrine, but beyond this statement there was little to be learned from
                        her.
                    Once during the meal, however, it was noted that she raised her liquid eyes
                        and methodically scanned the face of each sitter at the long, barren table
                        until she came to Antonia de Aragon. There the searching eyes stopped, and
                        the pilgrim fell to her meal once more.
                    After nightfall, when the inmates were shut in their dormitories and sleep
                        fell upon the convent, Antonia, with her eyes upon the sparkling stars of
                        the mountain sky framed in her cell-window like a square of marvellous
                        jewelry set in the impenetrable blackness of the convent walls, heard a
                        sound like a mouse in the partition.
                    By the time she realized that some one was slipping  the bolt on the outside of her cell door a gust of air swept
                        around her chamber.
                    As she sat up quickly a whisper hissed warm upon her ear.
                    "Peace! It is I, the pilgrim. The floor is cold. Let me lie beside you!"
                    Antonia knew now that she was to hear from the world without—from
                        Beltran. Quickly she gave the stranger room and waited on her speech.
                    "Do you know me?" the woman asked.
                    "I have not looked at you," Antonia answered.
                    "I looked at you," the woman retorted. "And for once in my life I was glad to
                        behold you. I have been seeking through every convent in Andalusia to find
                        you. You were well hidden, by my soul! I am come by the sending of Beltran
                        Ponce de Leon."
                    Antonia seized the woman's hands at this.
                    "I know you now," she declared. "You are Doña Marta."
                    "Ay, and here to join you to your love and to save you from mine! You do well
                        to greet me warmly!"
                    "Tell me of him!" Antonia implored her. "What followed? Have they done him
                        harm? Is he well? Is he free?"
                    "I can tell you nothing about him, except that he still pursues his labor
                        upon the Guadalquivir!" the widow declared positively. " I have not seen
                        him. The word I bring and the favor I do him and you and myself is by the
                        procurement of Don Hernando Perez del Pulgar who rode in hot haste after me
                        to Navarre for the purpose."
                    "Give me the word, then," Antonia asked. "Why do you come?"
                    "You are to go hence with the King's messenger who will wait upon the
                        superior to-morrow. Make no objection. Submit and go willingly. Be assured
                        you will not be regretted nor marvelled at that you choose to depart."
                    
                    "Do you mean that I am to consent to wed Lerin when I do not intend to do
                        it?" Antonia demanded.
                    "Nay, the question will not be put to you. Who flees with Antonia de Aragon
                        to-morrow lies in the hills to-night waiting for me to say whether or not
                        the convent walls contain you."
                    "But the King's messenger would know!"
                    "He would. This messenger comes from another than the King, and his order is
                        written by another hand than the King's. Don Beltran provided the one, and I
                        the other. Go peaceably, then. Yield yourself wholly to all the plot in your
                        behalf, for it means liberty for you and life for me!
                    "A vessel of your lord's merchant fleet hath stopped in Malaga harbor these
                        many weeks, pretending to load goods but in truth waiting for you!" the
                        widow continued. "Ali Hacen, friend and steward of Don Beltran, is its
                        master. Once in the hands of your lover's emissaries, you are to be carried
                        hence and shipped forth-with to Tangier. There you will be placed in
                        possession of his fortune as a citizen of that port and so free from
                        Ferdinand and from Lerin."
                    But Antonia's yearning would not be held in check.
                    "Am I not to see Don Beltran?" she asked.
                    "I believe not," said the widow. "He is surrounded by certain difficulties
                        which make any step aside from his prescribed labor dangerous to him."
                    "What is it?" Antonia asked.
                    "That I do not know," the widow declared quickly. "Don Hernando would not
                        tell, except enough that should explain to you why he did not come
                        himself."
                    "Will He come? Will he come to me there?" she insisted.
                    "Hope that he will, child!" Doña Marta said earnestly.
                    That uncertain answer, with an element of pity in it unusual in the
                        antagonistic widow, confirmed Antonia in her fear. She slipped down on her
                        pillow and hid  her face in her hands. After a
                        time the widow laid her touch indescribably light upon Antonia's head.
                    "Verily, it seems that no one in the world has had such a rough journey to
                        her heart's desire," she said very gently. "Alas, child! It might be
                        rougher, and it might be sadder. Think how you would feel to go seeking and
                        scheming to make your love wed you and using perforce the publicity of your
                        infamy and all the craft of criminals for your aid! Ah, Antonia! Had I such
                        a faultless love-story in my life as yours, I should proudly endure to weep
                        over the pain of it!"
                    Antonia took the hand that had been laid on her head. She had never before
                        believed in the sorrows of the sinful, but there was something too forlorn
                        in the widow's words to leave any doubt in her mind that Doña Marta was
                        unhappier than she.
                    "Go wed with him," said Antonia in a muffled voice. " Give my little boy
                        friend a name. I will do as I am bid, I promise you."
                    The widow sat up. Antonia felt the silken brushing of her long hair sweep
                        across her face.
                    "Go with God, Antonia. May He give you your heart's desire! You once wakened
                        more hate in me than any other creature under the sun could do. How much you
                        have befriended me, I trust sometime, for your own pleasure, you will know.
                        Heaven help you and me! We are both sorrowful women, and, God knows, to be
                        that is the sorriest thing in the world."
                    She stepped out on the icy stone floor of the cell, shivered a little, and,
                        whispering a farewell, flitted as silently as she had come.
                    The next day's incidents Antonia remembered in after years like an anxious
                        dream. Her morning's wait upon the developments following the widow's visit
                        of the previous night was undisturbed upon the surface, but tense with
                        anxiety underneath. Desperate risks had been taken and were yet to be taken
                        for her liberty. The outcome of detection was unimaginable. But there was no
                        alternative. She knelt in her cell and implored  Heaven to insure the safety of all that helped her, and especially the
                        welfare of him to whom her love had brought misfortune and loss.
                    At noon an imposing cavalcade under a standard appeared on the stony area
                        before the gate of the convent. A gorgeously habited dame, accompanied by a
                        knight or two, a pair of squires, and as many pages, advanced to the gate
                        and held parley with the portress behind her grating. The portress summoned
                        the sour superior, to whom, upon her demand, the richly habited dame
                        delivered certain papers. The superior satisfied herself with the
                        credentials and, calling Antonia, bade her make ready for departure.
                    Some time later Antonia emerged from the gates and was assisted to mount a
                        mule. Her faithful tirewoman, who had followed her into imprisonment, was
                        similarly mounted, and the stately procession moved away from the meagre
                        convent with all the dignity and leisure of emissaries from many kings.
                    But at the bottom of the mountain Doña Marta halted her retinue and, bidding
                        Antonia ride after her, turned through a copse. From its leafy brake the two
                        women emerged presently upon a road. Here, lying on the herbage that
                        bordered the way, were two knights. Near by were four horses, tethered and
                        grazing.
                    "Allons, chevaliers," said Doña Marta dryly. "Here is your bird."
                    The knights sprang lightly to their feet. One was Garcilaso de la Vega, the
                        other was Hernando Perez del Pulgar. Antonia, with a sinking heart, saw
                        that, indeed, she was not to see Beltran.
                    "Madame," said Garcilaso, baring his head to the widow, "my gratitude and my
                        admiration to you forever!"
                    "Let be!" said Doña Marta, waving her hand. "I but push mine own affairs. I
                        am candid enough to admit that, had your affairs and mine failed to be
                        identical, I should not be here."
                    "I shall be pleased," said Hernando shrewdly, "if  the matter carries so well to the end. How did you
                        proceed?"
                    "That, sir," the widow answered tartly, "boots you naught! He of the exploits
                        finally found a task that he must needs consign to the hands of a woman to
                        execute! I am your better in either extreme, good or bad!"
                    Hernando laughed and nodded. The widow extended her arms to Antonia, who
                        embraced her, and without another word Doña Marta turned her palfrey and
                        plunged back through the copse. In a twinkling her cavalcade was heard
                        proceeding at a rapid rate over the shingly trails toward the northeast.
                    Hernando stood still, looking at the bushes that screened the widow's
                        departure. But Garcilaso turned quickly to Antonia, handing at the same time
                        a roll of garments to the tirewoman.
                    "We are encompassed about with perils, sweet lady," he said. "I pray you
                        submit to my ordering and ride as it seems best to me. That we may not be
                        remarked except as knights travelling with attendants, habit yourself and
                        your woman in these garments and let us be gone. The least inkling of your
                        escape before the proper time will undo us all."
                    This earnest charge put to flight the first shrinking and alarm that were
                        beginning to possess Antonia, thus suddenly precipitated into an adventurous
                        escape. She withdrew into the bushes with her serving-woman and got into the
                        pretty garments of a page, now no longer an unfamiliar dress to her. The
                        servant donned the garb with much less ease and unconcern.
                    Through the furzy screen she could hear Don Hernando's bluff voice in
                        alternate laughter and comment as he abandoned Lerin to his fate.
                    "If the Moors had been widows, brother mine," he declared, " the Christian
                        army would long ago have been driven off land's end into the sea."
                    The convent lay one day's hard riding from Malaga,  by roads that led over mountains, the wildest in Spain,
                        through streams and under beetling fastnesses haunted by bandits and through
                        Antiquera, where Beltran had been captured almost ten years before, over the
                        mountains of Malaga and across a populous valley down to the sea.
                    To cover the road at breakneck speed was an experience worthy the mettle of
                        the bold cavaliers of the exploits. Antonia had spent ten months in
                        confinement, but the endurance and hardiness of her ten years of veteran
                        life were not to be offset by even so protracted a period of soft
                        living.
                    By the time they reached the smell of the orange-groves on the fat lands
                        about Malaga Antonia had been in the saddle sixteen hours. Her tirewoman had
                        been lifted out of hers and placed upon Hernando's saddlebow and her mount
                        turned loose in less than half of that time.
                    Don Garcilaso was provided with the necessary permission from the crown to
                        leave Spain and to take with him his servants, but Don Hernando had no
                        pilgrimage to Rome to make, nor was he needed after the water's edge was
                        reached. So he took over the horses into his own care, bade his brother in
                        arms an affectionate farewell, hesitated over Antonia, with his eyes on her
                        bridle-blistered hands, and finally, to her own discomposure and Don
                        Garcilaso's astonishment, kissed her on the forehead with the most paternal
                        kindness and went his way at once.
                    A dory pulled them out to a snug caravel with a checkered flag that lay well
                        hemmed in by half a hundred like it in the offing.
                    A watchman with his head hanging over the rail was waiting curiously on their
                        approach when Garcilaso stood up in the boat as it came alongside. A word
                        from the knight brought a dark-faced man in Christian garb, who cast one
                        look over the side and ordered a ladder lowered.
                    
                    In a few minutes Antonia set foot upon the merchant ship of Beltran Ponce de
                        Leon. Garcilaso and the dory hand, helping the almost helpless doncella,
                        followed.
                    The dark-faced man in Christian dress looked at the deadly weary face of the
                        maid in a page's dress, who stood as if ready to drop upon the slightly
                        tilted deck of the caravel. With an Oriental's elegance of manner he saluted
                        her with his hospitality.
                    "It were cruel even to stay to bid thee welcome," he said. "Thy comfort
                        first; what we have to tell thereafter!"
                    He clapped his hands and gave an order in his own tongue to a sailor, who
                        answered. A Moorish handmaiden, swathed in white garments, stole into the
                        group and with a soft touch and a childlike smile dumbly led Antonia
                        away.
                    Sometime, long after, Antonia aroused from the slumber into which she had
                        fallen while the velvet-handed Moorish woman was rehabiting her in her
                        proper dress. The handmaiden, squatting at the side of her couch, noted that
                        she was awake and glided out of the cabin.
                    A moment later she reappeared and, making signs that she was about to be
                        visited, helped the knightly maid to sit up and opened the door of the
                        cabin. Don Garcilaso, with capa and hat removed and a certain air of
                        permanence in his presence, came in and asked to be allowed to sit beside
                        her.
                    "I have," he began, "Beltran's endorsement of Hacen. His long life with this
                        man, who was his enemy and who became his friend, makes his judgment sound.
                        I have spoken with Hacen myself, and withal I am confident in commending him
                        to you as honorable and true to his trust. At this end of my mission, sweet
                        lady, I must put before you all that hath been planned in your behalf, for
                        now, as ever, you have still the right to an 'ay' or a 'nay.' I must,
                        however, accomplish all that lies in my power for Beltran. If I could have
                        joined him to you, I would at any cost. It is my greatest grief  that you must still abide in uncertainty and
                        distress. But believe, I pray you, in the Almighty God's love for a good man
                        and expect a happy outcome of your constancy and your love."
                    "You speak as if he were about to die," she said pitifully.
                    "Don Beltran has engaged himself against mortal powers for your sake, Doña
                        Antonia. I thank God that your deserts are equal to his sacrifice. But he
                        bade me say to you that he would come, and it has been my experience that
                        the lad is true to his word."
                    He put his hand into his doublet and drew forth several rolls of
                        parchment.
                    "Perchance," he said with a smile, "now that I have assured you as to the
                        honor of your steward and the worth of your knight, it might fairly follow
                        that I should have a word to say of myself. But Don Beltran chose me.
                        Methinks his judgment in mine own case is still reliable."
                    "All that Spain knows of you, sir," she said, "hath been to your honor and to
                        my confidence."
                    "This, if it please God, Spain will not know!" he returned. "And when I have
                        done you have still your 'ay' and your 'nay,' you remember."
                    "We are going to Tangier," he said. "That, you know, is Portuguese soil.
                        There you are both quit of the persecutions of Calcena and free from the
                        power of the King. But you are an unmarried woman, and as such you may not
                        hold property nor live without a guardian. Beltran wishes to convey to you
                        his Mediterranean commerce—his ships, his warehouses, and his
                        dwelling in Tangier—for your support until what time he may join
                        you. Here"—laying a roll of writing in her hand—"should
                        the unforeseen happen ere that day, is his will."
                    She took the roll, trembling, and without hope waited upon Garcilaso's
                        further speech.
                    "For many reasons," the knight continued, "first and  above all, because of his love for you, next, to protect you
                        from high-handed work by the King, and last, to make all these contracts
                        legal, you must be bound to Beltran in marriage."
                    How could that follow when Beltran's coming was a matter of such uncertainty?
                        She looked in frank perplexity at Garcilaso, who was smiling a little.
                    "In Tangier, on Portuguese soil, where as yet the Inquisition carries no
                        interdict, in the parish in which your steward Hacen lives a good Catholic,
                        your wedding may be celebrated, but with your Beltran's friend and brother
                        in arms as his proxy."
                    He halted and waited until she had turned over that astonishing statement in
                        her mind.
                    "Can you wed me in Beltran's name?" she asked.
                    "I can, and with your permission, sweet lady, I will."
                    "And I be Beltran's wife?"
                    "And you be Beltran's wife, and I, my Sancha's lord, in all faith."
                    She drew in her breath.
                    "If Beltran is contented and your golden one satisfied, it behooves me to
                        thank God for the device and Don Garcilaso for his courtesy!"
                    "How you lift my heart!" he declared. "And how glad your lover will be! Here,
                        then," he went on, offering the second scroll, "is his marriage contract.
                        Preserve it jealously. It is law and command, for your safeguard and to my
                        authority. Here, next, is his letter to you."
                    This she took quickly from his hands and pressed it to her breast.
                    "And this last and by far the sweetest charge that a knight ever resigned to
                        his friend."
                    He took her hand and slipped upon her finger Beltran's betrothal ring.
                    Yielding suddenly to the pressure of her emotions, she dropped her head into
                        her cushions, with her lips upon the golden band. Garcilaso rose.
                    
                    "Poor maid!" he said softly. "How all this empty form mocks you!"
                    He laid Ms hand on her head with a sympathetic caress; there was the sound of
                        a door closing, and silence fell.
                    Beltran had sent her away ahead of the storm. But did it not gather above his
                        head, black and threatening? Whenever the knights spoke of him it was with
                        bated voice as if they knew things that weighed upon them, which they had
                        resolved not to betray to her. Like an ever-present threat, Calcena's
                        terrifying countenance rose before her mental vision. And then all was made
                        clear to her. Her peril at the royal inquisitor's hands had been transferred
                        to Beltran. He had attempted to take Colon; he had been about to seize the
                        Irishman; now, of a surety, he had fallen upon the one who could not escape
                        him and who knew.
                    She sprang to her feet. His wife! No, by all the merciless certainty of
                        death, his widow—sent away to escape Lerin and to be kept in
                        ignorance of her lover's dread end!
                    She rushed to the door and wrenched it open, resolved to go back and die for
                        him.
                    But in her stress of feeling she had not noticed the light toss and swing of
                        her little house nor the steady swish nor the faint sound like the singing
                        of viol strings about her. But when the door yielded in her hands she
                        saw.
                    It was a fair wind.
                    Spain was already a blue shadow under the rays of a setting sun.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXVIII
                    THE DAY OF DISASTER
                    EVEN to the most uninformed brain it was plain that the
                        great work was done. The last mile of cribbing was under process of
                        demolition; the laborers, as the task shaped itself to require fewer hands,
                        were collected into camp under guard; supplies were located and listed; the
                        long trench where the river had been widened was made clean, and the
                        Guadalquivir was released into its new territory; the restored canals ran
                        bankful, and the levees were already grown with vegetation. As far as the
                        eye could reach the broad breast of the stream, once more the great river,
                        was as full of craft as a brook with leaves in an autumn forest. Sevilla and
                        Cordova had come to their own.
                    It was the first day of August. Don Beltran Ponce de Leon had just been
                        informed by Don Garcilaso de la Vega, who had returned from Tangier, that
                        Antonia de Aragon was now by law and the church the wife of Don Beltran. And
                        then Don Garcilaso had ridden hastily away in search of his redoubtable
                        brother in arms, Don Hernando Perez del Pulgar, for it was evident that Don
                        Beltran must needs be rescued, and that very soon.
                    While Don Garcilaso's youthful figure, helmet-crest, spear tip, and all, were
                        yet visible down the dusty road a messenger in the colors of the Marques de
                        Cadiz rode up and informed the engineer that his uncle had sent for him.
                    Beltran was not a little uncertain about the meaning of the call. He returned
                        to his tent and, gathering up  his reports and
                        records, turned them over to Don Francisco Ramirez de Madrid, who had been
                        recently assigned to aid in the labor on the Guadalquivir.
                    Then the royal engineer took a felucca, two oars of which were the members of
                        the Santa Hermandad who were guarding him, and responded to his uncle's
                        summons.
                    As his boat drew up to the new wharfs of Sevilla, aswarm with dockmen,
                        sailors, and citizens, he was noted duly. But his arrival met with no
                        welcome, where months before he would have walked through an uproarious
                        greeting. When he passed out into the open places of the city, where gather
                        the numerous idle, the lounger, the tradesman, the hawker of small wares,
                        and the seeker of adventure—in short, the voice of the people
                        —a thicker silence than an unknown would have cast over the
                        pavements assailed him.
                    The loud-voiced critic, the incurable conservative, and the whisperer had
                        caught the ear of the mass, who had grown accustomed to their idol. Then
                        came the tremendous news of his fall, of his impending disgrace at the hands
                        of the Inquisition; and his descent into disfavor had been as rapid as his
                        rise. No honor was to follow the achievements of this man; always police
                        dogged his steps. They had been mistaken in him. He was out of the common of
                        his time, and therefore unsafe. Whatever he had done could have been
                        dispensed with or done otherwise. He was after all a disturber of good old
                        usages and the father of spectacular innovations for his own aggrandizement.
                        Withal it were best to forget that they had ever shouted vivas after Beltran
                        Ponce de Leon and to insist that they had always regarded him with
                        doubt.
                    So the silence went with him on and up and into the great mansion of the
                        Marques-Duque de Cadiz.
                    But the last of Beltran's rancor at the people and suspicion of his uncle
                        dissolved in grief and pity when, stepping into the bedchamber of the
                        marques, he found  the great hero of the
                        Moorish War yielding to the foe that he had outwitted so long.
                    "I am no such a great warrior after all, Beltran," the dying nobleman said,
                        "to let the old enemy creep upon me at forty-eight."
                    Beltran sat on the edge of the bed and held the clay-colored hand.
                    "Tell them to leave you with me for a time," the marques whispered,
                        indicating with his eyes the attendants and the physicians who stood about
                        the chamber. When these had withdrawn at Beltran's word the marques
                        nodded.
                    "No matter what they think," he said. "This concerns the succession. Beltran,
                        thou art to be mine heir."
                    The young man regarded his uncle with some uncertainty. It was possible that
                        the disease had swept away all memory of his nephew's predicament. Beltran
                        was at loss how to answer without disturbing the dying man.
                    "Nay, uncle, give it to Francesca's child. She is your own flesh and blood,
                        and wedded to Villagarcia, who hath a sound claim to your title. I am no
                        material for a marques-duque."
                    "Because you have gone adventuring with life, my boy, need be no obstacle.
                        You fear that you would risk the honor of the house if you assume it. Let
                        be, my son! There is no call for you to renounce your fortune."
                    It was plain that the marques was possessed of his faculties, and a wild hope
                        that fate had relented struggled in Beltran's breast. He gazed with wistful
                        eyes at the sage expression that moved over his uncle's gray face.
                    "The King does not desire your ruin," the marques went on. "Even if he were
                        your bitter enemy instead of a justly angered King, I can do much with him.
                        He is potent over the Inquisition. If he bade a prosecution stop, why, stop
                        it must.
                    "If your lady had gone her way to Heaven in your  youth, Beltran," the marques continued, "without doubt you would love
                        another. As with yourself, it would be the same with her. Why will you do
                        dire things and pull death down on your head for a flame that you would not
                        miss were it well damped?"
                    Beltran pressed the hand he held and broke in upon his uncle's speech.
                    "My best-beloved uncle, you offer me what I had liefer have in all the
                        world—next to mine Antonia. But if I cannot have her I do not care
                        for life. I am even that far gone in love with her. I would not give her up
                        if I could, and I could not if I would, for she is the wife of my
                        bosom."
                    The marques half raised himself at the shock that this calm declaration dealt
                        him.
                    "Mother of God! What have you done?" he exclaimed.
                    "I have exemplified my knight's oath to the letter," Beltran responded, "and
                        you behold how this chivalrous age regards it. Give ear. I will tell you
                        all, nor leave one cause untold."
                    And while the dying nobleman listened, holding fast to his nephew's hand,
                        Beltran laid bare in detail his whole history from the hour he had seen
                        Antonia approach the Jews at the ruined tower until the moment the silence
                        of Sevilla and the police of the Santa Hermandad had followed him to the
                        door of his uncle's mansion.
                    Not once did a shade of dissent cross the face of the dying man. Instead, his
                        eyes glistened with the many feelings that the story awakened in him whose
                        love had made him blind to everything but the welfare of the one so loved.
                        When Beltran had done the marques put off his covering and threw his wasted
                        frame from the bed.
                    "You have done no ill!" he declared. "By Heaven, I am prouder than ever of
                        you! You shall not suffer for it if I can help it, alive or dead!"
                    
                    He plucked Beltran's arm and, refusing the young man's offered help,
                        staggered through chambers into an unused hall that ended against a blank
                        wall.
                    "The secret stair! The sealed chamber! You shall hide there!" he whispered.
                        "Felipe, who is dumb and can tell nothing, shall feed you! And when the
                        search leads in another way you shall take my fastest horse—a
                        ship—"
                    He fumbled over the blank wall, and a panel slid, revealing a
                        sunshine-flooded stair terminating in a loft of raw stone.
                    "Up! Up!" the dying man trembled. "It was built for this—to save
                        myself, if ever—to save you now, my son."
                    But Beltran freed himself from the feeble clutch and took the wavering figure
                        in his arms.
                    "Ay, mine uncle," he said, "and set Calcena's dogs beside thy dying-bed; send
                        thy widow to the secret chamber; thy goods to his possession and heap infamy
                        upon thy name as a traitor to thy church? Nay; by the blood of my father! I
                        were no Ponce to escape at thy peril! Never!"
                    He lifted the marques and carried him back to his bed.
                    "Be of comfort, my lord! Peace light thy steps to the stars! God spare thee
                        any memory at all of Beltran if it gives thee pain!"
                    He pressed his lips to the dying man's forehead, dewed with collapse, and
                        laid the inert hands a moment on his head.
                    But the marques made no response. Praying that he might never arouse to
                        recall the grief that had over-taken him in his last hours, Beltran withdrew
                        sorrow-fully from the chamber.
                    Without the fortified entrance to the residence of the marques he noted his
                        guards lounging, like indolent Sevillanos, one against a wall, another
                        seated on the curb, unmoved by the mercilessness of their task, alive only
                        to the sunshine and the convenience of to-morrow.  Since his experience in the death-chamber of his uncle the
                        surveillance of these men, which had daily magnified in torment, suddenly
                        became intolerable.
                    His nerves were in a high state of tension. The time would run out at any
                        hour; any day the King might send for Antonia, when, her flight discovered,
                        the blow would fall. For the past several days he had lived expecting a hand
                        on his shoulder. A sudden sound, a word in his ear made him start. His sleep
                        of late had been semiconscious, and he could not remember when he had eaten
                        a full meal.
                    Now, with his heart contracting with grief, the sight of his guards waiting
                        on him to resume their stalk filled him with desperation.
                    He turned down toward the wharf, passed hurriedly through the crowds, stepped
                        into his felucca, into which his guards followed him immediately, and pushed
                        off down the Guadalquivir. He was resolved to make a dash for liberty.
                    His work was finished. The small details of submitting a report and
                        discharging the camps of laborers at the King's will, the odds and ends of
                        clean-up, and the formal surrender of the completed work to the use of the
                        world could be done by any hand than his. It would be no breach in his honor
                        to omit it.
                    The next morning, with no definite plan in mind, he ordered his horse and,
                        without an attendant, set off down the road toward the sea.
                    Once on the highways, fetlock-deep in August dust, with the bow of the hazy
                        sky over his head, Beltran rode into crowds of people. They were weeping,
                        bearing burdens, bearing little ones, bearing their old and infirm. Few were
                        mounted; few had sumpter-mules.
                    Covered with the dust of the roads, weary with grief and broken with despair,
                        they passed as an allegory of the masses of the age—moving in
                        sorrow, under oppression, into the unknown.
                    So much involved in his own difficulties, Beltran had  forgotten for a time the events of the world about him. Like a
                        flash he remembered.
                    The Jews! Their day of banishment!
                    Wailing, calling upon the God of their fathers, who had hidden Himself,
                        shouldering for an unnumbered time the curse of their race, they passed on
                        their unnumbered exodus in search of the promised land, where, in freedom,
                        they might worship their God!
                    Beltran suddenly owned a sensation that he had never loved life so little.
                        Oppression was unanimous—universal. There was no refuge for man
                        from his fellow. The great Marques de Cadiz, idol of Spain and held in
                        unlimited esteem by his sovereigns, had built his secret stair to escape
                        from an oppression that even he had no assurance would not overtake him.
                    He felt a momentary conviction that the millennium must be at hand, and out
                        of that pessimism stole the face of Luis de Santangel, who, for years had
                        confronted that which threatened Beltran now. The fair vision that he had
                        depicted for the persuasion and comfort of the con verso rose before him.
                        Unsubstantial, impossible, a glorious day-dream! But through his distress he
                        felt a childish, wistful longing to live to see what Colon might
                        discover!
                    He scarcely looked at the river; Antonia was a far-away pain in his heart. He
                        seemed to be about to ride into a great blank, an endless time when he would
                        no longer be master of events.
                    At an intersection of a road leading in from the southeast, near the
                        beginning of Las Marismas, he glanced down the way to see a party of gentles
                        fully caparisoned and escorted by a color-bearer riding rapidly down from
                        the direction of the blue hills.
                    The highway at that point passed southeast, leaving far to the north the flow
                        of the Guadalquivir. Beltran had built a temporary road for his
                        supply-trains along the banks of the river, and now he turned into his
                        private way and rode down to the water's edge. Hereabout the  Soil was clay and had been sedgy, now
                        waist-high with a new kind of vegetation. Hundreds of acres within range of
                        his vision would be fit for tillage after an overflow or two. There were
                        peasants driving their cattle out of the growth as he rode. Below him, the
                        river divided, rolling a small stream south to the eastward of the main
                        channel and one to the west. Between he could see the monotonous stretch of
                        the hopeless marsh-lands.
                    Through the silence as he advanced he heard the leisurely tramp of horses
                        behind him. Travellers did not come this way; none but the relentless two of
                        the Santa Hermandad would follow on his road. But above this sound now he
                        heard a storm of hoofs bearing down upon him, and he turned his head.
                    It was the party of the Conde de Lerin that he had seen riding in
                        empty-handed from the blue hills, and it was the Conde de Lerin who had
                        spied him from afar. And now, raging and swearing vengeance, the defeated
                        nephew of the King was bearing down upon him for whom he had sought from the
                        hour when the terrified and bewildered superior of the convent near Lucena
                        had told him that Antonia de Aragon was gone, had departed from her charge
                        months before, and had shown the King's order, forged, at Doña Marta's
                        procuring, by some venal Navarrese hand.
                    At this critical moment, and mainly because Beltran's emotions were strained
                        to a point where an outbreak might occur through any channel, the engineer
                        saw Lerin's temper at a ridiculous angle.
                    He had only to look at the conde sweeping toward him, his sword aloft, his
                        dark face deadly with rage, to be taken with a paroxysm of helpless
                        laughter.
                    "Brigand!" Lerin foamed, leaping from his horse.
                    "Dismount and taste your death!"
                    "Nay, now," Beltran protested, "your anger blinds you to a proper course. You
                        know that I am soon to be arrested and put away! Why fight?"
                    "Will you come down?" Lerin raged. "I will be your  chastisement as I have been your victim, beast without
                        honor!"
                    Beltran's tanned face hardened.
                    "A man full of epithets is always short of argument. You do well to talk of
                        honor in your corselet and casque and I an unarmored man!"
                    "The rules of chivalrous combat are waived for such as you! I mean to punish
                        a criminal, not to fight a duel!"
                    Beltran leaped from his horse, wrapped his left arm in his capa and was ready
                        by the time Lerin ran at him around the animal.
                    Rage, impetuosity, and advantage combined had everything to do with the
                        action of the conde. He wore the usual breast and back plate with a helmet
                        which constituted the light armor for a warrior's travel in times of peace,
                        and he knew that his injury at the hands of a man in a leather jerkin and
                        fibre hat was extremely improbable. To him the termination of the fight
                        would be sure, with his superior height, his heavy sword, and marvellous
                        skill.
                    But when Beltran Ponce de Leon had laid aside armor and assumed leather, he
                        had taken up his bird-spit sword, of unusual length, wafer-like thinness,
                        and pointed like a needle. Lean from prolonged daily activity, so light of
                        foot and quick of movement, the engineer's ensemble was the embodiment of
                        that dawning new era of fence, as opposed to the stout, heavy sword-play of
                        chivalry.
                    Even then, with the best representatives of the two schools in action, that
                        was a rude fight compared to the skill that either knight would have shown
                        had they been armed alike. Lerin had a peculiar, wincing feeling as the
                        pointed flame of sunlight on Beltran's weapon jetted at him in peculiar
                        parries and feints. His own long arm was offset by the greater length of the
                        weapon his adversary handled. He found himself exposed with his sword
                        upswung. His down blow was always sidestepped; his side swing eluded. Dimly
                        he realized that  it was possible to be too
                        tall and too heavy; that his kind of sword art was not sufficiently diverse;
                        that his armor hampered him; that a knight loses power in a year's soft
                        living; that this red-haired thistle-down was not human; that there was
                        something in combat that he had not yet mastered. And at that he was halted
                        by a hot crippling pain that seemed to catch and paralyze him in his step.
                        Beltran drew back a pace and rested the point of his weapon upon the ground,
                        assured that the fight was at an end. Surprise, pain, and anger covered
                        Lerin's face as his right leg, useless as a log, failed to respond to his
                        will. He lost balance with the effort, dropped upon his knee, then awkwardly
                        to the ground.
                    "You have hamstrung me!" he panted between his clinched teeth.
                    "A fair enough play, my lord," said Beltran calmly, "in an unfair fight."
                    "Push your advantage, villain," Lerin cried.
                    Beltran put up his sword and walked over to his horse. A glance over his
                        shoulder showed him Lerin's party dismounting to their chief's aid.
                    "I do not care to kill you," Beltran said. "I am much better pleased to allow
                        you to. enjoy your lameness. In some measure you will know how sweet a
                        ruined life may be—as mine, or Antonia's, or Doña Marta's."
                    Then Lerin, summoning breath and endurance, snatched a pipe that hung from
                        his neck inside his corselet and blew a blast that his retinue understood
                        and answered. Every man who had alighted threw himself into his saddle
                        again, but by the time they had set in motion to ride down Lerin's
                        vanquisher, every hummock and shrub gave up a galloping horseman
                        —the whole Seviilian body of the Santa Hermandad of the
                        Inquisition.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXIX
                    AUTHORITIES CLASH
                    "I HAVE settled my business; I have made my peace with
                        God," said Beltran to himself. "I have only to draw my last breath, now to
                        die like a gentleman."
                    That small detail, as Lerin's troop of Navarrese lances and the Santa
                        Hermandad descended upon him from every direction, seemed about to ask
                        attention. The spot at which he and the Conde de Lerin had settled their
                        differences lay between Utrera and the marshes. The little village on the
                        plain was in sight. There were paisanos in the fields and travellers on the
                        road that lay away from the riverside. Every man's hand would be deputized
                        by the Inquisition to capture its victim. But Beltran laid lash on his horse
                        and headed straight for the marshes.
                    It was the specific injunction of the Inquisition that its victims be taken
                        alive. This was particularly explicit in the case of Beltran Ponce de Leon,
                        since Calcena intended to wrest from him the name of the person who had
                        purloined the royal secretary's reputation.
                    But Lerin, calling his retinue to his aid, had the destruction of his enemy
                        in mind without regard to any previous claim upon Beltran's person.
                    His lances were doughty blades, devotedly attached to their chief and
                        standing upon no man's order but his own. In their kingdom the authority of
                        the Inquisition had no force. The Santa Hermandad commanded no respect in
                        them, even had they recognized the body hurtling down upon their quarry as
                        the police of Spain.
                    Every wight of the conde's redoubtable force unslung a bow, fitted it with a
                        quarrel, and let fly.  Instantly a shout of
                        protest went up from the Santa Hermandad. Those who stood in Beltran's way
                        were a fair target for the bolts, and lying down on their horses' necks they
                        began to shout:
                    "Hold! Hold! Faitours of heresy! The Santa Hermandad!"
                    Two or three of the inquisitorial police galloped between their victim and
                        the Navarrese with their arms up to protect Beltran from the shots. Those of
                        Lerin's force who did not understand Spanish saw in the police confederates
                        of Beltran. The others, resenting the Santa Hermandad's meddling in their
                        chase, precipitated themselves upon the police that stood in their way and,
                        in the general rough-and-tumble conflict that followed, the number of
                        Beltran's pursuers were reduced to a mere decimal of that which it had
                        been.
                    Not in the least misunderstanding the sudden lull about him, Beltran drove at
                        the first to ride into his path, dirked him, careened around the riderless
                        horse, and, with two of the Santa Hermandad at his horse's crupper, made the
                        last rod to the edge of the water in a hand-to-hand mounted combat.
                    It was one of the canalizos before him with a jungly island of tall reeds
                        separating it from the eastern subsidiary channel of the Guadalquivir.
                        Beltran's horse, fearing the smell of bog before him, planted his feet at
                        the edge and refused to jump. Sheathing his bird-spit, Beltran flung himself
                        from the horse, dodged under the arms of the nearest police, and leaped into
                        the water.
                    He swam a rod under the muddy surface of the water, clambered up the miry
                        edge on the opposite side, and the fifteen-foot growth of marsh grass closed
                        over his head.
                    It was a blind thicket. But Beltran—friend and intimate of the great
                        river—pushed forward confidently. Even through the green dusk of
                        the reedy forest he could hear on the eastern channel the rainy splashing of
                        the oars of craft that he must pass before he could  be safe from immediate capture. His plan was to push below
                        sight of the chase on the edge of the canalizo and swim the Guadalquivir at
                        a point where the masters of vessels and boatmen would not know him to be a
                        fugitive of the Inquisition.
                    He gained the lower end of the island and found to his joy the river clear
                        for a quarter of a mile. He put off his riding-boots here, and fastening
                        them together, hung them about his neck, settled his sword-belt so that the
                        scabbard would not interfere with his swimming, and plunged into the stream.
                        When he came ashore, he was upon the true marsh in the embrace of the main
                        channel and its branch.
                    By this time he was well lost to his pursuers. Over his track the wild birds
                        circled, screaming. The woody-stemmed, broad-leaved reeds shook and toppled
                        on each side of his progress. But while from the river his course was
                        well-enough defined, whoso plunged into the jungle after him lost sight of
                        these clues and was surrounded with unfamiliar perils.
                    All the long months of survey now counted an immeasurable profit to the
                        fugitive. He knew every danger, be it quicksand, eddy-hole, or island of
                        matted roots. He could tell direction by the way the flowers faced and by
                        the rocking of the reeds in the wind. His labor had helped the marshes in a
                        measure. The tide was out, and areas that once would have been saturated
                        were now comparatively dry. But the boggy soil threatened him at every step.
                        Every footfall was taken with instinctive caution. Hummocks of a kind of
                        mossy grass, stones here and there, and drift-wood from overflows and
                        brought in by storm tides afforded him help. Time and again he groped his
                        way past slow and torturing death on his way to the main channel of the
                        river.
                    The wet smothering heat weakened him; insects stung him over every spot of
                        his exposed face and hands; the fetid smells were strong with the scent of
                        fever; and  the flagellation of saw-toothed
                        herbage set up intense physical suffering. He knew that he dared not hide in
                        Las Marismas. Once the tide turned and filled it, in the dark he was
                        inevitably lost.
                    He reached the edge of the main channel, and there he heard the bells,
                    The tocsin bells in Utrera, now in the distance, were beating abroad the
                        Santa Hermandad's alarm to every belfrey within hearing, to be caught and
                        passed from shrine to shrine, from town to town, until all the wide riding
                        of the inquisitorial police was notified to stop every stranger until the
                        Inquisition had seized upon its own.
                    The brink of the marsh he was treading sheered off beneath his feet and
                        carried him, with a fragment of earth and a clump of reeds, into the
                        Guadalquivir.
                    The tide was turning. The wide river was bankful, standing quiet with that
                        mysterious composure of tidal Streams, fringed with yellow reflections of
                        its margin growth and greenly mirroring the hazy sky.
                    Beltran swam cautiously, sensing the tug of an under-current, and was swept
                        diagonally across, where he found difficulty making a landing. He was borne
                        around an arm of the marsh and came in sight of a galley and two luggers,
                        all three bound to Sevilla. His presence thus in the depths of Las Marismas
                        aroused the crews and he was hailed. But he found bottom before the current
                        could bear him out into the midstream again, and floundered ashore.
                    Another great tangle of marsh received him. It was near sunset. He dared not
                        penetrate this treacherous expanse, with darkness so close upon him. He must
                        turn toward the nearest edge, though it was to move back within reach of
                        pursuit.
                    The few remaining minutes of daylight he spent creeping up on the frontier of
                        the wet lands, covered by the background of tall growth into which his
                        figure merged, since all before him the vegetation had shrunk into knee-high
                        golden samphire.  By the time he reached the
                        road skirting the swamp it was dark. But to the north of him, across the
                        west branch of the Guadalquivir, was a village in which a cracked bell in a
                        tower was vigorously relaying the tocsin caught from some nearer neighbor to
                        Utrera, and far ahead, like the faintest ghost of an echo, he heard the
                        higher-pitched, purer tone of the tocsin in the next hamlet miles away.
                    The country was an open plain with a black crater-like rim of hills circling
                        to the north and a dusky sea of fields and orchards starred with lights in
                        the windows of low cortijos here and there.
                    Once out upon solid soil under the cover of a moon-less night, Beltran felt
                        his heart lighten. He was not more than a day's journey from Portugal, where
                        he would be safe. While he debated the problem whether to strike due west or
                        to drop down the coast, he caught a sound that decided him. It was the faint
                        clink, clink of steel upon iron, and a red glow ebbing in and out Under
                        bellows lighted a considerable hollow that had escaped Beltran's eye. He
                        moved cautiously a rod or two down the road and saw, at the foot of a slope,
                        that which was to all appearances a wayside farrier's hut. Three or four
                        horses were stamping in the dark without and as many men were within the
                        redly lighted tumbledown shed. No such body of mounted men in that region
                        could be other than the Santa Hermandad of that province or travelling
                        knights. With some faint hope that friends might be at the foot of the
                        slope, he approached with the greatest caution.
                    One glance served to show him that it was the inquisitorial police, shoeing a
                        horse before they set out to run down the latest fugitive.
                    "Brothers," he said to himself, "this is warfare and your best horse is my
                        booty."
                    He drew his knife, cut a bridle, mounted the beast, and set off at the
                        stillest pace. The stamping of the beasts he had left behind him covered the
                        noise that his flight might have made.  The
                        animal was fresh and easily handled. When he was out of ear-shot from the
                        farrier's hut, he took to the beaten road and galloped toward the sea.
                    He encountered the marshes again as they spread toward the Guadalamar, and
                        turning through fields he struck due westward and crossed this river now all
                        but dry. At midnight, avoiding meantime three or four little clusters of
                        houses, each with a clamoring belfry, he reached the Tinto, now reduced to a
                        mere rivulet under the fervid August sun. The bed was wide and his horse's
                        iron-shod hoofs rattled on the shingle. Beltran made out on the opposite
                        shore what appeared to be young water-sprouts, but the horse corrected him.
                        The animal whinnied and the water-sprouts whinnied in return.
                    The horse-riding Hermandad of that district had heard the traveller coming
                        and was waiting motionless on his approach.
                    Beltran turned swiftly to the south, but his pursuers were too near. The
                        splash and rattle of their plunge through the Tinto was instant. The country
                        was unfamiliar to Beltran, and his horse's flight through the country could
                        not be silent where silence was so necessary. Beltran slipped from the
                        saddle, struck the horse with the bridle and sent him hammering away
                        riderless into the black night. The fugitive dropped in the weeds at the
                        roadside. Past him, so near that the earth from their horses' hoofs
                        spattered over him, swept a half dozen of the Santa Hermandad.
                    Beltran knew that the loose horse would not run long without a hand on the
                        bridle. The Santa Hermandad would retrace their steps once they overtook the
                        riderless animal. Springing out of the weeds he took to the fields running
                        crouched until in the shelter of a little copse, where, straightening, he
                        sped toward the setting stars.
                    He knew that he was not more than twelve miles to the sea, and the body of
                        pursuers from that immediate community had passed him by. He was still fifty
                        miles  from Portugal, with a wide area of
                        policed country to cross. He resolved to go southward to the ocean, trusting
                        to the presence of a vessel in some harbor that might bear him to a foreign
                        country.
                    He examined his gipser, still hanging to his belt and found its contents
                        intact. There was gold enough in it to help him away. His bird-spit sword
                        still swung at his hip, and his leather garments, chosen for hard usage,
                        would not betray him as a fugitive nobleman. If no other way offered itself,
                        he would ship as a sailor, or even take passage with the exiled Jews.
                    He struck a path presently that debouched upon a great highway leading to
                        some port.
                    And here he brought up among the camps of Jews on their way to the sea.
                    Realizing that the Santa Hermandad would expect him to lose himself among
                        these unhappy people and so search every camp for a Christian face that
                        might be wanted by the Inquisition, he again left the highway and continued
                        his flight through the fields.
                    The wailing travellers on the road made the country wakeful and the dogs
                        noisy. Beltran brought no extra clamor from the kennels and no suspicious
                        glances from windows.
                    But about four o'clock in the morning, which was Friday, August 3, 1492, he
                        came to the crest of a little slope, around which the Tinto coiled its way
                        with deeper banks and a wider bosom. It was almost dawn, at least
                        sufficiently light to show him a dim, white-walled monastery surmounting a
                        promontory. Lower on the sandy flat was the spread of a little port, snugly
                        walled, with a great church edifice towering over it. Here the Tinto spread
                        abroad till it joined with a larger river. On the west bank of that stream
                        was another hamlet. Opposite the junction of the two streams was a broad
                        sand-bar protecting a spacious harbor. Beyond that, and raised like a wall
                        against the starry blue of the sky, was the sea!
                    
                    But in the river, sheltered by the bar, at the mouth of the two streams, were
                        three small sea-going caravels, all trimmed, waiting for the height of the
                        tide and the gust of the sunrise wind.
                    Over Beltran's lips slipped an "ave."
                    Searching the map-like spread of the port below him for the straightest way
                        to the water-front, he observed, in the slowly lightening dusk, that which
                        had escaped his first scrutiny. Dancing on the water was a small pinnace,
                        manned. On the wharf was a kneeling cluster of people. His first thought was
                        that they were Jews preparing to depart, as the wailing that rose now and
                        again from quarters of the port proved that many of the miserable exiles had
                        reached land's end.
                    While he watched he saw a standing figure lift its arms, as if in
                        benediction. The pinnace shot away from the quay, wrenching from the
                        kneeling cluster an out-burst of cries and groans.
                    Beltran shook his head. He did not understand.
                    But as he started to descend, his alert ear caught a sound—less than
                        a sound—a pulsation, regularly beating and all but toneless in the
                        air.
                    It was the tocsin of the Santa Hermandad ringing in some far-off village
                        inland its alarm to this seaport.
                    Beltran circled the monastery, passed through the gates, open as all gates
                        were in Spain by the order of the crown to permit the exit and ingress of
                        the exiled Jews, turned through a dark street and entered the square before
                        the great church. A man carrying a staff and a link stepped out of the dark
                        vestibule as Beltran passed In another moment over his head a mighty bell
                        began to pour a brazen alarm into the four quarters of the sleeping land and
                        sea.
                    It was the start that Beltran made, unavoidable because of his long anxiety,
                        that undid him. The man carrying the link saw it and flashed the flame over
                        Beltran's head. The torch revealed a stranger who was not a Jew and who was
                        travel-stained and distressed of  countenance.
                        The man stopped in Beltran's path and ordered him to halt. But for answer,
                        Beltran launched a blow at the fellow and knocked him flat. Circling the
                        prostrate figure, he sprang into a narrow alley and emerged almost
                        immediately on the waterside of the town.
                    With the open offering little chance for covered flight, he raced through the
                        gate and straight ahead while gathering footsteps and shouts in crescendo
                        swept after him.
                    Whatever persons were without the walls were packed upon the wharfs watching
                        with lamentations the neat pinnace scudding out toward the smallest of the
                        three caravels. Intent upon the departure of the boat, no one hindered the
                        fugitive. He circled huts, avoided spread nets upon the sand, racks for
                        fish-drying, upturned boats, stacked lumber, casks and coils of rope, and,
                        with the last burst of his flagging strength and failing breath, waded into
                        the water up to his breast and allowed the waves of the river to lift him
                        off his feet.
                    The excited flurry of pursuers from the town chased up and down the sand
                        without purpose or direction until an enraged and dusty man hurried among
                        them and ordered a boat to be pushed off. By the time a dory was launched
                        and manned, the surface of the river had closed over the fugitive's
                        head.
                    At the rail of the largest of the three caravels, two men in tabards and
                        leg-wrappings of the English rustic, were scanning now the whitening sky,
                        then the pale line of the beach, the fleeting pinnace or the lap of the
                        slick black waves against the hull of the vessel.
                    "Saw you that?" asked one of the other, in the candid tongue of old
                        England.
                    "Marry, and I did! What was it?" the other responded.
                    They both stood alert with their eyes on the dark stream below them. Then one
                        made a slight, inarticulate sound, shed cap and shoes and plunged over the
                             rail into the stream. A moment later his
                        voice sounded out of the dark below.
                    "Heave me a line, my hearty. I have him."
                    The man aboard made a rope fast to a ring and pitched an end of it down into
                        the dusk on the face of the water. His mate presently clambered up, hand
                        over hand, and together they proceeded to hoist the burden.
                    With much effort and many muttered exclamations they heaved the inert figure
                        over the side and stretched it on the empty deck. The man who had gone
                        over-board leaned over his booty.
                    "Body of me! It is a gentle I have salvaged! Look at the bold silver gauds on
                        his jerkin and the silk scarf about his middle. He is fair welter-weighted
                        with flummeries, purse, and all! A sword? What, my lad, were you a knight
                        once?"
                    But when the sailor left his inspection of the booty to direct his question
                        at the drowned man's face, he fell on his knees by the body and cried:
                    "Lend a hand! Roll him, lad! He's alive yet!"
                    "Well, what of it?'" the other answered passively.
                    "Is he a friend of yours, or does he owe you money, belike?"
                    "Are your eyes onions, that you do not know the marques-duque when you see
                        him?" the other vociferated, tumbling the inert body over and over on the
                        deck.
                    "Humph!" said the other with a note of conviction and concern in the guttural
                        and fell to, catching the drowned man about the middle to heave him up and
                        down in a desperate effort to restore life.
                    "Brandy!" demanded the first man, and the other running on light feet to a
                        coil of rope returned with a flask which he uncorked and pressed between the
                        teeth of the patient.
                    Feeling a certain liveness steal into the frame that they were handling so
                        rudely, one said to the other:
                    
                    "He took his wetting on a sudden. It's a hot land for the gentle who walks
                        full-rigged into the sea. What say you to the word that we both got him into
                        this?"
                    "Me, you, and the colleen!" the other vowed. "Calcena and the Inquisition!
                        Plain as Roscam on a fair day! Ay, and to the proof, here they come! I'd
                        know Master Feed-fagot in perdition! Stand by! Throw a sail-cloth over his
                        head!"
                    The boat with the chief of the Hermandad of the province had been rowing
                        swiftly about over the misty expanse of river and some of its occupants had
                        caught sight of a boarding on one of the caravels. The boat pulled
                        alongside. The chief of the Hermandad clambered up by the rope still
                        hanging.
                    "Where is the man you rescued?" he demanded of the two sailors who stood by
                        the wrinkled Stretch of sail.
                    "Here," said the one who had pulled Beltran out of the water.
                    The chief knew that he had been knocked down by a much more lithe and supple
                        person than now; presented himself, but the sailor had committed
                        himself.
                    "Follow me," said the chief.
                    "Not I!" objected the sailor. "The admiral is my commander! I follow no man
                        without his order."
                    "Take him," said the chief to his men.
                    The boatmen who had come aboard caught the sailor by the arms. At that the
                        two set up a cry:
                    "Seizure! Seizure!"
                    The hatch lifted and a few half-awake sailors began to tumble upon the deck
                        of the little vessel. But recognizing the chief of the Hermandad they
                        scattered, circling the struggle, when from port was heard a boat-swain's
                        whistle.
                    Several ran to assist the party aboard from the pinnace that had been
                        visiting the other two caravels and was now come alongside. In a moment
                        Cristobal Colon stepped into the fight that had become general.
                    
                    "Soft! What goes here? Unhand these men!" he commanded.
                    "A fugitive from the Inquisition," the chief panted, "pursued aboard this
                        vessel !"
                    "So? When?"
                    "This instant! He hath been hunted all over Palos by the Holy Order. I saw
                        him climb aboard this vessel!"
                    "This man?" Colon asked, indicating the dripping sailor.
                    "The same," declared the officer.
                    "Sir, you are deceived," said Colon positively. "I left this man on watch
                        here less than an hour ago. To my knowledge he has not been ashore in seven
                        days—nor away from this port in four months. He and his fellow are
                        my watchmen. He is an Irish sailor, signed with the expedition since
                        April."
                    "He admits that he was rescued just now," the chief insisted.
                    Colon turned to the Irishman.
                    "I was not rescued. I went overboard after a bottle that had fallen in," the
                        Irishman explained sheepishly. Colon turned again to the chief.
                    "It is a mistake; it can be easily proven. I would send him ashore with you
                        but it would leave me short-handed and I mean to sail at sunrise."
                    The chief was no longer certain. He was convinced that it was no such
                        square-shouldered plebian as this who had knocked him off his feet. His mind
                        retained a vivid impression of a slender, light-footed apparition, who could
                        run as never a sailor could. Again, the rescue had been but hazily seen in
                        the misty glimmer of the daybreak on the bay. Furthermore, a wrangle over a
                        faint clue might lose him the real fugitive indeed. It occurred to him that
                        he was losing time.
                    He rushed his men to the dory and disappeared over the side without another
                        word.
                    The admiral, followed by his men, walked aft.
                    
                    "Uncover his face, at least," the Irishman whispered. "He will smother under
                        that sail."
                    The sailor so bidden stealthily lifted, with his foot, the corner of the
                        canvas.
                    "Can you get me below, Arthur Law?" Beltran asked at that moment.
                    When Admiral Cristobal Colon walked aft he was scarcely more than thirty feet
                        from the spot where Beltran Ponce de Leon had come aboard the Santa Maria, To cross that little space to the scuttle, in the
                        light of dawn, with the great commander alert and nervous upon the moment of
                        sailing, was the greatest risk the fugitive had to run. The law of the
                        realm, of the church, and of the conscience of the great and devout Genoese,
                        impressed upon him the relentless duty of apprehending and delivering to the
                        authorities, on pain of severe penalty, any fugitive of the Inquisition. To
                        attract Colon's attention with the incident of an escaped fugitive still
                        fresh in his mind, with shore within hailing distance, was, to Beltran's
                        mind, certain disaster. But to lie where he was with day approaching, the
                        crew everywhere about the little deck, was inevitably to be discovered.
                    The Irishman and the Englishman were in the sorest dilemma.
                    "Can your worship see any way ? " the Irishman asked.
                    "One of you might engage the admiral in conversation," Beltran suggested.
                    The Galwayman, with a native assurance stronger than that of his British
                        cousin, marched away. As soon as the square figure of the Irishman stood
                        between him and the Genoese, Beltran got upon his feet. The Englishman
                        opened the hatch. Then Colon turned away from the Irishman, and before him,
                        not a dozen paces halted Beltran Ponce de Leon.
                    Without quickening his step, but with purpose in his face, Colon walked
                        straight toward the dripping figure that braced itself for the inevitable
                        encounter.
                    The Irishman, with a despairing gesture, stepped behind  the mainmast. The Englishman had already dropped out of sight
                        below.
                    Within two paces of Beltran, the Genoese halted abruptly. Recognition swept
                        over his face. In the single instant's wait, Colon saw the Puente Pinos,
                        where last he had seen this young man; looked again into the fresh face
                        smiling under the shadow of its helmet; felt again the warm, strong grasp
                        steadying his own trembling hand; heard again his own voice as he had
                        said:
                    "And thou, bringer of good news, never let me forget thee all the days of my
                        life!"
                    There was a visible straightening of the already erect, magnificent frame of
                        the Genoese, as if he had risen to a duty higher than the law.
                    "Get thee below, friend," he said kindly. "There is a fire in the galley. Bid
                        the cook draw thee a horn of Madrigal. Thou art spent!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXX
                    "THE GREEN SEA OF DARKNESS"
                    WHEN Beltran reached the bricked cuddy where the ship's
                        cook was autocrat, the reaction against his long danger, combined with his
                        physical exhaustion, played foul with his tremulous limbs and laid him at
                        full length under the bare feet of that astonished and irascible genius,
                    Owning an impulse to pitch the fainting intruder into the river, the cook was
                        next stirred with a superstitious fear of the ill omen in a death on board
                        the Santa Maria just as she sailed into the unknown. So to
                        fend off anything of the kind, the cook poured some Gascogny down Beltran's
                        throat, felt of his chest until the heart beat back into rhythm, and then
                        dragged him into a corner and left him to the chance recuperation of quiet
                        and slumber.
                    The crew above were singing a penitential psalm. They had confessed and had
                        been given absolution. Those who had any affairs to settle had settled them.
                        Every preparation that men about to die would make had been made. Now on the
                        moment of sailing, they lifted their ill-matched voices and chanted the hymn
                        of martyrs venturing into the unknown for the sake of mankind.
                    Packing the wharfs and spread along the yellow border of sand, the people of
                        Palos, the neighbors and kin of the crews of the fleet, strove to follow the
                        psalm, but the wailing of the women and children, the mourning of the
                        banished Jews collected on the shore waiting for a passage to open for them
                        out of this Egypt across  a Red Sea to another
                        Palestine, and the mighty booming of the great bell heightened the note of
                        distress until the sound that came to the three caravels over the sparkling
                        waters of the sun-lighted river was in the last degree panic-striking.
                    Blue, pellucid, and pure with morning cool, the sea-sky arched over Spain;
                        golden the sunshine upon the sandy countryside with its vineyards and its
                        orchards. Home love and home beauty never held as now so potent a charm for
                        these voyagers into the unknown.
                    The boatswain's voice rose sharp above the psalm, and the vessel moved as the
                        crew quanted out of the shallow into the run of the current. The sails
                        hoisted, filled with a report, and the irregular motion ceased.
                    The Santa Maria caught a swell under her bows. Slowly and
                        with a breathless inclination, she mounted, careened gently, heeled
                        slightly, and came down.
                    The Atlantic had her in its hand.
                    The little town sank behind the bar, the tower of the church fell low and
                        vanished. Long, long the white-walled monastery stood above the headland,
                        growing smaller and fainter, retreating into the blue of the sky. Long the
                        standard of Christ, the cross above its gate, watched them as if holding
                        them in the care of God as long as it might, and then the great moving plain
                        of the sea circled behind them unbroken, and before unknown.
                    The little fleet was already sixteen hours out of Palos, when Beltran Ponce
                        de Leon roused from his stupor-like slumber in the galley. It was near
                        midnight. The wind drumming the canvas and the water washing before the
                        blunt nose of the Santa Maria were the only sounds he
                        heard. For a time he was at loss to locate himself in the thick, stuffy
                        blackness of the cuddy. Then a simultaneous recollection of his escape from
                        Calcena and his shipping with Colon on a voyage of discovery furnished him
                        alternate sensations of pleasure and uncertainty.
                    Weak from his long fast, he made a blind search of  the black galley and found at last the water-butt and the
                        biscuits. Feeling unequal to a meal in close quarters in his faintness, he
                        felt his way out to the foot of the ladder under the open hatch and ate
                        ravenously in the dropping draft of sea air from above.
                    He presently became aware of some one standing just over his head and caught
                        the undertone of conversation. Colon was the talker, in his lofty manner,
                        but when the answer was made Beltran felt a thrill of new alarm. The voice
                        was familiar, a courtly voice and the tones that of a youth.
                    "Pedro Gutierrez," muttered Beltran. "And he would know me and cry my escape
                        with Colon abroad through Spain as sure as we come home again. Saints, will
                        I have to keep to cover through a voyage indefinitely long?"
                    From the time he had first seen Gutierrez, when the young courtier's
                        interference with a departure from his beloved idea of law had well-nigh
                        killed little José Valdes at the big tent, Beltran had looked upon Pedro as
                        dangerous. Strict adherence to the letter of things was a mania with him.
                        Had life been suddenly stripped of statutes and pragmatics, the young
                        courtier would have wandered wild until he died of his lack of direction.
                        Much as he might regret an exposure of Beltran, he would know of no law that
                        would allow him to evade his instructions on the matter.
                    Colon could hardly have shipped a more certain betrayal of his assistance to
                        the fugitive engineer.
                    Some one about to descend moved Beltran back into the darkness, and presently
                        Colon's servant lighted a lamp and began to prepare a lunch for the admiral.
                        Taking advantage of the light that penetrated to his corner, Beltran made
                        preparation for seamanship while the slow servant pottered about. He
                        stripped his leather jerkin of its embroidered galloons and silver buttons,
                        took off his knight's ring and his chain of the Order of Santiago, and put
                        them away with his goodly  supply of gold coin
                        in his gipser. Wrapping his handkerchief around his head, covering his red
                        hair, and winding his sash about his middle, he lacked only a knife in a
                        lanyard about his neck to be a tolerable sailor.
                    He felt of his cheek and chin.
                    "If by the grace of God my beard will grow," he reflected, "I will trust to
                        young Pedro's being so monstrous haughty that he could not see this homely
                        sailor if I put me in his eye."
                    He found a loose plank in the lining of the Santa Maria
                        well up her side and hid his treasure and his bird-spit sword behind it.
                    But it was not until the small fleet laid up for repairs at the Canaries that
                        he concluded to accompany the expedition. Though still held by the Peraza
                        family, the islands were under the jurisdiction of the Spanish crown and the
                        Inquisition. Where one Portuguese or Mediterranean trader called, three
                        times as many Spanish ships dropped anchor in the harbor. Weeks at a time
                        the shipping might be vacant, and the chances of his waiting unmolested
                        until some foreign vessel arrived depended on the news the Spaniards might
                        bring in the interval. He knew that both Calcena and Ferdinand had cause to
                        search for him with the most unremitting care.
                    He had the alternative of a desperate chance with either choice, and he chose
                        to cast his fortune with Colon.
                    The Santa Maria was a pent absurdity, uncomfortable and
                        unseaworthy, with a cottage-like forecastle skied on the very brink of bow
                        and stern and raking the heavens at every swing of the craft. In these two
                        cabins the admiral and the dour master of the vessel, De Cosa, together with
                        the two crown representatives, took up their giddy quarters. Seventy or more
                        men were stowed away between the ribs of the caravel, and her deck was
                        aswarm at the daily religious services. There were three masts and four
                        anchors, and a long-boat towed at the stern. Overhead' her ill-rigged canvas
                             displayed a great green cross to the wind
                        and the admiral's own pennant streamed from the peak.
                    Such was the gallant craft that the crown of great Spain had provided to
                        trespass the majesty of the unknown deep, the transport to carry the creed
                        of Christ, the glory of Spain, and the triumph of science over tradition
                        into a new world.
                    It was the region about the forecastles that Beltran was put to particular
                        pains to avoid. Beside Pedro Gutierrez he found Don Roderigo de Segovia with
                        the expedition, likewise acquainted with the engineer's disfavor with the
                        King and indictment by the Inquisition. Should either of these two gentles
                        report his presence on the Santa Maria, Colon would be
                        obliged to surrender him to the Holy Order on the return to Spain, or to
                        suffer the consequences.
                    To hide in a packed caravel, twenty by ninety feet, was a feat as difficult
                        as it was necessary. To lurk below was to be suspected; to appear above was
                        to be detected. However, having no fixed duty, he chose to keep company with
                        the night-watch, who were the Irish-man and his gossip, Arthur Law, and to
                        sleep when they did, by day.
                    Putting off from Palos, with its parting from home and kin, had been the
                        master pain for the seamen, but it was the departure from the Canaries that
                        fixed fear as a permanent dweller in their hearts. The towering Pico del
                        Teide upon Teneriffe, brandishing a smoking torch in the sea-wind by day,
                        reddened it with the glare of an eruption suddenly one black night after
                        centuries of repose. A volcano on the known waters of the Mediterranean had
                        no terrors for these mariners, but this sinister flicker of hell-fire on the
                        edge of the unknown filled them with foreboding.
                    After the Canaries melted below their stern, there stretched before them a
                        vacant sea, that was as virgin to the travel of men as the heavens, and,
                        like the heavens, might be as boundless and as much the realm of the
                        supernatural  and as little the element of
                        man. Tradition, history, and the live evidence of contemporary observers had
                        never cast a single benign influence over it.
                    "The Green Sea of Darkness," the Moors called it in their poetical separation
                        of the Atlantic from the world-old intimate of man—the
                        Mediterranean. Compared with all the familiar waters of the earth, it was
                        savage beyond description in its furies and treacherous in its quiet.
                    The unwonted peace into which the expedition sailed had its special
                        interpretation for them. It was the deceit for which malign influences were
                        notorious.
                    The sparkling sea, level as a lake, the fleckless sky, the cloudless sunrise,
                        the golden sunsets, the unabating fair wind that sped them west, the
                        soothing monotony of summer peace on the ocean—all was
                        treachery.
                    Nothing hindered them. The Pinta, fleet as a hare and less
                        than half as large as the Santa Maria, was continually outstripping her
                        mates and had to be caught up with, hove to on the horizon. The merest
                        pretense of seamanship was required. Not a gale was encountered; not even a
                        rising sea for weeks. By night a glorious procession of unfamiliar stars
                        greeted the wondering eyes of those not accustomed to the grand revelations
                        of the sky at sea. By day the sailors swam and fished, and the admiral in
                        his cabin set down the distance in his journal far less than the true
                        figure, lest the Sailors discover with what dire speed and over what
                        appalling number of leagues their fair fleet cruise was carrying them.
                    But out of that vast sparkling calm, one day there came drowning and mounting
                        in trough and swell, silently, stealthily, a broken mast. It was the mute
                        witness that somewhere the dread powers of the unknown had worked their
                        will. Colon meaning to convert the warning into a benefit, made an effort to
                        salvage the fragment, but it eluded him and disappeared into the
                        limitless.
                    Then one glorious night a meteor of great brilliance  careened across a vast arc of sky and exploded in fan-shape,
                        delivering to the sea a far-off detonation and to the heavens the red scar
                        of its passage.
                    Then one by one in rapid succession the corroborations of tradition as old as
                        the first venturing keel of man came up out of the unknown.
                    The yellow sea meadows and thickets of weed surrounded them. For days they
                        groped their way, dreading rocks, ploughing heavily, with windrows of tangle
                        banking up before their prows and streamers trailing after their stern. But
                        the terror finally broke up into drifts and fragments, and the smell and the
                        insects were left behind.
                    Having shaken off the weed that ensnared their keels, they sailed into calms
                        that were infamous as the ultimate end of all adventure into the west, where
                        ships were said to stagnate until they rotted and dropped piecemeal into the
                        sea.
                    By the skilfulest navigation they edged into the winds again. And now they
                        began to see long blue coasts with hills and harbors and the arms of capes.
                        Birds flew about their rigging and settled on their cross-trees, and the
                        rains fell without breeze. Every evidence was positive of the proximity of
                        land. But after leagues and leagues of sailing, those distant shores fled
                        before them and finally melted into the deep.
                    Then one night Colon was seen suddenly to straighten up over the binnacle
                        light and turn with a triumphant movement into his quarters.
                    When his door had closed upon him, two of the crew stole to the compass, and
                        there, under the smoky ray of the lamp, they saw that the needle had dropped
                        away from the north!
                    That was a glorious triumph for Cristobal Colon to experience alone. The
                        quivering declination of the needle from the pole had settled the question
                        of the ages, and in that solitary hour the great Genoese assumed the first
                        of his glory, adequate to have crowned  him
                        for all time had nothing else come of his labors. He had proven that the
                        world was round!
                    The crews of the admiral were recruited from material to be had in and about
                        Palos, or such as offered itself for adventure's sake. They were not all
                        sailors; neither were all the sailors good seamen. But they were rather
                        above the average intelligence and average social plane for seafaring men.
                        Had he employed a crew of skilled Mediterranean sailors he would have had
                        men who possessed the executive ability to mutiny. He would have been thrown
                        overboard when the needle trembled away from the pole and the discovery of
                        the new world would have been left to some heir of all the thought of
                        Cristobal Colon, at some date not to be surmised.
                    Colon's explanation of this phenomenon was of a necessity too abstruse,
                        simple as he tried to make it, for the uncomprehending minds of the seamen
                        to grasp. The first signs of the unrest which had been chafing under the
                        surface came to light.
                    They began to add the days that they had sailed and to calculate the
                        distance, and before that monumental sum of leagues they stood appalled.
                    Throughout the silence of all these nights, Beltran Ponce de Leon had hours
                        of thought. The lengthening journey, each league to be doubled before he
                        could return to Antonia, added a pang to his distress for her anguish. With
                        her nature so capable of suffering, and an imagination so strong, she would
                        be all these days following him through the secret prison or the torture
                        chamber and to the stake hourly; living and dying with him though watching
                        ever for his sail with hopeless hope.
                    The mediaeval caravel travelled with scant light by night. Over the binnacle
                        a lamp burned, a small, moving, smoky spark in the vast waste of weltering
                        blue darkness. There was little call for seamanship. God's own hand smoothed
                        the outward path of Cristobal Colon. The watchmen nodding at bow and stern,
                        the  sailor at the tiller, and the master or
                        his mate, were sufficient for the greater part of the time. But always, at
                        some hour in the night, a tall figure, flying a cloak in the sea-wind,
                        sweeping the horizon with an infallible eye, would appear on the deck of
                        this little venturer into the vast; the prophet watching for the fulfilment;
                        a Moses unaware that he was called to lead to a new Canaan.
                    Beltran, dusky and inconspicuous, did not believe that Colon remembered that
                        he had come aboard the Santa Maria.
                    But one night after the declination of the needle had settled an alarm upon
                        the crew, Beltran was brought back from Tangier and its house overlooking
                        the sea by a touch on his shoulder. He looked up startled into the
                        night-shadowed face of the Genoese.
                    "Was it Calcena's search for the boy at the ruins of the tower that brought
                        you to this?" he asked.
                    "It was that, señor."
                    "You know, of course, that I know who the lad was?" Colon queried.
                    "How did you learn?"
                    "I had seen her too often about the court not to know her under any
                        disguise."
                    After a silence Colon spoke again.
                    "Does she know of your trouble?"
                    "I fear she does, señor."
                    "But not of your escape. Is she to wed with the Conde de Lerin?"
                    "She is wedded to me. If I fall into mine enemy's hands I shall have both the
                        crown and the Inquisition to satisfy," Beltran explained.
                    Colon lifted his shoulders.
                    "Ay, that is the madness of youth in love! And at that, are you not separated
                        from her forever?"
                    "Only until the end of this voyage, please God!" said Beltran. "But I do not
                        rest contented under your calling my doing the madness of youth in
                        love."
                    
                    "Nay, you are right," said Colon musing. "It is not always youth that is mad
                        in its love! I, of all men, should acquit youth of that!"
                    Through Beltran's startled mind flashed the vision of the little
                        golden-haired boy; a materialization of the human side of this superhuman
                        man.
                    "You have left anguish behind you," the sailor continued, "that the love and
                        loss of you inflict. You might have worked a worse ill of it, in ignorance
                        and anger—and have come to repent of it too late!"
                    "Friend, we shall lay mine undoing to my love, if it please you, but I should
                        have come to it soon or late by one cause or another as sure as my fame ran
                        wild."
                    "But your labor was peaceable, your gifts safe enough," Colon objected.
                    "You mean to say, señor, that I am come to this because I erred in the law. I
                        did. I ravelled the King's nice fabric of statecraft and blocked Calcena at
                        every turn. But tell me why my friends, the commoner, the paisano, and the
                        citizen, rejected me? I did not fail them, nor cheat them of victims, nor
                        carry away their wards. Why do the people turn upon their idols?"
                    "The idol first falls out of favor with the great," said Colon.
                    "That is not the cause but the beginning of the process. The commoner hath no
                        grudge against his favorite because the King hates him. Is it because men
                        swing so far in one direction that they must needs swing back? Is it because
                        men are monkeys without fixed opinions? Is it because fame is such a shallow
                        lamp that it cannot burn long? Our Lord fell out of favor with the multitude
                        and came to crucifixion for it. Is no man to come unto Jerusalem over a
                        palm-strewn path and depart therefrom except by Calvary?"
                    Honor, competence, and position had been part of Colon's ambition. While the
                        engineer talked, the two followed their thoughts to the same conclusion.
                    "Señor," said Beltran, laying his hand on the sailor's  arm, "in that hour when you deliver India unto the Queen you
                        will become the greatest man in the world; you shall taste such glory as was
                        never put to the lips of living creature!"
                    "Don Beltran, a man should avoid it," Colon said quickly.
                    "Señor Colon, it cannot be done. It is written. You will not avoid it. Much
                        as you will fear it, as I feared it, it is too sweet. Next to love it is the
                        most irresistible thing in the world."
                    He laughed without bitterness and Colon said with conviction:
                    "Everything good is costly. I doubt much if I have paid for that which I am
                        to do."
                    "Ay, I have purchased my free soul and paid for it with my best coin," said
                        Beltran. "Santangel hath bought his salvation from hypocrisy, and he will
                        pay for it with his martyrdom."
                    "Go further," said Colon. "I accept the saying. Colon hath been called to
                        effect one of Time's great changes, and he will pay!"
                    "Would you be aught else than that which you are for a hundred years of any
                        favor?" Beltran asked.
                    "No! I had rather be Cristobal Colon than to be pope!"
                    After a little silence, Beltran said: "I presume overmuch to offer preachment
                        to such a man as you. Yet he who hath come through experience hath taken
                        unto himself the fruit of years if not the count of them. Time is a
                        marvellous adjuster of things. When the advance of men's minds comes abreast
                        with the achievements of the great, the great come then into their real
                        glory. We still have a hope for the future who are driven to admit that the
                        present voice of the people is not a dependable standard."
                    Again he laughed shortly.
                    "That was a good God who put conceit into the soul of man; how it tempereth
                        the wind to the shorn lamb!" he added.
                    
                    "Nay," he went on again in another tone, "you will look upon me as a bird of
                        ill omen. But reflect that I have yielded you India in my surmises, and
                        that—by the mass!—should offset to you anything that may
                        follow upon its heels."
                    "It will!" said Colon resolutely. "And if I can come through my Calvary with
                        your grace, methinks I have gained something quite as glorious as
                        India!"
                    But pent within that rude caravel was the opinion of men upon which was to
                        hang the outcome of that expedition. Every cosmographer, navigator,
                        historian, and romancer had filled the mid-Atlantic with islands. All
                        indications that had been regarded as infallible for a landfall were present
                        many times in the journey across the water. The Pinzons, masters of the
                        other two vessels never failed to urge a beat-about cruise in search of
                        these lands. But Colon steadily resisted them, declaring it a waste of time
                        and held true as an arrow flies, as a hound follows a scent, straight along
                        the gilded path to the sunset.
                    It was this seeming foolhardy persistence against evidence and prudence,
                        together with the discovery that the compass was variable, that congealed
                        the misty uneasiness of the crews into positive terror.
                    There was no priest with the expedition. Colon was the court of last appeal;
                        the comforter and spiritual and material solace for his men, and when he
                        failed of assurance they had none upon whom to rely.
                    At a point where the birds came in from the south-west or flew that way, he
                        turned his prows in that direction and sped with fresh energy into a region
                        unlike any that they had traversed.
                    It was a smooth, sultry sea, with flying fish and sudden dawns and sudden
                        sunsets. Broad airs of unearthly fragrance stole across their tarry decks.
                        Snow-white birds with a great spread of wing hung over them tirelessly. By
                        day the waves were afloat with overgrown canes and colored grasses and
                        brambles with berries and faded reeds. The shark, black foot-pad of the  warm seas, dogged their keel tracks always.
                        By night they passed over shoals of phosphorescent light. And over all, at
                        times, soft, inky-black clouds full of glorious lightning and utterly
                        windless made the waters re-echo with appalling thunder night and day.
                    The needle showed west of north at night and due north at dawn. The sailors
                        were convinced that they were sailing truly upon the under side of the
                        world.
                    Throughout these days Colon used every means to pacify his men, fending off
                        complaints by offering bounties and putting off a flat demand for a return
                        by a show of confidence that would have been infectious among sailors who
                        were not unnerved by the lassitude of the climate and prolonged
                        inactivity.
                    The food was growing bad; if not sickness, at least an inertia was breaking
                        out among the crew. Day by day their flagging hopes had to be spurred on by
                        inducements, until at last these fell upon unresponding spirits.
                    One day at noon, after Colon had steered southwest for twenty-four hours in
                        pursuit of the birds, three men approached the admiral and, removing their
                        caps, or kerchiefs, as they wore them, asked respectfully to be heard.
                    They said that they were men with families dependent upon them for support;
                        that they had come upon the voyage by impressment; that there was neither
                        gain nor glory to be had for them out of the expedition; that their hearts
                        misgave them, seeing that they had sailed so fast for so long; that they
                        were lost in their minds and knew not where they were; that nothing to which
                        they had pinned their faith stood by them now; that the needle, the north
                        star, the wind, and the weather were no longer to be found in their old
                        habit; that the food was spoiling; that the story was the same every
                        day—signs of land, and no land; and they had come to ask their
                        commander, the admiral, to put about and return to Spain.
                    Whoever has led the faint of heart out of the old  through the unknown into the new has heard the same cry. It is
                        the ball and chain about the ankle of progress since the beginning of time;
                        the cry of the sufficiently satisfied; the cry of them that fear martyrdom
                        which is the price of change.
                    "Friends," said the Genoese, "and I call you friends, for whoso sails with me
                        on the Queen's mission in behalf of Jesus Christ into the unknown is more to
                        me than shipmate! If you return to Spain now, you are sure to return
                        empty-handed, defeated, ridiculed, discredited. If you go with me, you
                        chance death indeed. But you may meet the same death between Saltes and
                        Huelva with a rough bay and a leaky boat. But if you go forward with me and
                        escape death, you have made for yourselves never-to-be-forgotten names,
                        fortune, fame, and such experience as no other seafaring men in mine or your
                        knowledge have ever had. All the mariners on the face of the water will
                        close their lips in your presence until you have spoken. There is a bounty
                        for all of you; you are all Colon's crew and as much to be magnified by the
                        achievement among your fellows as he. Think how a little time hence you will
                        be ashamed of yourselves for your faint-heartedness! We are near unto India;
                        not a single thing has come to pass but the expected. I am not in the least
                        uneasy. And you are no cowards! You are tired men! I am tired! Our ships are
                        worn. But you be of the salt of the earth; of the conquering realm of Spain!
                        You will not flag in the face of a tender wind and a smiling sea! Be assured
                        that your commander is not afraid! We shall go on!"
                    The whole of the crew either clustered about the admiral or, halting at their
                        labor to listen, heard this speech. Kindly, paternal, yet unalterably
                        resolved, it discouraged for all time an appeal to the admiral. The sailors
                        scattered with averted faces.
                    Beltran, trying to sleep in the noisome hold, heard this conversation at the
                        side of the open hatch and saw  the three men
                        come below. One of two Palos men who were stirring tar at the foot of the
                        ladder straightened his bent back and looked into the faces of his mates.
                        They shook their heads and Beltran saw him clinch his hand.
                    When the engineer wakened near sunset he saw that a knot of sailors had
                        clustered in the shadows of the forehold. The centre of that cluster was a
                        man with a benched ankle where a leg-iron had ridden for years. He was a
                        galley-bird with a galley-bird's propensities, and Beltran knew that if ever
                        the crew came to mutiny, the trouble would concentrate about this man.
                    Up until that hour, the discontent among the men had been without a definite
                        leader. The rougher sailors were hardened and piratical and less given to
                        fear of matters so simple as a straightaway sail into the west with a smooth
                        sea. The milder men were homesick and full of doubt in the unknown. But they
                        were good men and stood in fear of the inveterate salts. When the bad men
                        grumbled the good ones stood off; when the good ones complained they went
                        aside among each other to do it. But the man with the benched ankle had two
                        qualities, that of leadership and lawlessness. The bad would follow him; the
                        good needs must or answer for it.
                    If there had been previous organizing, Beltran had not seen it. Whatever the
                        history of the movement toward revolt, Colon should be apprised of it.
                    But it seemed that Colon was not to be counselled in quiet. Never did a pair
                        of useless gentles so dog the steps of a man as near to death as he was to
                        greatness. The sun had set; the evening religious service was held, and the
                        night with its untold opportunity for dire work shut down suddenly over the
                        ship. Beltran cast a look over the deck, possessed with that curious quiet
                        among men in a state of expectancy, and resolved to speak, Pedro
                        notwithstanding.
                    He rapped at Colon's cabin door, and when the cabin  boy answered, asked for the admiral. Wi---,
                        the two gentles, sitting by the stern window, turned their heads at the
                        sound of his voice. The grandee could hide everything but the purity of his
                        enunciation. Colon rose hastily from his journal and, stepping out upon
                        deck, closed the door after him.
                    "Señor," the knight asked, "is there any hope that we are near to the end of
                        this journey?"
                    "There passed to-day," the Genoese answered, "a branch of freshly blooming
                        roses. It was not twenty-four hours torn from the parent bramble."
                    "Señor, if we pass this night in safety, pray be prepared for to-morrow. The
                        men are more than restless; they are resolved."
                    "To-morrow," said Colon, "will bring me no harm. No man ever looked upon a
                        to-morrow with such goodwill!"
                    Beltran went back to his mates, the Galway man and the Englishman.
                    "Dogroses," said the Irishman, "may have a quieting influence. But I'll pin
                        my faith to a cutlass!"
                    "Don Beltran," said Arthur Law without other comment, "if it agrees with your
                        knightly honor, do you mind keeping the admiral's door while me and my mate
                        tend the hatch?"
                    But by ten o'clock the sea began to rise, as only the sea among the Antilles
                        can rise about or after the equinox. For the first time on the voyage at the
                        mercy of a ferine ocean, the desire to mutiny was lost in the unanimous
                        determination to keep afloat as long as they might, if only to see one more
                        dawn before the unknown swallowed them.
                    "It's a day of grace," said the Irishman, when the wind of the night fell low
                        and the clouds rolled away and let in a sweet and radiant dawn. "Last
                        night's interference was well-timed."
                    But the float of the night's gale lay fresh on the waves that morning.
                        Somewhere within the knowledge  of the
                            h---n, huge seas lunging into lagoons and over
                        marshes grown rank with tropical verdure between storms, had pitched green
                        wreckage far and wide over the ocean. To Colon's understanding gaze, the
                        meaning of this was writ large. It had a marvellous effect on the Genoese.
                        The mien of the Roman, the conqueror at any cost, the Cœsar of the
                        age of discovery, was blotted out of his countenance. Over it spread a charm
                        and sweetness that bewildered the disaffected crew of the Santa
                            Maria.
                    He ordered all hands on deck and showed them the omen on the waves.
                        Stretching his long arm to the southwest, he said:
                    "It is there! Get each of you to your posts; keep the stern forecastle well!
                        Let every man be his own lookout to-day. Ten thousand maravedis for life to
                        the man that sees it first!"
                    They clambered into the rigging and lined the bulwarks from stem to stern,
                        stood on the cabin roof and clung to the wayward tiller, for the sea was
                        still a-plunge, with their eyes upon the horizon rather than on the ship's
                        compass.
                    But the Irishman coming below, where Beltran was preparing for his daylight
                        sleep, laid his finger on the knight's chest.
                    "This is mettlesome talk," said he, "but if this dies out without a landfall,
                        look alive, sir!"
                    And that day was the IIth of October.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXI
                    THE TWELFTH OF OCTOBER
                    ALL day the crew scanned the ridged horizon. Grudgingly
                        they responded to each call to duty; cheerfully resigned their chances to
                        break their fast. The gale that had called for a bonnet on the mainsail and
                        some energetic seamanship at times throughout the morning and the
                        mid-afternoon abated as the sunset approached. The sea lowered and the green
                        drift grew thinner and less frequent. Colon moved among his men with
                        confidence in every movement, ignoring their lowering spirits in his talk,
                        but seeking to enliven their interest by offering additional reward.
                    At sunset there would ensue a twilight all too short. The west, brilliant
                        with glowing clouds and tender blue, was divided unbroken between sea and
                        sky. Behind, the east was already darkling. North and south the horizon was
                        vacant and cold. One by one the crew cast a final look at the departing
                        daylight and withdrew from the rail, came down from the rigging, dropped off
                        the forecastle. Several whose faces frankly showed apprehension went
                        immediately below. Those who remained above watched the Genoese, as he kept
                        his place, scanning the darkening sea world with a clear brow and an
                        expectant face. They were uncertain about his attitude. The skeptical
                        believed his confidence a skilful pose; the troubled ones were not sure.
                    But the man with the benched ankle wore a smile on his face that one by one
                        the disaffected crew noted and shaped their conclusions.
                    Then Beltran went below and drew from its hiding-place, the long, slender,
                        bird-spit sword.
                    
                    It was ---k when he came above.
                    He stopped Colon and warned him that his men were restless. But Colon laid
                        his hand on the young man's shoulder.
                    "How many loyal men are there?" he asked. "Less than a dozen," Beltran
                        declared.
                    "I shipped seventy on the Santa Maria," said Colon.
                    "If my men mutiny it is God's will that I shall fail. And since I know that I
                        am chosen for this labor, I do not fear my men. Share my confidence, Don
                        Beltran. It is a great strength."
                    So saying, he took his hand from the young man's shoulder and went on to his
                        quarters.
                    Beltran, standing a moment in indecision and perplexity, counted his allies.
                        These were the master, the Irishman, the Englishman, and a possible three
                        from the distressed men who had gone below. Seven men could afford no more
                        than seven victims for a massacre. The two gentles had to be enlisted.
                    It was evident that Colon would make no movement toward organizing a defense.
                        None of the other sailors could be induced to approach the King's
                        inspectors, and Beltran with trepidation began to wonder if the perilous
                        duty of speaking to the courtiers was to be his.
                    But the master, De Cosa, who was a silent, dour man, had been in his own way
                        watching the temper of the crew and informing himself of their debates. He
                        knew without more than casual scrutiny who were like to be loyal. In the
                        darkness, he came upon Beltran without a sound and laid a hand on his
                        shoulder.
                    Beltran whirled and clapped his hand to his bird-spit, drew off a step on
                        seeing the captain and asked his pardon.
                    "So you are armed," said the master shortly, "I ask no more. Let's see if you
                        gentles are as good man to man in a fight afloat, as you are ashore with all
                        o' God's dry land to run on !"
                    "You, then, sir, are expecting trouble?" Beltran asked.
                    
                    "I have been ever since the crown's impressment was at work for crews! By my
                        count there are nine of us to be relied on. That leaves sixty-one to do the
                        execution. It's the plan to get into Colon's quarters and fight by the doors
                        and the skylight."
                    He rapidly named the nine, and asked if there were more than that to be
                        trusted.
                    Beltran shook his head.
                    "Ah, well!" said De Cosa with a sigh, as if he wished the end of the matter
                        had come and well over with. "Do you happen about the admiral's door after
                        the Salve. If we can win in, what next follows will depend on the favor of
                        God! I have no doubts about what will happen if we don't!"
                    When the master had passed, Beltran saw then that the crew had assembled for
                        the service. Colon, admiral and pastor for his crew, came out upon deck and
                        conducted the evening prayer before the Stella Maris, visible through the
                        open door of his cabin. When he had retired to the forecastle, the seamen
                        did not scatter as was their habit. It was evident that something was yet to
                        happen before the expected outbreak was to occur.
                    It was while Beltran stood with his side that was armed turned against the
                        bulwarks for concealment that Pedro Gutierrez, similarly stationed, moved up
                        to the engineer.
                    "Were you in the campo before Granada?" the courtier demanded.
                    Beltran assented briefly. "In what capacity?" "Fighting man."
                    "I could not have known you as a fighting man, and your voice is as familiar
                        to me as mine own," Pedro objected. "What are you called?"
                    Beltran gave the first name that sprang to his lips and crossed himself
                        furtively as he said it: "Juan Garcia."
                    
                    "Perhaps," said young Pedro dryly. "Well, by the terms of her Majesty's
                        agreement, we may look for a motley lot to go with this expedition. But live
                        up to your part. What makes a common seaman with such a weapon as this?"
                    Beltran, avoiding Pedro's stare, had turned his side from the bulwarks and
                        before he could interfere, the courtier had whipped the slender bird-spit
                        sword from its scabbard. For a moment there was silence. The delicate blade
                        was too well known in the campo not to betray its owner.
                    Then Pedro reversed it and handed it guard first, with a kind of elegant
                        courtesy in the act, to Beltran.
                    "Don Beltran, you were well hid. Forgive my forwardness. But you know my duty
                        to the crown and to the church."
                    "Man," said Beltran grimly, "you are too useless and dangerous to be
                        permitted to do damage to better and more useful men. Look to yourself
                        hereafter."
                    He sheathed his sword and moved in obedience to the master's order toward the
                        door of Colon's cabin.
                    A cluster was already hanging there, but one glance showed that they were the
                        malcontents. The handful of loyal men who had assembled were surrounded.
                    In Colon's cabin there was a light, and by the faint lustre that preceded the
                        flying Santa Maria, it was known that the window was open.
                        Presently that light was put out. The silent sailors heard the quick steps
                        of the admiral as he moved from some spot toward the lamp.
                    The next instant the door was thrown open and Colon, looking over the heads,
                        called to Pedro Gutierrez, who went in and the door was closed behind him.
                        In another moment Pedro threw open the door and, motioning hastily and with
                        excitement, summoned Roderigo de Segovia.
                    This was no clever way to get the loyal men within, thought Beltran, for the
                        mutinous ones were stirring.
                    
                    The man with the benched ankle came over to Beltran who had kept in the
                        shadows.
                    "What make you, wooden-head?" the sailor said. "Mince for these masterful
                        tars, or will you feed the sharks, hereabout, whole and unseasoned?"
                    But Colon's door flew back upon its hinges and the Genoese stepped out upon
                        deck.
                    "Look!" he exclaimed. "To the southwest! See if mine eyes deceive me!"
                    Not a sailor moved from his post, not even the man from before Beltran, but
                        they turned their heads in the direction that the admiral had pointed.
                    Thick, blue night, blank as it had been for weeks covered all the distance.
                        Groaning under her toil, the Santa Maria staggered on
                        through wind and wave and darkness.
                    Then to every eye a point of light appeared slowly, dimmed and vanished like
                        a firefly in the remote south.
                    Several sailors shouted at once.
                    But the man with the benched ankle moved away from Beltran, growling: "Go to,
                        you fools! 'Tis the light on the Pinta!" "The Pinta's to port! The Niña's astern!" they howled
                        him down.
                    At that moment to their left, a red splatter of fire broke into the darkness,
                        and the boom of the Pinta's cannon sounded hollow over the
                        waves.
                    For a moment on the Santa Maria there was tense silence.
                        Then De Cosa, the pious master, standing in the waist of the vessel, began
                        to repeat in a tremendous voice: "Gloria in excelsis Deo, in terrâ pax
                        hominibus bonae voluntatis!"
                    Mutinous men and loyal ones sank to their knees.
                    "Laudamus te, benedicimus te, adoramus te, glorificamus te, gratias agimus
                        tibi propter magnam gloriam tuam, Domine Deus, Rex cœlestis, Deus
                        Pater omnipotens."
                    
                    But instanter, the Gloria done, the rigging was acrawl with sailors. Over the
                        swinging deck they hung, at sixty feet the highest, clinging for life and
                        crowding each other heedlessly, while the Santa Maria
                        pitched and rolled on the southern waters that are long forgetting their
                        rage.
                    The two men at the bucking tiller steered with their eyes bulging in their
                        determination to hold the course. Colon had located the light at a nice
                        point on the horizon, and the fellows shouldered the responsibility of
                        raising land for the expedition.
                    They heard, far astern, the crew of the Niña begin to
                        cheer, and they knew that the men of the Maid had seen the
                        light, now hidden to the Pinta and the Santa
                            Maria.
                    
                    Midnight passed over them. Birds of short flight swooped like spirits down
                        and by the binnacle light, and the Santa Maria followed
                        them swiftly.
                    Some time about two o'clock, ahead of them, where the Pinta's light bowed and swayed, they heard a high, faint, eerie
                        cry, and from under it rose prolonged cheering.
                    A deeper quiet fell on the Santa Maria. Then a cabin-boy,
                        clinging perilously to the yard-arms of the foremast, began to make
                        inarticulate sounds, as if excitement had cut off his speech. While the crew
                        waited with bated breath to hear the word, a level line, blacker than the
                        night that enshrouded it, rose slowly from the sea. It was distinguished
                        from the moving face of the waters by a feathery crown of sable palms.
                    Cipango? India?
                    But not a tower cut the straight horizon, not a wall erected a sharp angle on
                        the night; not even a point of light laid down a pencil of radiance upon the
                        ocean, between the Santa Maria and the New World.
                    Silence and darkness lay heavy upon that low silhouette upon the
                        sky-line.
                    But the morning was to come!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXII
                    TWELVE WEEKS
                    SOME time later Colon went to his quarters and set down in
                        his journal the single sentence that announced the greatest event after
                        Calvary.
                    "At two hours after midnight the land appeared, from which they were about
                        two leagues distant."
                    He was alone. Without his closed door, the seamen were lowering sails. The
                        master hung about the tiller, where the redoubtable two struggled with the
                        sea, standing off and on, in the determined resolve to hold the Santa Maria in sight of the black cameo against the southern sky.
                        Clinging to the gunwale the King's inspectors, robbed of all desire for
                        sleep, shouted their conversation to each other over the whoop of the wind.
                        The bare feet of the running sailors slapped and spattered on the wet deck;
                        and out of the lull between the sweep of the wind and the moil of the sea
                        came once or twice the hoarse voice of Martin Pinzon on the Pinta, bawling
                        orders that even the remote but equally excited Niña could
                        have heard.
                    In the quiet of his cabin, Colon set down a period and raised his pen to
                        write further, "They lowered all the sails and remained with the cross-jack
                        sail," when a pleasant voice at his elbow interrupted him. He glanced up to
                        see Beltran Ponce de Leon standing at his side.
                    "His excellency, the admiral," said the young man smiling, "will pardon the
                        intrusion of one who would be first to wish him joy and to add further a
                        necessary security to the fame which hath been so stoutly earned this night.
                        Our inflexible Pedro hath recognised me and 
                        will report my presence with the expedition at the first opportunity. By
                        your distinguished leave I will take that silk doublet that you promised to
                        the sailor on the Pinta who first discovered
                        land—and stay there."
                    Colon, who had risen, looked fixedly at the engineer.
                    "In such a sea as this?" he said.
                    "'As betwixt the devil and the deep sea,' the old women say," the engineer
                        laughed.
                    "But you have no choice," Colon interrupted.
                    "To the contrary, I have," Beltran assured him. "Your Irish watchman is a
                        good seaman and as reckless as the occasion requires. His English gossip
                        will tend our getting off without observation. It will be the part of the
                            Pinta to get me aboard whole-skinned, and the
                        Englishman will see his mate safe on the Santa Maria
                        again. Very simple and very secret. There is no other way."
                    Colon turned promptly to a chest and drew forth a tunic of green sarcenet and
                        put it into Beltran's hands.
                    "Go in God's name," he said. "Heaven keep you! And if ill fortune pursues
                        your flight, remember Colon owes you a debt that he can never wholly
                        repay."
                    He opened his arms and took Beltran to his heart, and then sat down to finish
                        the sentence—"which is the great sail without bonnets."
                    It was with utter amazement and some trepidation that Martin Pinzon responded
                        to a hail under his bows in the gray of the dawn. For the moment he was
                        moved to believe that the boat below him had come out from the new land. But
                        he recognized the dory of the Santa Maria and manfully set
                        about the business of taking aboard the messenger from the flag-ship.
                    This accomplished, the solitary sailor left in the boat cast off and put back
                        to the Santa Maria without the least show of hesitancy.
                        And so, for all time, Beltran and his gallant Irish confederate parted.
                    "Either," said Martin Pinzon, "the Santa Maria is manned by
                        fools or daredevils! But whatever I think, 
                        Colon is put to it to keep his word, if he must drown a tar or two to do
                        it!"
                    The sunrise services on the Pinta were followed by the
                        presentation of Colon's gift to the excited and sheepish Roderigo de Triana
                        who had first sighted land, but the incident did not take root in the minds
                        of the crew.
                    Before them was a low island with a golden beach, and an inland toss of
                        emerald foliage. Rude canoes lay on the sand well up out of reach of the
                        surf curling snow-white all along the front of the isle. Back in the green
                        tangle were straw-roofed huts and a single dun spiral of smoke rose into the
                        air.
                    From the Pinta Beltran saw the stately ceremony that sealed
                        to Spain the first soil of the New World.
                    He saw the Santa Maria's long-boat grounded, with its
                        cannon hauled up into a commanding position, saw the Niña's little dory with the other Pinzon arrive.
                    The admiral, dressed all in scarlet, with his thick white hair bared to the
                        sun, his height and breadth magnified by the short Pinzons, his skin fairer
                        than that of any of his companions, appeared indeed a fit figure for the
                        strong angel of the Apocalypse.
                    With them advanced a guard of picked sailors in armor. Over them floated the
                        standard of Spain, and the banners of the green cross.
                    Well up the sand, the procession halted and Colon planted his standard and
                        proceeded through his own process of investiture in the name of his
                        sovereigns. And when the soil had been possessed and the prayer said, naked
                        bronze people crept out of the green riot of the tropical background and
                        prostrated themselves at the feet of the men who had brought them a King, a
                        cannon, and a creed.
                    "Is this all?" Beltran asked himself. "Can this be all! After eighteen years
                        of effort and the expense of crown money and the devotion of human lives, is
                        the fruit to be a flat sand-bar in a vast ocean and a people too poor to
                        cover their nakedness?"
                    
                    Then he thought of Santangel and himself, and in the dire sinking of spirits
                        that he suffered he realized how tenaciously his dream had fastened itself
                        upon him, until its fulfilment was more than a desire or a hope—it
                        was a necessity.
                    It was an anxious day he spent waiting developments to follow upon Pedro's
                        report to Colon. Only a part of the crew of each vessel was allowed to set
                        foot on the soil and Beltran had no difficulty in enforcing his desire to
                        remain aboard the Pinta that morning. But when Martin
                        Pinzon returned with his party at nightfall, he briefly informed Beltran
                        that Colon had exchanged a hand with him, and that the sailor from the Santa Maria was to remain with the crew of the Pinta.
                    He rightly guessed that Pedro had informed the admiral of the presence of a
                        fugitive from the Inquisition with the expedition, and surmised that the
                        fruitlessness of the search had either stamped Pedro's story as an error or
                        admitted the possibility of Beltran's having jumped overboard.
                    Followed then three days of waiting on the movement to prove the statement of
                        the natives that there were other lands thereabout, and on the 15th the
                        little fleet stood off for further explorations.
                    Then ensued weeks and weeks of happy cruising among beautiful isles, circled
                        with white foam and sapphire seas; level as beaches at first, but at last
                        marked with amethyst hills, that stood belt-deep in tropical forests alive
                        with birds brilliant as rainbows; and emerald plains, embroidered with
                        flowers and over-poweringly sweet with perfume. Increasingly larger, richer,
                        more populous, more splendid, more mysteriously eloquent of greater,
                        grander, richer lands farther on, each new island added zest to the chase,
                        satiety to the senses, and self-interest to the expedition.
                    Between men arose that friction which arises always through glutted
                        plenty—the forgetting of ties; surrender of allegiance; abandonment
                        to the vices of personal greed and ambition.
                    
                    Colon, with the true method of the scientist and explorer, was progressing
                        too deliberately through the Antilles, charting, exploring, taking specimens
                        of man and plant, forming friendships and blazing a smooth way for
                        expeditions to follow. Under his iron rule there was no chance to liberate
                        the primal passions for women and gold. Each landing-place brought them
                        nearer to the treasure, and, by the signs, it was to be possessed in due
                        order and law for the crown. There was to be no personal gain for those who
                        had helped the Genoese to become the admiral of the ocean sea and governor
                        of all the Indies.
                    And so five weeks after the fleet had sighted the first soil of the New
                        World, Martin Alonzo Pinzon crowded on all the Pinta's
                        sails, set her fast keel upon a course of her own, and abandoned the
                        expedition.
                    It was the expected outcome of such an enterprise in such a time. Martin
                        Alonzo Pinzon was not to be held up for criticism more than any other man
                        who was a conquistador. He was as hardy and able a mariner as ever ventured
                        into an uncharted sea, and the autocratic rule of another mariner over him,
                        and the assignment of all the credit and gain of the expedition to one who
                        had ventured materially no more than the Pinzons, naturally aroused
                        antagonism and revolt in the sturdy brothers.
                    Once away from the rest of the crews, Beltran had his first opportunity
                        safely to set foot upon the soil of the islands. Then he saw the behavior of
                        the Spaniards apart from the kindly rule of Colon. He saw the forecast of
                        violence, bloodshed, rapine, and loot; and he saw in the background of the
                        passive and childlike nature of the Indians the fugitive glitter of the
                        ferocious, revengeful savage.
                    "All the old ambition. Nothing new! Simply an extension of the evils of the
                        world!" Santangel had said in reply to Beltran's picture of a state that
                        might be.
                    If these islands, so sweet and fair, so naked to the assaults of adventurers,
                        were all, how could they sustain  a nation of
                        refugees from the oppression of power! Verily there was no room on the earth
                        for the victim of man's harshness. Treasure beaches to be looted and sailed
                        away from—simply an extension of the field for prey!
                    A sort of reaction against the paradisiacal dream through which he had sailed
                        for twelve weeks overtook him. Presently the expedition must return to
                        Spain, the land of his lost favor, the home from which he must forever live
                        an exile. He was to return with ocular proof that the hope he had given
                        Santangel, and had adopted for himself, was vain.
                    There was no society on the Pinta to give him relief. They
                        were incipient buccaneers, whose suspicions he did well not to arouse. The
                        master once asked him if the whole crew of the Santa Maria were broken
                        gentlemen, and added, without waiting for a reply, that it were well that
                        the outward journey had been smooth.
                    "We will see them get to port through a winter, will we?" he concluded.
                    But when at last they rounded the noble headland of Monte Cristi on their way
                        to a stream fabled as pouring a golden flood into the sea, they beheld
                        approaching the little insignificant Niña. The big awkward
                            Santa Maria was nowhere to be seen.
                    Uncertain weather had set in and it was a day or two before the ships' crews
                        could communicate. Then Beltran learned that an inexperienced hand at the
                        tiller of the flag-ship had run her aground, that the vessel had been broken
                        up and a fort built of her timbers in which to shelter the Santa Maria's crew, which had been left behind as a colony.
                    A colony! With the reappearance of Colon reappeared the old hope in Beltran.
                        Permanent population, an abiding-place, not a treasure-trove to be looted
                        and deserted when despoiled!
                    He found that Colon had left behind him Pedro Gutierrez, the inflexible
                        abider by the law, to exert his  best
                        influence as lieutenant-governor over natives who had never known any but
                        nature's law.
                    Beltran thought of the fair young courtier with his head full of order
                        without deviation; of the adventuring Englishman and the reckless Irishman;
                        of the buccaneering instincts of the man with the benched ankle; of the
                        Spanish dissoluteness of nature and the gold-madness of them all, and was
                        afraid.
                    Roderigo de Segovia was still with Colon, but he was not expected to be
                        looking for a reappearance of Beltran Ponce de Leon. Colon took the young
                        knight aboard the Niña and questioned him closely as to
                        the animus of Pinzon. Then again flared up the Colon of the unfortunate
                        days—exacting, distrustful, and irritable.
                    "It is my fate!" he declared. "I shall pay. If I had enemies in my
                        feebleness, shall I not have enemies in my strength? God help us! It is
                        terrible to become great!"
                    "Is it India ? " Beltran asked.
                    "My son, there are no rich cities. Whatever is great and rich is farther
                        on."
                    "Are, then, these islands so far from the mainland that they do not derive
                        glory from the real India?"
                    "Cavaliere, I have found less among these isles than I was expecting to find.
                        If this is India, where are her cities? Cities lie on the sea; there are
                        none here. Why are her people naked savages without even a sailing ship or a
                        finished weapon among them? Why is there so little gold and gems if this is
                        India? And if this be not India, what is it? A cluster of detached islands
                        in mid-ocean? It is not possible! If the mainland near to this is Asia,
                        where are the infallible marks of the great civilization near? If the
                        mainland that is near to this is not Asia—"
                    He came quite near to Beltran and cast a look around as if afraid he might be
                        overheard.
                    "—then what is it? Don Beltran, is this a bigger world than I
                        dreamed? Don Beltran, lies there a tremendous 
                        continent here, as the Norsemen said, in the darkness that I have not yet
                            pierced?"*
                        
                            *
                            See Las Casas, "Narrative of Third Voyage." "I am of the belief that
                                this is continental land, most vast, and which has not been known up
                                to this time." In view of this plain statement, reiterated more than
                                once in the writings of Columbus, one wonders why histories soberly
                                assure school-children that Columbus to the day of his death never
                                suspected that he had brought to light a new continent.
                        
                    
                    Beltran's dream of another world was erecting its dim outlines in the brain
                        of the great Genoese. With kindling eyes and racing heart, the young knight
                        rose to his feet and the two gazed intensely at each other.
                    "An unknown, savage New World!" the Genoese breathed.
                    "O thou God's man!" Beltran cried with a gust of yearning and hope. "Find it!
                        Come again and again and find it! Give us freedom!"
                    Colon studied this wistful cry and shook his head. He could not bring into
                        his visions the image of a better world that was not supernatural.
                    Then the rage of the winter on the Atlantic overtook them in mid-ocean.
                    Surely the God of the betterment of men abode near those feeble vessels
                        throughout the voyage back to Spain. Little crazy tubs, meagrely equipped,
                        poorly ballasted; victims of the winds and waves, they had the single
                        advantage of Colon's consummate seaman-ship and the especial favor of
                        Almighty God.
                    For days the harried caravels sped before the hurricanes, out of all
                        reckoning, or pitched like drift over mountainous seas. Colon prepared a
                        concise narrative of his voyages and discoveries and consigned it in secure
                        wrappings to the sea, believing that he would never reach Europe alive. For
                        a second time, the Pinta broke away from her consort and
                        vanished, under full sail, upon her own course and left the feeble Niña to work out a truce with the Atlantic alone.
                    Sick from exposure and insufficient food, exhausted  from long vigils and hard work, they fell to the device of the
                        childish and primitive, and began to propitiate the saints and the angry
                        powers. They vowed pilgrimages to shrines and drew lots, and when they
                        finally raised one of the Azores, half of the crew landed barefoot and in
                        their shirts to fulfil their vows.
                    Came then a blundering captain of the Portuguese garrison and captured the
                        whole body of pilgrims, and so rang another change upon the phenomenal
                        variety of events that attended the expedition.
                    After long and threatening wrangling, and a start on Colon's part to leave
                        his people where they were until he could fire the already smouldering
                        animosities of the Spanish sovereigns against the Portuguese, the disrobed
                        and barefoot sailors were returned to their ship, and the little sea-weary
                        caravel floundered on through tempests toward the sweet and long-prayed-for
                        port of Palos.
                    But one daybreak found the little Niña in mortal conflict
                        with gale and sea outside a Portuguese harbor. Over the bar they could see
                        the lights of the little village go out in the mist of the coming morning;
                        they could hear once and again, in the lulls between the shouting of the
                        wind and the thundering surf, the bell in the tower that stood like a gaunt
                        gray ghost in the dimness. About the slippery quays and wharfs, they saw the
                        people braving the driving rain and sleet to watch and pray for the little
                        vessel battling with the ocean under a black pall of cloud outside the
                        harbor. All morning, with consummate skill, Colon fought for the life of his
                        ship, and at nine o'clock the Niña was carried head-on by
                        wave and wind into the rain-roughened river and hove to in the lee of the
                        land.
                    The tremendous conflict with the unknown was at end.
                    Colon, with prompt discernment of the intricacies that might arise for
                        himself and for Spain upon fetching a caravel of conquest and discovery into
                        a friendly port, set about the proper business of despatching assurances to
                        the King of Portugal His human body neither asked  nor expected rest. Sailor, scientist, and diplomat, his every
                        minute of time was filled upon land or sea.
                    Beltran, thanking God for the tempest that had landed him on Portuguese soil,
                        gathered his belongings and put himself in condition to appear on the
                        streets of the little village.
                    He had in mind to take passage with the first Mediterranean ship, or shipping
                        as a member of some crew, were no passage to be had.
                    Colon was closeted with a messenger in his cabin and Beltran had no intention
                        of offering a brief and hurried farewell to the man with whose history his
                        own life had been interwoven inseparably for two years. He leaned on the
                        rail of the caravel and waited.
                    The rain had ceased, the day had brightened, and the face of the harbor
                        showed clean of the lifting fog.
                    A caravel with battened hatches, reefed sails, and anchored near to the
                        salt-scarfed, sea-mauled Niña bowed and careened with the
                        run of the current. A dripping, stained pennant hung inert at the stem-post.
                        But enough of the device was showing to identify the vessel to her
                        owner.
                    The young man stared straight at one of his own
                    African merchantmen!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIII
                    THE PALM-STREWN PATH
                    BARCELONA had been in a contemplative state for days. A
                        kind of glory overarched the beautiful port. The King and the Queen were
                        there, and there the magnificent society of Spain had betaken itself. That
                        was a distinction that in season fell to most of the principal cities of
                        Castile and Aragon, but Barcelona had been especially favored.
                    Don Cristobal Colon, admiral of the ocean sea and viceroy of all the Indies,
                        was a guest of the city, and the royal pageant and the royal reception in
                        his honor had just been held.
                    The streets were still aflutter with banners and hung with garlands. Every
                        point of vantage had been reserved for the seats of the nobility and the
                        commons had thronged the streets. At the gates, the head of the procession
                        had been watched for, hours before it came in sight. Then soldiers with
                        truncheons and mounted lances had been required to drive a way through the
                        the crush to admit the distinguished guest.
                    Hundreds of nobles had ridden out to meet him. Music and salutes preceded the
                        arrival. In the cathedral the great organ rolled, and the chant of the
                        choirs mounted to the vast groining, where the incense of the censors was
                        already collecting in shoals of fragrance.
                    Colon had been identified while yet the procession was far down the way to
                        the sea. Something of the same awe that had affected the simple natives of
                        the New World had seized the Spaniards on beholding the great man whom few
                        had known. Clothed in scarlet and white-haired, and taller than any of the
                        proud nobles  who rode at his bridle, he had
                        amply fulfilled the imaginative expectations of the folk of Barcelona. And
                        after he had passed amid a storm of vivas there had come copper-skinned
                        savages, beautiful as wild animals, and hurdles of bamboo confining birds of
                        gorgeous plumage, and hampers heaped with strange grains and fruits, and
                        thrice-armed and double-guarded men bearing coffers of gold in ornaments and
                        nuggets, and then a party of high-headed, weather-beaten tars who had made
                        the journey into the unknown and were qualified for all time to listen to
                        marvellous sea tales with a quirk at the corners of their mouths.
                    And then, the last wabbling seaman having come through the gate, the mob had
                        closed in around the procession, that seemed to be borne upon the shoulders
                        of the people toward the royal house.
                    This was surrounded while the procession climbed the stairs and was
                        swallowed, one marvel at a time, within the portals. Outside the litters of
                        the great and grand nobles, embedded in retinues, and ambassadors and envoys
                        were continually arriving amid salvos from the soldiers and shouts from the
                        populace.
                    Hourly royal patents in Don Cristobal's favor were posted on the cathedral
                        and were cried through the streets by heralds. Hourly streams of people
                        turned and poured toward some spot where it had been rumored that the
                        admiral could be seen riding at the King's right hand. Couriers covered with
                        dust galloped up to the inn or to the royal house with letters from pope or
                        King, or from some smaller dignitary, as a prince or a cardinal or a duque,
                        for and anent the greatest man in Christendom.
                    From the sea-girt city the excitement spread abroad over the world. In
                        England Henry prepared to despatch Cabot upon a voyage of exploration. In
                        Portugal serious complications arose over the sea boundaries. Bull after
                        bull was issued from Rome. Adventurers of blood and rank poured into
                        Barcelona to go with the  next expedition that
                        was already planning for an immediate return to the new possessions.
                    The Duque de Medina-Celi and another lord came into conflict over the length
                        of time that Colon had been entertained in their respective houses during
                        his unfortunate days. The duque carried off the honors by subtracting the
                        known number of years that Colon had lived with Quintanilla from the known
                        time that Colon had spent in Spain and laid claim to the whole of the
                        remainder—a hospitable total of two years.
                    Quintanilla was not much in evidence. Since the trade along the Guadalquivir
                        from Cadiz to Cordova had increased threefold and the revenues of the new
                        territory had augmented, the auditor's office had become the busiest in the
                        realm, and the gentle Quintanilla was too much engaged to enter a contest
                        for honors that he had earned long before the auspicious event of 1492.
                    But Luis de Santangel, before any one else had the first letter from Colon,
                        written on board the Niña during the great tempest, and so
                        was the first to be informed of the grand event. Courtiers and lords
                        borrowed this valuable writing and copied it. It went into print and through
                        many editions and several languages in a short time.
                    All the royal patents in Colon's favor came under the eye of Calcena and many
                        had to be transcribed by him. But Calcena knew it to be unwise to differ
                        with the unanimous opinion, and so his hand was among the earliest to be
                        extended to Colon and his forbidding smile among the first to light upon
                        him.
                    Cardinal Mendoza took Colon from the hands of the sovereigns and carried him
                        off to give a grand dinner in his honor. And it is said that the cardinal
                        set a precedent in conformance to which all the gold plate and functionaries
                        that the nobles could borrow and lend among each other were required, when
                        their entertainments followed in order. Among other extreme courtesies that
                        were laid down for their imitation was to urge  Colon to sit covered at board, after the royal custom, and to have his
                        food tasted before serving.
                    But the King surpassed the cardinal by commanding Colon to ride on his right
                        hand at his horse's, bridle, a distinction granted only to fellow monarchs.
                        And then the Queen capped the toppling height of favor by commanding Colon
                        to sit in her presence.
                    So while the populace poured hither and thither, now to see the copper
                        natives of the New World stalk by to he cared for in some grandee's
                        menagerie, now to Watch the cardinal's door to see the linkboys light the
                        great ones home from the feast; while friends rubbed their hands and enemies
                        gnawed their nails; while sycophants harried their heads for some new and
                        surpassing mark of favor to bestow upon the admiral; while Ferdinand levied
                        on the first return of gold from the New World to reimburse himself for the
                        funds of the Santa Hermandad loaned to the expedition; and while the Queen's
                        rapt eyes beheld solemn triumphs of the cross over the ancient domains of
                        unbelief; while the turmoil and excitement of the greatest event of the
                        Christian era agitated Barcelona and Spain and the world, Cristobal Colon
                        wore a modest smile and a quiet air as one who had not a single care upon
                        his shoulders.
                    But on the night of the feast at the cardinal's house, after the lords had
                        departed and a bedchamber was made ready to receive the distinguished guest,
                        Colon stood in the banquet hall amid goblets of gold and the wreck of viands
                        and the vapors of scented lamps, with all the luxuries of a mediaeval high
                        prelate's establishment about him, and waited.
                    He had sent for his little son and had given command that as soon as the
                        child arrived in Barcelona he should be brought at once to his father. A
                        messenger had but a moment before announced the arrival of the boy.
                    Then the cardinal's chamberlain led in the little one, bowed, and
                        retired.
                    That was a glorious hall, filled with a confusion of  splendor and ablaze with light. The fear of magnificence
                        stopped the little boy. His blue eyes wandered, wide-open, before they fell
                        upon the admiral coming toward him.
                    That great figure in rich brocade robes, so intent upon him, was enough like
                        his father to keep him from fleeing, but far too splendid to reassure
                        him.
                    He moved backward and Colon stopped at once.
                    The admiral extended his arms, but the child was afraid of that offered
                        embrace. Then Colon knelt that his face might be the better offered for the
                        boy's contemplation. The child was something more interested but the more
                        puzzled. Then Colon undid the clasp that fastened the rich robe, put it off
                        his shoulders, and knelt in his waistcoat and sleeves, still an imposing man
                        but growing familiar.
                    "Dost thou love me better in my rags, little son?" the admiral asked.
                    And by that sentence, that called back to the childish mind the tired man in
                        an old black doublet and wide hat, who bore him in his arms and tramped over
                        endless roads, Fernando knew his father.
                    It was then with the little sharer of his poverty and companion of his
                        wanderings pressed to his breast that the admiral was overtaken with a
                        reaction against the extravagant flattery and adulation. The dusky vision of
                        Beltran Ponce de Leon, obscure in the night and stripped of his life's just
                        reward, rose to him. All that the discarded idol had foretold to Colon had
                        come to pass. A little tremor ran over the Genoese, a prescient feeling that
                        the way of it all was written. So vivid was the return of that picture that
                        he heard again the calmness in the young knight's voice and wondered at it.
                        Would he in the inevitable reaction suffer his fall with so much grace? How
                        could any man endure it so manfully? Was it because he was sure of the
                        fidelity of one heart, in fortune fair or foul, and the sincerity of the
                        protestations of one love?
                    
                    And when the little boy tightened his arms with growing recognition and
                        affection around the admiral's neck, Colon said to him:
                    "Stand by me, little mate! Thy father hath need of thee yet!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XXXIV
                    THE SPANISH WIDOW IN TANGIER
                    IN Tangier was a house overlooking the harbor that had
                        once been owned by Abou Hacen. a Moorish engineer, long since dead.
                    It was now owned and occupied by a Spanish widow, who retained Ali Hacen, son
                        of the late Abou, as her steward. At least it was indisputable that a
                        Spanish widow dwelt in that silent house, though none of the citizens had
                        ever seen her. But her Moorish servants spoke of her freely in the market,
                        and her ships regularly came up to the wharfs of the harbor,, and her wealth
                        poured its golden toll in taxes into the coffers of the Portuguese
                        crown.
                    Her total seclusion might have been a matter of comment anywhere but in
                        Tangier. There, however, too many fugitives from the wrath of powers over
                        the world had taken up their residence for the fierce-eyed natives to single
                        out the habit of the Spanish widow for observation. But it was remarked that
                        by day some one always sat at a window of the closed house that looked
                        seaward, and that a light burned there from the fall of night until the
                        dawn.
                    But one night late in the autumn of 1492 the light was missed, the sitter by
                        the window disappeared, and neither thereafter was seen by the travellers on
                        the sea.
                    The disappearance of the watcher and the beacon followed the return of Ali
                        Hacen, the Spanish widow's steward, from Spain.
                    Antonia had sent her Moorish servant to Sevilla to learn what he could of the
                        fate of Beltran Ponce de  Leon. When he
                        returned to Tangier he had much of importance to tell the waiting woman
                        there, but little of comfort. He had visited Garcilaso de la Vega, and the
                        renowned cavalier had told him all that Spain knew of Don Beltran.
                    The King's engineer had not been heard of after his leap into the
                        Guadalquivir. Traces of a fugitive had been followed as far as Palos, but
                        the country was unsettled because of the banishment of the Jews, and actual
                        clue of Ponce de Leon had been lost within a hundred rods of the spot where
                        he had fought his remarkable duel with the Conde de Lerin.
                    Immediately upon receipt of the intelligence of Beltran's disappearance, Don
                        Garcilaso had repaired to court, which was then on a progress through
                        Andalusia, and informed himself of the sentiment among those interested in
                        the engineer.
                    On the sixth day of August three messengers arrived at the court, two for the
                        Queen and one for the King. The messenger for Don Ferdinand came from Lerin,
                        who informed his royal uncle that Doña Antonia de Aragon had been abducted
                        from the convent, presumably by Beltran Ponce de Leon, and had been hidden
                        in some unknown asylum for several months; and that the Conde de Lerin had
                        been treacherously wounded by the felon knight in such manner as to preclude
                        his service as a warrior for all time; that, broken in spirit and sick unto
                        death, he desired leave to retire to private life that he might have such
                        peace of mind and comfort as was possible during his remaining days.
                    Disability to Lerin meant the destruction of his usefulness as a leader in
                        Navarre. The loss of Doña Antonia completed the wreck of the King's plot to
                        take over the little kingdom by his original plan. Ferdinand's rage
                        concentrated itself upon vengeance, whether or not the object of his wrath
                        were living to suffer it.
                    He knew, as did all Spain, that the fortune of Don Beltran Ponce de Leon was
                        afloat on the Mediterranean  and that his base
                        was Tangier. If Doña Antonia had asylum, or if Don Beltran had made good his
                        escape, that city would receive them. It was Portuguese soil and its
                        citizens were protected by the government at Lisbon. Feeling between the two
                        kingdoms was strained enough to invite Ferdinand into a high-handed piracy
                        of Don Beltran's ships and the forcible seizure of Antonia, whether maid or
                        wife, and of Beltran, wherever either might be found.
                    He summoned Calcena, told him the news, and in the midst of their fast and
                        furious plotting, the Queen entered alone and unannounced.
                    She passed to Ferdinand a letter, the first page of which she carefully
                        extracted in his sight and retained.
                    "Read," she said simply.
                    And while the King, vexed and astonished, scanned the writing, she stepped a
                        little apart and signed to Calcena.
                    "Sir," she said, "a messenger came to me this morning from the Sanchez
                        brothers of Aragon. They had despatched him upon the moment of their sailing
                        into exile. Can you guess what they said to me, and what writings they
                        enclosed?"
                    Garcilaso, telling all this to Hacen, and Hacen telling it all again to
                        Antonia, said that Calcena was observed to grasp the. table and well-nigh
                        faint at the feet of the Queen.
                    "Sir," Isabella went on, "I am in possession of the whole of it; the letters
                        you sent, the demands you made, and the outcome of the transaction. On this
                        sheet"—holding up the page that she had reserved from the letter
                        which she had given the King—"is the name of the person who stayed
                        your wicked plot at the ruined tower, and a complete explanation of how this
                        selfsame tragedy which my lord and you now discuss, came to pass. Shall I
                        lay the matter in its entirety before the King?"
                    At that Calcena fell upon his knees, according to Garcilaso, and implored the
                        Queen to have mercy upon  him. But Isabella
                        knew better than Calcena that exposure would profit her nothing. She knew
                        that even Calcena did not know how unshakable his standing was with the
                        King. She had gained her point when she terrified him. After that it was the
                        simplest matter to wring from him a promise to recall the Inquisition's
                        warrant for Don Beltran's arrest and, to hold off his hands for all time
                        from Antonia and the young engineer.
                    All this occurred within sight though not within hearing of the King, who
                        looked up, troubled and annoyed from the writing, to behold the dramatic
                        pantomime proceeding before his Queen.
                    Isabella turned back to Ferdinand and took the letter again.
                    "Poor old man!" she said, looking at the staggering handwriting. "See you, my
                        lord, he had not strength to write it all at once; here his pen failed him
                        and he had to lay it down; here he took strength again and continued; there,
                        if mine eyes mistake not, he hath wept! A dying man, to weep from grief and
                        distress! How faithfully he hath served us, my lord, and how much he loved
                        his nephew! We cannot deny this prayer."
                    Ferdinand turned away from the Queen, saying coldly, that, much as his heart
                        chid him for troubling the good Marques de Cadiz on his death-bed, the royal
                        will could not be flagrantly transgressed, as in Don Beltran's case, without
                        punishment.
                    "My lord, if the young man is dead, you cannot punish him. You can only kill
                        the good old marques the sooner and load Don Beltran's widow with more woe
                        than she can bear!"
                    "It is the intent of the Inquisition to burn him in effigy! It is my intent
                        to take his vessels wherever I find them, and his widow wherever she may
                        fall into my hands."
                    "My lord, if she be living, she is a subject of Portugal."
                    
                    "She is first and before all things my niece!"
                    And then, Garcilaso had said, the Queen drew herself up and looked the King
                        in the eye and said:
                    "He was my subject! She is my subject's widow! Neither you, my lord, nor the
                        Inquisition shall disturb my subjects, living or dead, without my
                        consent."
                    And while the King stared at the Queen, disbelieving his ears, she summoned a
                        secretary and sent a letter with all speed to the bedside of the Marques de
                        Cadiz. And the contents of that letter set at rest, then and there and for
                        all time, the search after Don Beltran Ponce de Leon, his body, his goods,
                        or his widow.
                    But the King, unable entirely to give up his requital and yet fearing to
                        transgress the will of the Queen, determined on a unique revenge. This
                        Garcilaso bade Ali Hacen keep from Antonia as a useless sorrow.
                    The King had brought to his privy cabinet all the records of the activities
                        of the realm during the time beginning when Don Beltran Ponce de Leon was
                        rescued from the ruins of the tower until he eluded the Santa Hermandad. And
                        when they were returned to the archives it was found that the building of
                        the city of Santa Fe had been ascribed to Cardinal Mendoza or the Marques de
                        Villena; that the improvement of the Guadalquivir was the work of a Dutch
                        engineer; that the name of the messenger who had brought Cristobal Colon
                        back from the Puente Pinos had been erased and the space left unfilled, and
                        that nowhere in all that voluminous history was to be found the name of Don
                        Beltran Ponce de Leon.
                    The Marques de Cadiz died near the end of August and his estates passed to
                        his grandson whom the crown had legitimatized. The Conde de Lerin retired to
                        an estate in Andalusia that Ferdinand gave him, and while he was still
                        helpless it was said that Doña Marta came down out of Navarre and married
                        him. At least, in 1507 the young Conde de Lerin who overran Navarre  and slew the bloody Cæsar Borgia in personal
                        combat, and who was made Constable of Navarre when Ferdinand took it some
                        years later, was none other than the gallant little José Valdes of the
                        campo.
                    But when Ali Hacen had told all this or most of it to Antonia, the book of
                        life in Spain was closed to her.
                    The beautiful Moroccan winter set in; the mockery of soft winds and sunshine
                        and the perfume of blooming orchards and flowers, the singing of birds and
                        the merry-making of the quick-tempered, passionate, dangerous folk went on
                        about Antonia. Beauty and life and love wounded her at every open window
                        through the glowing daytime and the bewitching nights.
                    The winter passed and the spring came and Antonia, in her widow's weeds, knew
                        of the world only as she asked of it of her servants, or as her steward made
                        a report to her now and again.
                    But one night, when she had risen to go to her bedchamber, Ali Hacen came
                        into the apartment.
                    "A good word, lady," he said. " A master of a pleasure boat told me that when
                        coming in from Gibraltar to-day he passed the caravel Fadrique, which we had considered lost."
                    "So? Peradventure her master laid up for the season at some northern port,"
                        Antonia said.
                    "Doubtless, because the man reported that she seemed in better condition than
                        any other ship that had come in from the north this spring. He informed me
                        that she was proceeding at a rate that should bring her into port some time
                        to-night."
                    "Good! It gives me pleasure that the lives of these men are safe."
                    "And the sailor went further to say that Cristobal Colon hath returned."
                    Colon! Colon, upon whose return one day she reckoned the coming of her lover!
                        Colon, whose name dwelt in every part of her sad heart!
                    
                    "He hath proven his claim. He hath found India. He is a great man for all
                        time," the Moor concluded.
                    "How glad Don Beltran would have been," she sighed. She asked no more about
                        the triumph of the great Genoese. The world might be extended to the stars
                        and paradise brought home to men; it would rouse no eagerness in her, whose
                        interests were dead.
                    "Forgive me, lady," Hacen said presently in a low voice; "I did not mean to
                        bring up sorrows."
                    "Nay, good man. I am glad to hear of something fortunate. Thanks, and good
                        night."
                    She went on to her bedroom where a drapery hung now over the window that
                        looked toward the sea, and from which the lamp that had burned to no purpose
                        had been taken away.
                    It had been Beltran's sleeping-room. From the cubiculum of a captive, he had
                        won his way by the charm of his spirit and the skill of his hands to the
                        chamber of an equal in the house of his master. When she had been brought to
                        Tangier she had seized upon that room as her own with a sad longing to be as
                        dose to her lover as she might be. Each article of furniture that he had
                        used she made her own; the divan that had been his bed, the seats, and the
                        tables—all that had known the touch of his hands. The surroundings
                        she garnished, adding the woman-touch, in airy draperies, and choice rugs,
                        and femininities in mirrors and cushions, vases for flowers, and lamps that
                        were beautiful to behold, either burning or dark. Thus she surrounded the
                        trace of him with herself and had waited.
                    Always from the court below the breath of the garden, sweet as love, came
                        into that chamber. Always from the sea the air was brave and hopeful. But
                        when Ali Hacen had returned from Spain she shut out the breath of the sea as
                        false and cruel.
                    The pallet of the tirewoman lay in a corner. Faithfully the servant had
                        followed her mistress through all  her
                        vicissitudes from the campo to Tangier. Now she prepared Antonia for bed;
                        the light was extinguished, the barred windows on the court were thrown
                        wide, and the quiet of slumber fell upon the house of the Spanish widow.
                    Some time in the early hours of the morning the tirewoman roused suddenly
                        with the feeling that her mistress had spoken. The moon was high and the
                        room was bright with its radiance. She could see the outline of Doña Antonia
                        lying quiet, but the impression that her mistress had spoken was not to be
                        shaken off.
                    She rose cautiously and moved over to the divan. The eyes of her mistress
                        looked up into her own.
                    "Did you speak, madame?" the tirewoman asked.
                    "It was only a dream," Antonia said after a time.
                    So much revived suffering was in the voice of the mistress that the
                        serving-woman knew what the widow had dreamed.
                    "They always come back in our dreams, for a while." she whispered. "But in
                        time, sweet lady, they cease to come.
                    Antonia presently put her hand on her servant's arm.
                    "Go back to thy sleep," she said. "It will soon be morning."
                    Reluctantly the servant obeyed and, after a useless resistance against her
                        weariness, fell asleep once more.
                    But for Antonia the night of rest was gone. Tired of her couch, she drew a
                        shawl about her shoulders, and, going to the window, put aside the curtain
                        that had shut out from her sight the deceit of the sea. Quiet as the city
                        had seemed, there was life abroad. The harbor was full of lights and motion
                        among the tall ships entering the hospitable waters or departing into the
                        blue mist on the face of the Atlantic.
                    In the cobbled streets below she heard footsteps and talk and the click of
                        mule heels on the stones. Then out of the obscurity and at her own door rose
                        a vigorous  knocking, as if the newcomer knew
                        that he must arouse a sleeping porter.
                    The Fadrique was expected in the night. Here, then, was the
                        master coming to rid himself of his moneys before harbor thieves fell afoul
                        of his strong box at the wharfs. It was a common enough event by night in
                        that house of a prosperous merchant.
                    Suddenly in the hall below, some one passed, running on bare feet, and a
                        moment after she heard Hacen laugh, loud, as only a Moor laughs, for
                        joy.
                    "His ships are his children," she said. "One restored to him is as a son
                        returned to the arms of his sire."
                    Leaning her elbows on the sill of the window, she looked long at the
                        moonlighted waste of ocean, abandoning herself to the sorrow that it
                        inflicted on her. Why should any return if not her own? Useless men and
                        wicked men lived on and on; things without life or feeling outlasted their
                        masters or creators for generations. The ruthlessness and injustice of death
                        embittered her. Sorrow could not sweeten her, for her soul was one of the
                        never-to-be-reconciled.
                    In her corner, the tirewoman roused again. The shadow of a man with a candle
                        fell across her pallet, as he moved silently into the chamber. With quick
                        eyes, he located her mistress, hesitated, set the candle on a bracket and
                        seemed to consider how to proceed.
                    Fairly lifted from her bed by a wonderful surmise, the tirewoman examined the
                        intruder. He had paused where the moonlight fell on him and the candle ray
                        touched the back of his head.
                    She saw that he was young and slender, that his hair was red, and that his
                        dress was that of a Spanish noble-man.
                    Then the faithful servant, finding her heart too full to contain itself, slid
                        out of her pallet and sped away down into the darkness of the silent
                        house.
                    The man moved soundlessly to Antonia's side, knelt  softly and, circling her as if his arms gathered all the good
                        of heaven and earth unto him, drew her head upon his breast.
                    Out on the mysterious sea night still lingered, but daybreak was near.
                
            
        
    
