
     ----CITATION---- 
        Catherwood, Mary Hartwell, 1847-1902. The White Islander: electronic version. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3884
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    "THEY ARE MY OWN FLOWER."
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE
                         WHITE ISLANDER
                
                BY
                    
                    MARY HARTWELL CATHERWOOD
                    AUTHOR OF "THE ROMANCE OF DOLLARD,"
                        "THE LADY OF FORT ST. JOHN," ETC.
                
                    NEW YORK
                    THE CENTURY CO.
                    1900
                
            
            
            
                Copyright, 1893, by MARY HARTWELL CATHERWOOD
                J. F. TAPLEY CO. New York
            
            
            
                PREFACE
                THE Island of Mackinac, set in the most translucent waters on
                    this continent, with Huron on one side of it and Michigan on the other, greatly
                    fascinates both tourist and stu- dent. No landscape-gardening and placard- ing
                    of commercial man can ever quite spoil its wild beauty. The white cliffs and the
                    shaggy wilderness defy him. Across the strait, westward, is St. Ignace, where
                    Father Marquette's grave may yet be seen, though the birch-bark coffin
                    holding his bones has been removed to another shrine. On every anniversary of
                    the removal, the Manito of the island remembers that despoiling, and never fails
                    to bring a storm on the lakes. Across the strait, southward, on the mainland,
                    the site of Fort Michilimackinac may easily be found. An irregular excavation, a
                    scattered orchard and clusters of gooseberry-bushes, a  long stretch of deep yellow sand, and the eternal glitter
                    of the lake, remain from the old tragedy.
                Skull Rock is yet known on the island as Henry's Cave. A venerable
                    islander, Mr. Cable, told me he had found skulls there in his boyhood.
                Through French, British, and early Ameri- can occupation, Mackinac was the center
                    of the fur trade. Indians and traders met here. The crescent bay swarmed with
                    strange figures, and packs of beaver were carried from canoe to warehouse, the
                    traffic of a con- tinent and the result of a year's labor being
                    disposed of in a few brief days. The Ameri- can Fur Company had its headquarters
                    at Mackinac, and living islanders--Dr. Bailey and James Lasley--can tell much of
                    the life it annually brought to break in one great wave upon the strip of beach.
                    You might close your eyes when the moon is large over the summer lakes, and
                    almost hear again the roaring song of coureurs de bois around
                    the turn of the bay.
            
            
            
                
                    CONTENTS
                    
                        PART I
                    
                    FORT MICHILIMACKINAC I
                    
                        PART II
                    
                    THE GHOST-FLOWER 36
                    
                        PART III
                    
                    THE RIFT IN THE ISLAND 80
                    
                        PART IV
                    
                    THE HIGH PLATEAU 127
                
            
            
            
                
                    ILLUSTRATIONS
                    "THEY ARE MY OWN FLOWER" Frontispiece
                    "AN INDIAN GIRL STOOD THERE WITH A BLANKET IN HER HANDS" 5
                    WAWATAM
                        41
                    " BUT NO PRIEST CAN BE A
                            HUSBAND" 109
                    "FATHER JONOIS WAS BEGINNING THE MARRIAGE SERVICE " 153
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE WHITE ISLANDER
                
                    PART I FORT MICHILIMACKINAC
                    THE young fur-trader, Alexander Henry, sat in his house within the fort,
                        writ- ing letters. The June day was sultry. Such midsummer heat was rarely
                        felt on the straits where the great lakes mingled.
                    The Chippewa Indians of the settlement were playing a game of baggatiway with
                        some neighboring Sacs, and as they pursued the ball across half a mile of
                        sandy beach from one post to the other, their shouts approached or
                        retreated. The fortress gates stood open, officers and soldiers lounging
                        outside to watch the game. Henry could see the expanse of sparkles which
                        Lake Michi- gan spread beyond the palisade tips. Fort Michilimackinac was
                        one of the oldest out-  posts of civilization on
                        the continent. The earliest explorers had rested here; and now that French
                        rule was giving way before the pressure of England, this post grudged itself
                        to the new colors hanging from the flagstaff. It had never been strongly
                        built, having only wooden bastions and palisades, and it had never been so
                        carelessly guarded as on this June day.
                    Within the area, and against eastern walls, which gave them shadow, sat
                        Chippewa squaws, huddling their blankets around them in spite of the heat.
                        There was a canoe at the beach, just arrived from Detroit, and the trader
                        made haste to finish his letters that he might go out and inquire the news
                        of the English garrison there. His habit of self- control kept him at his
                        task while the whole settlement played.
                    A trampling rush of the Indians driving their ball to the post nearest the
                        fort came like a sudden rustle of the lake against its beach. Out of this
                        noise rose another, echo- ing from the pine-woods back of the clearing, and
                        filling the sky's hollow and the lake's plane. It was the
                        Indian war-whoop, and meant death to the garrison.
                    
                    Henry sprang to his feet, and seized his rifle, expecting to hear the
                        drum-call to arms. But the savages took the fort in an instant. Not an
                        English voice was raised except in death-cries. The squaws threw back their
                        blankets, revealing the weapons they had car- ried into the inclosure, and
                        gave these to the swarming Chippewas. Half-naked figures, their rigid sinews
                        working like lines of fire, struck down and scalped all they met in their
                        furious courses. The earth seemed turned to a frightful picture, and
                        incredible things were done where a deceitful tribe had just been amusing
                        themselves and their victims with ball-play.
                    That long moment of waiting for the signal of defense blanched the young
                        trader. It was useless for him to take up arms alone against four hundred
                        Indians. He saw through his open windows more than one soldier strug- gling
                        between buckskin knees. The first savage eye turned his way would mark him
                        for its next victim. The Canadians of the fort stood by unhurt, looking at
                        the destruc- tion of the English, as trees appear to rise calmly above a
                        flood which they cannot stop, but which does not sweep them away. That  kindness between French and aboriginal blood,
                        which grew from century to century, was strongest at this very time. The
                        French settlers were not to be included in the mas- sacre.
                    Lake Michigan sparkled. The hot sun- shine lay unchanged and serene on a turf
                        soaking pools of scarlet, and on bodies out- stretched or doubled upon
                        themselves in heaps. Henry was conscious of perfume from the garden outside
                        the palisades. Bees were stooping to gooseberry-bushes or search- ing the
                        apple-boughs. A water-freshened breeze came upon the land, stirring foliage,
                        while seventy men were being hacked down by six times as many savages. The
                        gun sank in the trader's grasp. He looked around for some
                        hiding-place. As soon as the savages left off slaughter for sacking, his
                        storehouse would be their first thought. He could not escape through the
                        palisades to the woods. Langlade's cottage stood next to his. The
                        French family were gath- ered safely within, and it flashed through Henry
                        that they might mercifully hide him. He had reached his back door, when it
                        opened, and an Indian girl stood there with 
                        
                            "AN INDIAN GIRL STOOD THERE WITH A BLANKET IN HER
                                HANDS"
                        
                         a blanket in her hands. She was
                        Langlade's slave, whose name her owners never took the trouble to
                        pronounce. They called her Pani, from her tribe. Her copper skin had not its
                        usual tint, the grayness of extreme anxiety clouding it. Pani had often come
                        into the storehouse, and stood looking at the trader. She wore silver bands
                        riveted on her naked ankles. Her rounded arms were bare. Only that morning,
                        when the sun showed the crimson of her cheeks, Henry had noticed that she
                        was handsomer than the girls of the northern tribes; but he saw her now as
                        the means of escape. Pani beckoned to him, and threw the blanket over his
                        head. The trader knew he was stumbling on the low fence, and then within
                        Langlade's door. It was a back room into which Pani took him, and
                        she pushed him up a staircase. The mob's howling filled every
                        crevice of earth and sky that sound could penetrate.
                    They reached the attic. The Indian girl looked at him earnestly before she
                        closed the attic door, shaking her head when he whis- pered his thanks. The
                        young man heard her draw the key from the lock as she turned it, and her
                        moccasins went down-stairs without  his
                        knowledge. She had put him out of the massacre for as long a time as his
                        hiding- place would conceal him. There were no windows in this roof-room,
                        but Henry found a crevice between timbers through which he could look into
                        the fort. Chippewa voices were already raising the shout, "It is
                        done!" Some half-naked fellows ran, knife in hand, toward the
                        storehouse. At the same instant he heard others breaking into the room
                        below.
                    Langlade's house had nothing but a layer of boards between lower
                        rooms and attic. Distinctly the guttural inquiry rose through loosely
                        covered joists:
                    "Are any English hiding in this house?"
                    " I do not know of any," replied the Frenchman.
                    "Where, then, is the trader?"
                    "You can search for him if you think he is here, and satisfy
                        yourselves."
                    The man in the attic stood up and looked around him. There was a feather-bed
                        on the floor, and in one corner were some birch-bark vessels and troughs
                        used in making maple sugar, and during their season of disuse piled at one
                        end of the floor under the low rafters.  Henry
                        crept to the heap and inserted him- self feet foremost. He could hear the
                        crowd- ing of moccasins on the narrow stairs as he labored. Water stood in
                        chill drops on his face. He dared not disturb the light birch boxes too
                        vigorously, for fear they would fall with a clatter, or raise suspicious
                        dust in the air. Indians have many senses beside sight. They shook the
                        locked door, and bumped it with their hatchets, until the key was handed up
                        from below. Then four light-footed searchers came into the room.
                    Henry was scarcely concealed. His breath stopped. He expected to be seized
                        and dragged from the heap instantly, and closed his eyes to his fate.
                        Buckskin legs trod around in the darkness of the attic, kicking the pile,
                        and twice brushing against him. The boxes rattled, but did not fall apart.
                        The exhilarated savages talked of what they had done, and stood counting the
                        number of scalps they had taken. Their search was rapid and careless. They
                        trod on the feather-bed, and prodded the darkest corners with their
                        hatchets. They went down-stairs, still talking, obligingly locking the door
                        again before returning the key.
                    
                    The trader crept out to the feather-bed and lay down, exhausted by suspense.
                        His body relaxed, and he fell soundly asleep.
                    When he awoke it was as black as midnight in the attic, and rain was beating
                        the bark roof over his head. The tinkling and the rush of streams down
                        irregular grooves soothed him. It was one of those moments between perils
                        when a fugitive rests, indiffer- ent to his pursuers. He could hear the
                        storm roaring on the lake. He knew it was wash- ing away blood-stains in the
                        fort, and perhaps quenching to sullen smoke fires which the Indians would be
                        sure to start. Their voices in drunken cries at intervals struck across the
                        monotone of the storm. Casks of liquor were long ago rolled out from the
                        fort's stores. In the rain, or under shelter of bar- racks or
                        officers' quarters, the victors were sprawling and drinking.
                    Henry sat up and looked at his hopeless case. He was probably the only living
                        Eng- lishman in Fort Michilimackinac. It was four hundred miles to Detroit,
                        the nearest point of safety. If the door were unlocked, or if he could make
                        an opening in the roof and steal out unseen as far as the beach, and find a
                             canoe, he had nothing with which to stock
                        it; and the whole route lay through hostile tribes who were evidently united
                        in rising against the English. Yet to stay was to die. The Indians knew him
                        well. They owed him for goods. By morning they would search him out, and as
                        many as could unite in paying him with their hatchets would cut him
                        down.
                    His troubled thoughts, and the downpour on the roof, must have shut his ears
                        to noise in the room below; for he was startled at seeing a rod of light
                        appear under the attic door. By this token Henry knew a candle was coming
                        up-stairs.
                    Monsieur Langlade was the bearer of it. "You searched the place
                        yourselves," he said outside the door, his key groping for its bolt
                        in the lock. "Very good. Look again. Look until you are
                        satisfied."
                    The door swung back, and Monsieur Lang- lade stepped in, lifting his candle
                        so that its sheen fell upon naked red heads and shoul- ders gorging the
                        staircase.
                    The young trader stood up. His person expanded, and he fixed an unmoving eye
                        on the rabble. As Monsieur Langlade's candle  revealed the occupant of the attic, he uttered a
                        nervous cry. It was for the children asleep below, rather than for the
                        trader, whose con- cealment in his house might bring vengeance on them. He
                        had himself so many times braved death with coolness that it did not seem to
                        him the worst thing which could be- fall a man, but it was a pitiable thing
                        for the very young.
                    The foremost savage caught Henry by the collar, and lifted his knife. Death
                        was en- dured in that action, though the raised arm was not permitted to
                        inflict it. A Chippewa in hunting-dress caught the knife-handle.
                    The little yellow flame scarcely showed two struggling figures, or the faces
                        brought close together by the bracing of sinewy limbs. Other Indians poured
                        into the attic, but waited, weapons in hand, respecting the brief wrestle of
                        the two for the knife. In the midst of this effort made for him, Henry was
                        con- scious that a mouse squeaked in a corner, and he saw the heap of
                        birch-bark troughs enlarg- ing and contracting in the weird play of light.
                        Imperfect as was his knowledge of the Chip- pewa tongue, he seized the
                        meaning of the fierce words between the holders of the knife.  "Will you kill my adopted brother before my
                        eyes?" The hunter was Wawatam. Henry knew his voice.
                    "We will make broth of all the English."
                    " But every man in the tribe promised me to save the life of my
                        brother, if I would go away and not tell him. I went."
                    "We know that well. We know Wawatam went hunting, instead of lifting
                        the hatchet against the English. The fort at Detroit is taken, and all the
                        tribes are risen with Pon- tiac to sweep the English from our country. And
                        Wawatam goes hunting."
                    "Stop! I am a Chippewa, but I cannot eat my brother's
                        people. My blood is in his arm, and his blood is in my arm. I cannot eat my
                        own blood."
                    "But we can eat all the English."
                     "Give me this knife. I believed you were false Chippewas, and so I
                        came back."
                    " Let go the knife! "
                    "I will not let it go. I have brought a present to give in exchange
                        for my brother. You taunt me with going hunting. I went to my
                        lodge."
                    "Yes; Wawatam goes to his lodge in time of war."
                    
                    "It is well for you now that you hold the knife. I am no woman, but
                        neither am I the eater of my brother's flesh. Will the Chip- pewas
                        take my present and let him go, or will they cut down one of their chiefs
                        with their enemies?"
                    The Frenchman who held the light waited the end of this dispute with more
                        visible anxiety than the Englishman. Henry began to feel that no Indian
                        could kill him. His brother Wawatam seemed to prevail. The squad of warriors
                        remembered their prom- ise. They were a people ruled only by per- suasive
                        eloquence moving on the surface of their passions, and they felt in their
                        own lives and practices the force of Wawatam's plea. The Chippewa
                        in his grasp inquired where his present was. Wawatam said it was in the
                        kitchen below. His antagonist relaxed hold, and Monsieur Langlade lifted the
                        candle high to light the descent.
                    A knot of bodies emerged from the foot of the stairs, Wawatam keeping close
                        to Henry. Rain was pouring down the kitchen windows in sheets, showing
                        diamond lights against a background of blackness. The muddy prints of many
                        moccasins tarnished Madame Lang- 
                        lade's scoured floor. Her husband's face was drawn with
                        anxiety to have the business over and the party out of his house.
                    Wawatam dragged his packet from the spot where he had dropped it, and stooped
                        to one knee while he uncorded it. Fine skins and wampum enough to satisfy
                        the greedy eyes around him were displayed as well as the light could display
                        them. Wawatam was quick in completing his tacit bargain. Only a few of his
                        tribe were parties to the exchange, and so jealous and changeable is the
                        savage nature that he could not count on their continued acceptance of
                        it.
                    "Take your brother," said the man with whom he had
                        struggled for the knife; and Wawatam at once opened the door and slipped
                        with Henry into the storm. He gave no backward glance at Chippewas dividing
                        the furs, or the Frenchman waiting their plea- sure, but he and Henry made
                        their way around the house and toward the palisade gate. It stood wide open.
                        They could see the whiteness of the hissing lake. Wawatam spoke at his
                        brother's ear, wind and water even then half destroying the sound,
                        and directed Henry to tread close behind him. 
                        They stumbled across bodies. Lightning smote the world vivid with its glare,
                        and Henry saw one of those faces; but Wawa- tam swept his eye around for
                        living and drunken Chippewas. He mistook a shout for the outcry of discovery
                        and pursuit, and leaped with Henry through the gate into deep wet sand.
                    The Chippewa chief pushed his canoe di- rectly out, and bade his brother get
                        in. They were off from the shore in a breath, each bal- ancing himself and
                        paddling with desperate care. No Indian would ordinarily trust his life to
                        the lake on such a night. If driven to the water, he would skirt the shore.
                        But Wa- watam steered out across the straits as well as he could in the
                        darkness. Their first efforts kept the two men from seeing anything but the
                        lake heaving its awful shoulders to swamp them. They rode swells which made
                        the little boat shiver. Foam hissed around them, and stuck upon their
                        persons in white specks. But as their muscles grew to acting with automa-
                        tic sweep and balance, the universe around them could be swiftly noticed.
                        There was no sky except when the lightning spilled it. Then vision flashed
                        abroad to immensity, and  suddenly contracted
                        to blindness. Thunder bellowed among the islands, and shook like some
                        substance afloat in the air, until the long reverberations lost themselves.
                        The fort was an opaque mass against a low-lying fore- ground, lighted in one
                        or two spots. White Canadian houses behind it showed their sleek walls as
                        phosphorescence, and then vanished. The scant forest on the mainland pricked
                        out its pine points, and withdrew them again.
                    Rain trickled down Henry's face, and his long hair clung in tendrils
                        around his neck and ears. He had no hat. Wawatam, who never wore anything on
                        his shaven poll but a chief's decoration, shone when electrical
                        light revealed him. Their peril grew as they ad- vanced farther into the
                        waste blackness. The Englishman answered the motions of his pilot with
                        steady nerve. That day had given him sights which seared the mind. He was
                        ready to drown, though if the canoe swamped he felt he might mechanically
                        swim.
                    From the general direction of their zigzag tossing he guessed the port which
                        Wawatam hoped to reach. But no talk could pass be- tween the two men except
                        at the top of their voices, and they kept silence.
                    
                    Henry knew very little about this Chip- pewa who had adopted him with the
                        super- stitious selection peculiar to the Indian na- ture. Wawatam had begun
                        a year before to make him presents, speeches, and lover-like visits. Henry
                        had responded, amused and touched, giving presents in return, and prac-
                        tising his store of Chippewa words with a good will. He felt no sacred claim
                        upon the Indian, and acknowledged in himself no necessity to risk life in
                        such a service as this. The character of the silent red man loomed before
                        him a colossal manito, of unsuspected worth. He had seen the brutal side of
                        savage nature; he was seeing now its spir- itual side.
                    The trader understood that Wawatam had a family, and he thought of the squaw
                        waiting in anguish, and looking from her lodge at this black chaos. They had
                        been out so long that he forgot every function of life ex- cept an automatic
                        balance and the fight with the paddles, when he began to take notice of a
                        roseate star in the north. Lightning blot- ted it, but in darkness it burned
                        steadily, and he finally saw it was low against a mass of land.
                    
                    "The island of Mackinac?" he shouted in Chippewa at
                        Wawatam.
                    "Yes; the Great Turtle," shouted back Wawatam.
                    Henry had not crossed the straits since his arrival at Fort Michilimackinac,
                        and the islands were unknown worlds to him. He was the pioneer of the
                        English fur-trade, and had ventured with audacious courage to the wooden
                        outpost poorly maintained by a mere advance-guard of his nation. Received
                        coldly by the settled French, with warnings by the soldiers, and sullenly by
                        the Indians, he had not plunged into the woods at all, though their spring
                        freshness tempted him, and the glare on the sand was a monotonous sight, but
                        remained about the fort, guarding his stores, and making such headway as he
                        could into savage friendship. The Great Turtle, or Mackinac, Island, was
                        about five miles distant from Fort Michilimackinac across the strait. On
                        clear days, in the elastic and transparent air at the mouth of the lakes, he
                        could see the white cliffs of Mackinac half smothered in foliage. He knew
                        the Chippewas venerated it with super- stitious feeling. They gathered there
                        for  their great ceremonies. It was sometimes
                        thronged with lodges, and sometimes left in solitude. A colossal manito
                        brooded over the place, and other invisible beings worked spells there.
                        Henry smiled in the darkness at being flung for safety, through flood and
                        storm, upon this enchanted land. Wawatam was attempting as well as he could
                        to put his brother in barbarian sanctuary.
                    A smaller island lying south of the Great Turtle reached out for them with a
                        long phosphorescent arm. Pale green and dia- mond lights flashed from this
                        sandy bar as the water rolled over it, coruscating and changing through
                        countless tones of color. Wawatam steered far from the uncanny
                        grappling-hook. Henry was ignorant of these insular coast-lines. When,
                        therefore, after long darkness the dying lightning made its revelations, he
                        was startled by the near- ness of the shore. It stood above him. The canoe
                        tossed like a chip at the base of wooded heights. The low-lying star which
                        he had watched emerged from the windings of their course a conflagration.
                        They no longer needed the lightning. A fire roared in a stone fireplace on
                        the beach, and rose-  colored smoke escaped
                        from the penthouse of its front. Logs of some size, and much small fuel,
                        heaped the hearth. Henry could hear through the hiss of water a crackling of
                        pine and cedar. The fireplace was in a shel- tered cove partly walled around
                        by rocks. On the beach floor and in front of the glare two figures moved
                        about, the rain scarcely veiling them. Henry was so wet that he knew his
                        fingers were shrunken and white around the paddles. The June night chill
                        reached his bones. The fire, like a home hearth inviting him to this unknown
                        coast, appealed with a power that his flesh instantly acknowledged. But the
                        tenders of it so sur- prised him that his discomfort was forgotten in
                        straining sight at them. They were two white children, a girl, and a short,
                        grotesque boy. The girl stood well within the shelter of rocks, and directed
                        the boy in his laying of the wood. Light poured upon her, now rising so that
                        Henry could even note the flush of her cheek and the lines of her eye-
                        brows, and now sinking until her face became a rosy blot in the dimness. She
                        appeared to be dressed in gray gull-feathers lying smoothly downward,
                        untarnished by the rain.  This plumage gave
                        roundness to her young shape. Her hair hung in two large braids down the
                        front of her shoulders. When the boy had put wood on the fire, he resumed
                        turning a leather string on which a piece of meat hung roasting. The string
                        was fas- tened to a crosspiece upheld by two forks set in sand and stones.
                        At a corner of the hearth a bark platter of fish stood ready, savory incense
                        suggesting itself in the air above. Henry noted all these things with a
                        quick glance or two; the picture of the wilderness kitchen so illuminated
                        filled his mind by a single impression.
                    Such a narrow strip of beach paved it that every swell of the lake threatened
                        to over- whelm the fire. Yet the high-riding water always broke hissing
                        among fragments of rock lying scattered at the edge--waste stuff that it had
                        carved out in past ages when it made the fireplace. Not a spatter of foam
                        reached the girl or the supper she was tending.
                    She and her companion watched the outer darkness, but, dazzled by the light
                        in which they stood, they were blind to the speck rid- ing so near them.
                        Wawatam knew every  inch of the Mackinac coast;
                        but remember- ing all they had dared that night, Henry thought he was
                        absurdly cautious about land- ing his canoe. He held it out in the weather,
                        and moved on eastward, until the kitchen's shine lay behind them, a
                        heaving bar across the water. They passed a turn of the cliff, and after
                        much skilful paddling came into a softly rounded cove which could scarcely
                        be called a bay, but which sheltered and let them easily on shore. Henry
                        guessed at these things by the massing or retreating of glooms above him,
                        and the line of the water. The organ breathing of evergreens overhead
                        convinced him that pine and cedar clothed these heights like a garment.
                    To feel hard pebbles underfoot, and to grasp a rock or a bough, was returning
                        to life after long suspension in what was neither life nor death. They
                        pulled their canoe in, and Henry helped Wawatam conceal it and the paddles
                        in a thicket of balsam fir which scratched their hands with its wet
                        needles.
                    Their path under the cliff was a very nar- row one. Several times they had to
                        wade, and the lake washed their legs as they hugged the wall. Wawatam led
                        the way.  He grunted cautious words to Henry
                        when the, Englishman fell behind in crossing a pool or lost the direction
                        among rocks. Again they saw the shine on the water, and felt it reaching to
                        them through chinks of the trees. Wawa- tam suddenly raised his voice in a
                        low, pene- trating hoot. He held the trader in a pause. A similar call
                        answered him from the kitchen.
                    They came to the broadening of the beach and the roaring fireplace. If it had
                        seemed cheerful from the lake, it seemed home's own altar now, and
                        the offerings smoked in readi- ness for two hungry, exhausted men. Henry
                        looked eagerly around. No human being was there; not a rustle came from the
                        shadows. He felt disappointed. He felt even tricked by the influences of the
                        island. Two figures had certainly passed before the hearth. In this empty
                        place he had traced the outlines of a girl's eyebrows. No noise of
                        climbing, no crackle of broken brush, betrayed a re- treat. There was only
                        the crackle of the fire, and to that he was obliged to give himself, turning
                        himself in luxury and drying his steaming clothes.
                    Wawatam seemed only half pleased by what the vanished islanders had done for
                             them. He took his knife and swiftly cut
                        small pines, piling them between the glowing fireplace and the lake. It
                        required so many to make a screen high enough, that Henry was quite
                        'dry when Wawatam finished his task.
                    Still looking waterward with misgivings, he made his English brother sit
                        against the pile, hid from possible voyagers, while they ate their
                        supper.
                    Before Wawatam sat down he brought water from a spring near by. Listening,
                        Henry could distinguish its gush from the falling of the rain. It came down
                        the cliff, as he learned for himself later, but at that time he thought its
                        small noise was simply an escape into the lake. The water and the venison
                        and fish were delicious enchanted drink and food. Henry felt his blood
                        revived with sudden impetus such as wine gives. It flew through his
                        arteries, a distinct rapture. His eyes laughed, and the long taciturnity of
                        the night passed away, like a trance. He wanted to raise a shout, and make
                        his voice ring against the cliff, but the precautions of Wawatam were a
                        warning to recklessness. So he only talked rapidly, managing the  Chippewa words as well as he could, but ex- uberantly
                        slipping into English or French where expression failed him.
                    Wawatam listened, and answered seriously, or with a smile slightly loosening
                        the corners of his mouth. He was glad his brother was safe and full of
                        spirits. He was a straight- featured Indian, spare but sinewy. His face, as
                        it dried in the firelight, showed a clear- ness of tint and a benignity
                        unusual in his tribe. The draggling rain robbed him of no dignified effect
                        in his clothes. He was well dressed in buckskins, the fringed collar open-
                        ing and showing a clean-cut neck finely done in human bronze. Exposure to
                        sun and weather had printed small radiating lines at the corners of his
                        unshaded eyes. He was very little older than Henry, but his fore- fathers of
                        the wilderness had left their somber and aging impress on him, as Saxon and
                        Norman had left their brighter impress on the Englishman.
                    " My brother has brought me to a good lodge."
                    "Best not stay here long," said Wawatam.
                    " Have you some hole to put me in on the island?"
                    
                    "A good hole," said Wawatam.
                    "You are not going to let your brother down like Joseph into some
                        pit? "
                    "Joseph is not in a pit. Joseph stands on the altar,"
                        remarked Wawatam, whose know- ledge of Hebrew history was bounded by the
                        mission church at L'Arbre Croche.
                    "I did n't mean the saint. But I shall be safe wherever you
                        put me."
                    "There is no pit," said Wawatam, "except the rift;
                        and that is not a pit. It is where the heart of the island
                        broke."
                    " What broke its heart?"
                    "Once the manito left Mackinac: that broke the island's
                        heart?"
                    "Did he ever come back?"
                    "Who could stay away?"
                    "Is your lodge on the island, Wawatam?"
                    "Yes."
                    "You are never afraid of the spirits?"
                    Wawatam glanced around under the rims of his eyelashes. He did not answer,
                        but excused the light inquiry of his brother.
                    The young Englishman rested against his evergreen cushion and looked at the
                        myste- rious cliffs. He was open to beautiful impres- sions. Strong love of
                        the wilderness had  brought him to this
                        perilous frontier. Before penetrating a yard into the island he felt its
                        influence like the premonition of love. It drew him and claimed him. The
                        fire gave him a flickering sight of crumbly limestone full of little sockets
                        and cleavages filled with moss. Gnarly pine-trees hung down, dis- torted
                        with gripping the rock. Wet young ferns breathed somewhere under cover,
                        their shy maid's breath being brought to him by the dampness.
                    "Who were those spirits tending the fire before we landed?"
                        inquired Henry.
                    Wawatam relaxed his mouth-corners more, and answered: " They were no
                        spirits. They were part of my family."
                    " But seen from the lake they looked like a white boy and
                        girl."
                    "Yes; they are white."
                    " How did you get a white family, Wa- watam?"
                    "Not all my family are white. My old grandmother is
                        Chippewa."
                    "How many are there in my brother Wa- watam's family?
                        "
                    "Three: my old grandmother and the boy and girl."
                    
                    "Was their mother a white woman?"
                    "Yes; both their mothers were white."
                    "Then they are not your children?"
                    "No; the boy is my adopted son. He has but one eye. The girl is my
                        wife."
                    Henry had a sensation of discomfort mar- ring his perfect physical happiness.
                        As he lowered his eyes to the glowing coals he asked himself why an Indian
                        like Wawatam should not have a white wife if he wanted one.
                    " Your wife? " repeated the trader.
                    "She will be my wife," corrected Wawatam. " She
                        lives yet in the lodge with my grand- mother. When peace comes I will take
                        her in my canoe to the priest at L'Arbre Croche. No time for
                        marrying now. Too much war; too many evil birds making a
                        noise."
                    " Who is she, Wawatam? "
                    "She is a girl without father or mother."
                    "I understand, then, that my brother has at some time kept her from
                        being killed as he has just kept me from being killed. Is she
                        English?"
                    " No; French."
                    " But your people are the friends of the French."
                    
                    " I did not say I had kept her from being killed."
                    "And is the boy her brother?"
                    " No; he is English. He is what you call an idiot," said
                        Wawatam, with unconscious humor." But we do not call it
                        so." Henry laughed.
                    "The English at Michilimackinac certainly behaved like idiots to-day
                        when they threw the fortress gates open. And nearly all of us have died the
                        death of idiots. My escape was by no wisdom of mine."
                    " No more time to talk," said Wawatam, rising. "
                        You must hide."
                    He took the largest firebrands and plunged them into the lake. The logs and
                        coals he put out with water carried in the gourd which had supplied them
                        from the spring. A hiss- ing white vapor and clouds of ashes drove Henry up
                        from the evergreens, and darkness grew where the hospitable hearth had
                        shone.
                    As the ashes settled, and steam ceased rising, Wawatam spoke in the darkness
                        to his adopted brother.
                    "I must go back to my tribe, to the feasts and war-councils, or they
                        may search you out  and kill you yet. They
                        think I am only half- hearted in this war. The French girl that is to be my
                        wife will have to bring you food, for there is no one else on the island but
                        my old grandmother, and the boy, who could not re- member."
                    Henry drew in his breath with a quick im- pulse. But he waited with all the
                        gravity which this hint imposed. After a few minutes he made the
                        promise:
                    "She shall be my sister as Wawatam is my brother."
                    The Indian on his side kept silence in the darkness. When he spoke he
                        said:
                    " I will trust my brother."
                    He began the march, and Henry followed him. They took the same way along the
                        beach by which they had come, wading pools and walking around rocks. The
                        rain thinned, and the lightning had become a flicker on the horizon, but the
                        angry lake still rolled in white ridges, and made a wide-spread noise of its
                        wash on the shore. When they came to the cove where the canoe lay hidden,
                        Wawatam waited and listened. Satisfied by sound or lack of sound which could
                        not be detected  by his white brother, he then
                        made rapid pro- gress. The ground stooped to them; the wooded heights sloped
                        down to draw a lovely semi-circle, rounding the froth and glitter of waters.
                        Wawatam did not follow the shore- line here, but struck up a long shoulder
                        of hill, tracing some course he knew well, though the pine boughs had to be
                        parted out of their way. Henry trod directly behind him. A hint of morning
                        was already abroad, in that thinning of the darkness which is more the wan
                        failure of night than the decided approach of day. Birds were inquiring of
                        one another in their unseen retreats. Uncanny wings went past
                        Henry's face, giving him a shuddering start.
                    "Bats," observed Wawatam.
                    Moisture in the evergreens and low, broad- leaved oaks rained upon them; but
                        in all this indistinctness and blind following of his leader, Henry felt the
                        exhilaration of the island. The wet was a sprinkling of balm. Heavenly in-
                        cense from thousands of primeval censers filled the woods, and filled his
                        spirit. Two or three times he thought he heard twigs breaking be- hind them,
                        and told Wawatam. The chief lis- tened with him once, and moved on
                        undisturbed.
                    
                    They had groped over many levels, through many mazes of juniper and hemlock
                        and acres of thick-studded trees, when Wawatam as- cended a little mound of
                        flinty waste, and stood breasting a large rock covered with tangle.
                    " Here it is."
                    "What is it?" inquired the trader.
                    "The Skull Rock."
                    " Do we stop here?"
                    "You must creep in."
                    He pressed his hands on his brother's shoulders, and made Henry
                        stoop to the low opening.
                    "Creep in as far as you can," said Wa- watam.
                    "Is it a cave?"
                    " Yes."
                    "A large one?"
                    "Not very large. But you can hide there."
                    "Will my brother rest in this cave, too? "
                    "No; the storm is past now. I must go back to Michilimackinac before
                        the sun is up. It will be better if I am there in the morn- ing. My tribe
                        will not know how far I have brought you."
                    "But you have had no sleep all night."
                    
                    "No matter."
                    "And the lake is still covered with white- caps."
                    "The paddling will be easier when there is some light."
                    "How soon shall I see my brother Wawa- tam again?"
                    "Not soon, unless there is danger. My brother must lie quiet and
                        wait in patience until I can find some chance to send him to his
                        people."
                    Henry squeezed the Chippewa's hand. This was no farewell for
                        Wawatam, who took his white brother in his arms. The forest breathed around
                        them, and bits of sky above the trees were translucent with rising
                        light.
                    "Bless you, old fellow! I am not worth half the trouble you have
                        taken for me. I hope I can do something for you some time, and that you
                        'll never regret you saved my scalp."
                    " Good-by, my English brother."
                    " Good-by, my Chippewa brother."
                    Henry crawled into the cave's mouth. The dank odor repelled him, and
                        he turned his head back to ask Wawatam, who yet stooped watching him:
                    
                    "No snakes in here, I suppose?"
                    " No; Skull Rock is a sacred cave. No snakes on the island except
                        two kinds, and they have no poison."
                    The trader crept down the cavern's slope. He looked back once more
                        to see the red face at the opening of the rock; but Wawa- tam's
                        moccasins were silently moving away on their journey to Michilimackinac.
                    The place was paved with uneven frag- ments, which rolled under
                        Henry's hand as he groped. It was an irregular hollow, turn- ing at
                        right angles in the rock, and when he reached the turn he thrust his feet
                        backward into the further mystery, and stretched him- self out with his face
                        to the opening. He was stiff from his long paddling, and faint from living
                        such a day. The elixir of the island no longer reached him. The pres- ence
                        and restraint of a stoic like Wawatam being taken away, he gave himself up
                        to weakness, and slept like a dead man, un- moving and pale.
                
                
                
                    PART II THE GHOST-FLOWER
                    "SING again, George."
                    "George has sung."
                    "I say sing again."
                    "All good."
                    George sang again, if a nasal droning broken by barks and bird-trillings
                        could be called singing. The singer had doubtless learned his music in the
                        school of the Chip- pewas. Henry heard it in the cavern under- neath, and
                        knew what figures were sitting on the top of the rock among gnarled pines
                        and tangled growths.
                    "That will do, George. That ought to wake the Englishman if he is
                        ever going to wake. I am tired of sending you down to look at
                        him."
                    "Pretty man in the cave," observed George.
                    
                    "The English all look well enough, but they are a bad people. I do
                        not like them."
                    "Not like George?" remonstrated her companion, with a
                        whine. " George all Eng- lish boy."
                    "You great baby, can you not be sure I like you when I am making you
                        a pair of new moccasins? You belong to the island. But the English--they are
                        quite another sort; though I am glad I learned their lan- guage in the
                        convent, since you can never speak French."
                    The sweet contralto voice, using his mother- tongue with an accentuation
                        which he had often called "frog-eater's brogue,"
                        and using it to denounce his nation, made Henry smile in the cave. He was in
                        need of amusement. As he tried to move himself on the uneasy lumps of his
                        rock mattress, a shudder ran through him. Daylight penetrated far enough
                        into the cavern to show him that he was ly- ing on human skulls. Bald,
                        narrow frontal bones and eyeless sockets stared through the drift of old
                        leaves. Henry crawled over these specter faces toward the entrance. There he
                        found a roasted bird and some venison on a birch dish.
                    
                    His movement was heard by the two over- head, and they scrambled off the
                        rock. The girl's voice hissed a low warning. " Monsieur
                        must not come out of this cave until he is permitted."
                    Henry stopped, and the boy, tearing through bushes, appeared in front of him
                        as a guard. He rolled his head at Henry, and enforced the uttered mandate by
                        adding, "All good."
                    The look of eternal infancy on his idiot face was most touching by daylight.
                        Stunted to a grotesque broadness and knottiness of figure, he moved like a
                        little bear on its hind feet, and his dress bore out the resemblance. It was
                        all in one piece, a bifurcated apron made of a dark blanket, which fastened
                        at the back, and was drawn by a cord around the neck. His eyebrows and hair
                        were of a sandy tint, and his skin maintained a raw pinkness. His single eye
                        had the penetrating stare, and probably the microscopic power, of a
                        bird's.
                    Henry leaned forward, and looked around the edge of the cave for the white
                        islander. She stood hidden among the trees, but promptly repeated:
                    " Monsieur must not come out."
                    
                    "But, mademoiselle, there are skulls in this rock."
                    "They are nothing but the heads of good Indians. Does monsieur find
                        them very bald?"
                    " Quite so, mademoiselle."
                    "Monsieur's skull will soon be as bald as they are if he
                        ventures out before it is safe. The chief commanded that he should lie
                        still."
                    "When did you see Wawatam?"
                    "About dawn he met us as he turned back to
                        Michilimackinac."
                    "You came up from the beach behind us, then?"
                    "Yes, monsieur. Eat your supper and be quiet."
                    "My supper? Is it evening?"
                    "Nearly evening. The light yet slants through the
                        woods."
                    "Thank you, mademoiselle, for your care of me."
                    " It is nothing."
                    "But I heard you say you were tired of waiting for me to
                        wake."
                    "Because the chief said you must be told to stay in the cave. George
                        and I have waited since noon to tell you."
                    
                    " I will obey every word you say," promised Henry.
                        "May I add to the trouble I am giving you, and ask for some
                        water?"
                    " George has been three times for water, but we threw it out as it
                        grew tepid. Go again, George, and fill the gourd, and bring it
                        quickly."
                    "Thank you, George," said the trader.
                    "All good," responded George. He am- bled away, in what
                        direction Henry did not notice. Hungry as the Englishman was, he did not
                        begin to eat, but looked at his hands and weather-stained clothes. The
                        instincts of civilization were stronger in him because he thought the white
                        islander yet stood at the cave corner. Her appendage, the boy, was long on
                        his errand. Henry could hear the rustling noises of the woods. He spoke
                        again, having waited in vain for her to speak.
                    "Have you lived on this island a great while,
                        mademoiselle?"
                    She did not answer. Henry looked cau- tiously out, though he knew he could
                        not see her. Having given her message, and sent George for the fresh supply
                        of water, she had gone her own way. When George at length handed in the
                        gourd, he looked uneasily 
                        
                            WAWATAM.
                        
                         around instead of at the man who took it. He
                        struck off through the woods as true as a dog on the trail, and Henry ate
                        and drank, hid the food which was left, and crept back among the bones. He
                        thought of himself with contempt, skulking in a hole and giving a woman the
                        care and labor of feeding him. To act and to dare were natural to him,
                        rather than to burrow and to wait.
                    He lay a long time thinking what he could do for himself. His goods were
                        confiscated. Supplies which were on the way from Detroit to him would
                        probably be seized, also, and his various clerks robbed as they returned
                        from trading in the interior. There was lit- erally no help for him except
                        in the friendship of Wawatam. His only relative in America, Sir William
                        Johnson, was too far away to know of the fort's loss soon, except
                        by guess- ing it from commotions among the Indians eastward; and his friend,
                        Monsieur Cadotte, at Sault Ste. Marie, might be unable to keep the Lake
                        Superior tribes from rising.
                    Henry regretted dropping Pani's blanket in the attic. When he
                        dropped it he expected to leave his body also. There had been no urgent need
                        of it until he tried to make a bed  in the
                        cave. He had slept well on bones before he knew they were there; but as
                        dark- ness filled the woods, and pressed their com- pany on him, the pulses
                        of his body made them creep and palpitate under him. Yet he forced himself
                        to lie still in the unendurable place, until a human shape darkened the en-
                        trance, whispering to him.
                    "What is the matter?" inquired the startled Englishman.
                    " Come with us instantly, monsieur, and be as silent as you
                        can."
                    Glad that it was necessary to change his place of concealment, he obeyed. His
                        moving hand touched the remnants of his supper.
                    "Shall I bring the gourd and dish with me? They may be found
                        here."
                    " Bring them? Yes. George will hide them."
                    Putting the things past herself, the French girl drew Henry by the arm. He
                        stood up outside the cave, stretching the cramp from his joints. The bushes
                        were shaking where George disappeared. It was not a dark night like the
                        stormy one which followed the mas- sacre, but a white one, lacing the ground
                        with every little twig. The moon in her first quarter already rode high.
                        This dense island  forest was a world of magic.
                        Henry felt its spell as he followed between walls of foliage. There must
                        have been a path, but to him it was a submerged struggle through leaves. His
                        guide parted the way easily, as a fish goes; a shorter and broader body had
                        passed through before her. The trader did not know who might be following
                        behind. He reveled in this swimming of the wilderness. He had capacities for
                        woodcraft. It gave freedom to a repressed and manly part of him, and in the
                        darkness of the buried path he breathed largely. Sweet pine, bruised by
                        hurried treading, gave out a tea-like fragrance. The rank, loamy breath of
                        moss, that night prayer of wooded lands, made itself stronger than any
                        sensation of danger. Sometimes through a break in the foliage he could see
                        spacious chambers of the woods hung with hemlock tapestry, to which the moon
                        wedged an en- trance. A man must cut his way to such a spot, and Henry
                        thought one of them might be his destination. But the French girl led him
                        out of the tangle, and he saw through a great arch of stone the clear
                        surface of the lake. It startled his pulses to come out of the New
                        World's heart facing this old ruin, the  water-carven mimicry of a gigantic castle gate.
                    His leader took him again by the wrist, and drew him away from the stone arch
                        and down into the growths on the cliff. A path descended toward the lake, so
                        narrow that one person had barely foot-room, but partly hedged by trees and
                        bushes along its outer edge. To miss footing here was to tumble into
                        unmeasured depths. Henry followed, steadying himself by a hand on trees, or
                        by clutching roots and the stone ribs of the island. This thread of a path
                        went down to a slab of rock which glaciers had cut out and canopied for a
                        seat. George was already resting in a corner of the niche in the bluff side,
                        and the other two sat down beside him, and waited in silence for what was to
                        happen. The girl leaned forward, watching the path.
                    The lake's irregular rush upon its beach could be heard below, and a
                        thousand cries of little living things which make populous the wilderness
                        sounded far and near. No crackle or stealthy swish of steps overhead could
                        be detected.
                    Henry contrasted the figure at his left hand and the English boy at his
                        right, the high in- telligence and the gentle brute, dependent  on each other for companionship. It was a
                        satisfaction to sit beside the woman. She whom he was to let alone had
                        unusual influ- ence upon him. None of the rawness of girl- hood appeared in
                        her face. She was his mother for the time, taking care of him. The trader
                        noticed her dress. It was not the plumage which he thought he had seen in
                        the beach kitchen, but a garment of dark- brown wool, made of a blanket,
                        like George's pinafore. A cap of birch bark, having a ro- sette of
                        curly fibers, was tied over her hair.
                    The twig and leaf tracery in front of them was as black as ebony against the
                        silver air above the lake. All the world glistened with dew, though their
                        shelter was dry. There was a rift in the trees towering up from the beach
                        through which they could see the moon's track on the water, spread
                        broadly with cloth of gold.
                    "Is that your brudder?" George inquired, leaning forward,
                        and touching the French girl to make her look at him. He turned his thumb
                        back at Henry.
                    "Yes," answered Henry; "I am her bro- ther. I
                        promised Wawatam to treat her as my sister."
                    "All good," said George.
                    
                    "What is her name, George?"
                    " My name is Marie Paul," she herself an- swered, relaxing
                        from her vigilance over the path. She looked at the Englishman. He was
                        distinct enough in that filtered light, and she thought him the best-made
                        man she had ever seen.
                    " George and I saw a strange canoe in the bay," she
                        explained, guarding the pitch of her voice.
                    "Perhaps Wawatam has come back," said Henry.
                    "We know his canoe."
                    "Did you see who was in it?"
                    "There was one person paddling, but it was not
                        Wawatam."
                    " I might have taken my chances with one Indian."
                    "Not while you slept. The Skull Rock may be known to all the
                        Chippewas; but this place is known only to George and me. We made the path
                        to it."
                    Henry's heart swelled because she had brought him to a place known
                        only to George and her.
                    "Then even Wawatam knows nothing about this cave? "
                    
                    "No," said Marie.
                    "Why did you go to the bay in the night?"
                    "To watch it."
                    "But you were up watching last night."
                    "One does n't mind that here on the island."
                    " Have you lived on the island long?"
                    " It is two years," answered Marie; "for I was
                        past fifteen the first time I confessed to the priest at L'Arbre
                        Croche."
                    "Was the priest at L'Arbre Croche willing for you to live
                        here among Chippewas? Why does n't he send you back to your own
                        people?"
                    " How can he, monsieur, when my family are all dead?"
                    "Then you have no relatives?"
                    "Nobody but the old Indian woman that I call
                        grandmother."
                    The French predilection for Indians made Henry smile. "Would
                        n't you rather live among whites?"
                    "Monsieur, I could not live away from this island. When you have
                        been here awhile you will understand. It bewitches you. There can be no
                        place like it. The chief took us one winter to St. Ignace, because there was
                             once the missionary village, and we could
                        be warmer. I watched the island by night and day across the ice. Its white
                        breast was my mother's breast. In the spring I was thin, and my
                        eyes were hollow with longing for it. You cannot live away from the island,
                        mon- sieur, when it has once taken hold of you." "You are
                        happy? "
                    "Everything is happy. What is there to make one miserable? George
                        and I have found the place for your lodge, monsieur."
                    "I can stay here," said Henry.
                    "No, monsieur; this will not do: you must have a lookout as well as
                        a hiding-place. To-morrow, if that canoe is gone, the grand- mother will
                        give us mats, and you shall come and help us build it."
                    "I shall be glad to," said Henry. His large eyes were
                        watching her with interest.
                    " You are not like the other English I have seen," observed
                        Marie. "You have gentle manners. It is beautiful in a man to be
                        gentle and obedient."
                    "The English do not generally obey the French," said Henry,
                        smiling.
                    "No; they love to drive us, to seize what is ours. I have heard it
                        said that is why the  English have just been
                        killed at Fort Michili- mackinac."
                    "Who was there on the island to say that?"
                    "It was the Chippewa grandmother."
                    "I will not drive the French, nor seize what is theirs,"
                        promised Henry.
                    She laughed, showing white teeth. The trader wondered how a girl nurtured by
                        the Chippewa grandmother could keep an ex- quisite person.
                    "You must stay here the rest of the night, and until we come for
                        you."
                    "I will."
                    George was asleep in his corner, and as Marie passed in front to wake him,
                        the trader turned himself to the same task.
                    " You must be very careful; he might make a noise."
                    In her anxiety she barred Henry back. The touch of her firm, healthy hand
                        tingled through him.
                    "All good," said George, when stood upon his feet and
                        warned to be quiet. He took hold of Marie's wool frock for the
                        ascent.
                    Henry also stood, and drew aside some bushes which were in their way. His
                        other  hand went out solicitous to help her,
                        but was withdrawn with a self-restraint which she keenly admired.
                    "I suppose you won't let me go up to the top of the cliff
                        with you?"
                    "No; stay here. It is after midnight. Good morning,
                        monsieur."
                    "Good morning, mademoiselle."
                    
                    SUNRISE brought a perfect day. So trans- parent was the
                        dazzling air that from the bay one could see distinctly strips of meadow and
                        woods and the white French houses on the mainland, and bars of sand edging
                        the water there. A narrow pink cloud floating in that part of the sky made
                        the lake blush in a long line under it. On the high ridge of the island were
                        open, sun-flecked woods, inhabited by white birches with broad, gray girdles
                        around their waists; and scattered around their feet lay the parchments they
                        had dropped. Henry climbed these slopes as wilfully as a truant, Marie
                        guarding his horizon, and George traveling sturdily at his heels. They had
                        two loads of mats to carry to his lodge site, as well as his provisions.
                        These goods waited under the bushes while they all loitered. The  suspension of peril causes a greater rebound than its
                        removal.
                    Great blossoms of pink and yellow fungus spotted the ground. Their fleshy
                        beauty was dry to the hand, and, broken, they showed sound hearts. Daisies
                        and blush-colored bell- shaped flowers were thick in grassy stretches; and
                        the maples were uncrumpling their very last web leaves of unripened red. The
                        ever- greens were full of small brown-crimson cones like luxuriant bloom,
                        and perfect top tassels snapped thumb and finger at the sky. In the open
                        woods ancient beds of leaves had been beaten down to mold, forming a
                        neutral- tinted background on which delicate etchings of foliage were traced
                        by the sun. Henry looked around this lucent green world, feel- ing that he
                        could never forget it--its trans- parent shadows, the scattered light upon
                        the ground. They followed a deer-path up the ridge, which Marie said was the
                        usual trail to the lodges.
                    "Because the strange canoe is gone, we must not think there is no
                        danger at all," she repeated.
                    Henry smiled at care for his life, or his goods, or his future. The present
                        was to  him the prime moment of existence. All
                        his days had led up to this one, the beginning of some golden period unknown
                        to men who lived in anxiety and toil.
                    "The island has bewitched me," he said.
                    "I knew it would," she answered, looking him through with
                        clear gray eyes, glad that he was made to own its influence. She was always
                        handling the material of life with joy and wonder.
                    A distant gleam in the woods, unseen by any one else, startled her from the
                        path. She ran over the quaking and rustling forest pave- ment, and dropped
                        upon her knees.
                    "Ghost-flower," observed George, halting, and he brought
                        his face about for the con- centration of his eye on the distant object. He
                        followed her, tumbling at full length once, and striking the leaf-dust from
                        himself when he arose.
                    Marie beckoned to the new inhabitant of the island. She was sure there could
                        be no rapture like the first finding of Indian-pipes. Her breath paused on
                        her lips as she pushed dead leaves aside and showed the bunch. Their
                        glistening white stems, on which the lucent scales were as delicate as
                        gauze, stood  in a family perhaps fifty strong,
                        closely and affectionately holding their waxen heads to- gether. Through
                        some of them flushed a faint pink, but the majority palpitated with a spirit
                        of lustrous whiteness in every part, strangely purified from color.
                    "Look at them," said Marie, impressively. "They
                        are my own flower."
                    Henry knelt down and looked at. them. He looked also at her face in its birch
                        cap, her wide brows, the rounded chin and beau- tiful throat, and the braids
                        hanging down over the swell of her young breasts. She lifted her eyelids,
                        and shared the great plea- sure of the Indian-pipes with him.
                    "You may take these. But as soon as you touch them they will begin
                        to change. Does n't it seem impossible they can turn
                        black?"
                    "Do they turn black? "
                    " Quite black, if they are handled. But left in the woods, they go
                        away like spirits."
                    Henry did not touch them. If he had not been there, she would have sat a long
                        time by the ghost-flowers, watching the glistening wonder of their open
                        cups. She broke off a handful of them, and gave them to him as  a queen confers an order. The trader said within
                        himself that he did n't know what to do with the things, but he
                        readily cumbered one hand with them. Marie then took some for herself, and
                        looked George over to see if he were fit to hold any. The poor fellow began
                        to settle in his clothes, and to seek the pockets which a white boy has a
                        right to find in his trousers, but which Marie would not sew into his since
                        he tore them out with agates and quartz. She had herself tied his
                        drawing-string, but her practised eye caught his neglected points, and she
                        put the flowers behind her.
                    " George will have to go to the lake and wash before he can have
                        some. We must all turn back before it grows any later. Mon- sieur's
                        lodge is to build. Monsieur," inquired Marie, " what are
                        you called?"
                    The trader answered that his name was Alexander Henry. She heard it without
                        ap- proval.
                    "That may do for Fort Michilimackinac, and other parts of the world,
                        but here you are Flix and Amde. In the morning you will be Flix, and in
                        the afternoon you will be Amde."
                    
                    The Englishman accepted this French christening with a flush of satisfaction.
                        " Why not Amde in the morning, and Flix in the afternoon?
                        "
                    "I do not know, except that it is the other way."
                    They moved back through the light woods over delicate traceries of foliage
                        shadow, and scrambled down a steep part of the ridge, holding by mossy
                        hummocks to keep from falling, and came to the bushes where the mats were
                        concealed. Henry and George took the loads, and Marie led on the path she
                        wished them to follow. There was no marked footway, but a parting of the
                        forest led them into a large open space from which could be seen the high
                        plateau of the island. Morning lodge-smoke ascended in blue, ex- panding
                        streamers from Wawatam's hidden camp. Marie knew the old
                        grandmother was trotting about those upper woods, engaged in the slave work
                        of an Indian woman.
                    Pale-green juniper spread its ropy branches on the ground in every direction,
                        but she piloted her stumbling carriers through the thinner snares. Then they
                        entered once more that world of pines and cedars which  guarded the coast, and were long making their way
                        among boughs, though the ground here was as smooth and clean as hard clay to
                        the foot. Everlasting twilight checked the little growths of the woods, and
                        pine-needles made an aromatic soil of their own.
                    Henry's blond face was flushed with the tramp and portage when he
                        pushed through a tangle of vines and young oaks to where Marie finally
                        waited. George ambled close behind, enjoying the world and his usual oc-
                        cupation. It was nothing for George to tramp the length and breadth of the
                        island, only to fish or find agates at certain points. His one eye saw the
                        happy side of life. Had he watched the massacre at Michilimackinac, it must
                        have typified to him some bliss be- stowed on the victims. He would have
                        said, "All good."
                    "This is the place, is it not, George?" asked Marie.
                    They looked down into an amphitheater padded with moss and curtained from the
                        lake by bushes. It was really one amphitheater over another, irregularly
                        broken with cush- ioned ledges and hidden rocks. Little trees were massed
                        together around it. A smell of  loam as sweet
                        as roses came up from the place. George focused his eye, and nodded.
                    "I was sure of it," said Marie, "though we never
                        came through the woods before. Our canoe is hid on the beach down there. You
                        cannot see this cove from the beach. It is surprising that we ever parted
                        the bushes and ,found it. I see the rock for your table, and the tree for
                        your tent-pole."
                    This world of velvet greenness was different from anything Henry had seen. It
                        was a cascade of moss forever in the act of falling down a mountain-side.
                        The distant horizon could be traced, bounding the lake. Far off the blue
                        water shaded to grass-green stripes betwixt zones of purple. He had a
                        speech- less feeling that he was in the hand of some mighty spirit that
                        changed Nature and him from moment to moment.
                    "Where are we?" he inquired.
                    "On the eastern side of the island, beyond that arch of stone that
                        you saw in the night."
                    "Then we cannot see the mainland from here?"
                    "No; but you can watch the strait."
                    They let themselves from rock to rock into the lower amphitheater, and laid
                        down their  loads. George and Henry cut poles.
                        They varied his dwelling little from the common Chippewa lodge of conical
                        shape, with rain- proof mats bound about it for shingles. The forenoon was
                        spent when it was done, and its door-flap curled back, showing the snug in-
                        terior. Marie had it closed around the top because its occupant would dare
                        build no fire within. He did not know how far she searched for arm-loads of
                        sweet pine to make him a mattress. They all worked at overlap- ping and
                        fastening the mats. The flat rock she called his table stood near his tent
                        en- trance. Marie lifted from the cove side a fleece of branched moss which
                        nearly covered her, and spread it over his table. Dry, fragrant bits stuck
                        to her wool gown. Her eyes were happy. She had never felt before in such
                        harmony with all things. You could scarcely hear the water lap the beach.
                        There was no intrusion of sound as it rippled.
                    But a pair of eyes which were not happy came stealthily to a rocky buttress,
                        where they could watch as from an upper window the beautiful court below.
                        Their dark and piteous brooding lasted out the afternoon.
                    Many of the Indian-pipes had come to  camp
                        headless, the slim decapitated necks re- proaching their bearers. Marie
                        brought wet sand from the lake, and made a mound for the surviving ones to
                        stand in beside the head of Henry's green couch. She took George to
                        the water's edge, and washed his reluctant face and hands. He
                        whined; the fervor of her lodge-building had given him reason to hope she
                        would forget his face and hands all day, and perhaps until the hour of
                        driving him to that hated spot where she made him bathe.
                    "Now dry yourself in the sun," said Marie.
                    "Poor George!" complained the English boy. "Why
                        brudder not wash too? "
                    "He is older than you," explained Marie. "He knows
                        when to wash without being told."
                    "Poor George! Water so cold."
                    His closed eyelid had always a touching expression of trying to help his
                        single eye plead with any persecutor, and Marie stroked him tenderly,
                        picking bark and moss branches off his clothes.
                    " I will go with you to fill the gourd," she promised, and
                        all his distressed creases in- stantly reversed themselves.
                    
                    Henry came out with the gourd. The beach was made of round stones, which
                        rolled under the foot, and turned walking into a toil if not a danger. The
                        high sun beat upon Marie's cap, and her hair clung to her moist
                        forehead, but she drove the Englishman back.
                    " Monsieur Amde, you must not come out here."
                    "There is n't a canoe on the lake any- where. No one can
                        see me."
                    " I won't permit you to come out, Monsieur
                        Amde."
                    "She queen," said George, turning his thumb back at Marie.
                        " Brudder better mind her; George does. Chief does,
                        too."
                    Henry laughed, not at the undisputed auto- crat, but at his own squawhood.
                        His pliancy to her wishes was what most pleased Marie in the task she had
                        undertaken. The tall leaning saplings laced themselves undisturbed betwixt
                        him and the outer world. At first he sat down in the abundant moss, wishing
                        for a good pipe of Indian tobacco; and then he thought of opening his
                        provisions and spread- ing out the dinner. The earth was silent, for here he
                        missed even the chirping of insects. It seemed so still one could hear a  pine-needle fall; so still the soul's
                        motion could be heard. The sweet, elastic air of the island filled him with
                        vigor. He wondered that this waste of his vigor in a hidden de- pression of
                        the cliff did not annoy him more.
                    Henry was on one knee arraying the vivid green tablecloth with his bark
                        dishes, when a gathering rustle of the lake startled him. It was a hiss and
                        a rush like the disturbance made by many canoes, though without the dip of
                        paddles. He parted the bushes, and looked anxiously out. Often from Fort
                        Michilimackinac he had seen white butterfly- wings of sails blowing across
                        the water or making broken glimmers far off; but now not a thing could be
                        discovered on the strait. The round island opposite, wooded to its edge
                        except that spit of sand which stretched a grappling-hook westward, was by
                        all tokens a deserted place. There was no perceptible change or increase of
                        wind. Henry noticed, however, a roller forming in mid-channel, and sweeping
                        as though tipped toward him. It broke hissing on the pebbles, and the little
                        disturbance was over. Once more the lake was a sapphire pavement scarcely
                        crinkled with iridescent spots. This commotion was  merely its trick in the straits, beginning and ending
                        without apparent cause.
                    When Henry had set the table, he climbed the broad track carpeted with ferns,
                        which led up the amphitheater. Half-way up were three trees sheltering a
                        natural chair of rock, amply carved, and high backed. He carried much dry,
                        vivid-colored moss, and padded it, the drapery overflowing to a foot-rest
                        below. Cups and little trees and branching tendrils of the moss were wonders
                        of beauty. Henry enjoyed them as a barbaric embroidery which he could heap
                        on Marie's chair. The rocky balcony was directly over him, and
                        jealous eyes watched this preparation; watched his neglected golden beard
                        and mustache and clustering hair, and the solicitude and sensi- tive motions
                        of his fingers. Dirty buckskin would not have spoiled the
                        Englishman's supple presence. His dress was substantial and rich,
                        and, in spite of hard usage during his escape and hiding, it remained the
                        dress of a gentleman.
                    Marie and George came to the broad, thin layer of waterfall which they
                        sought; which ran first over a bed of moss, then threaded downward in
                        inch-wide channels, dripped  from rocky shelves
                        upon a terrace, and found ways between rifted rocks to the lake. Dense woods
                        stood above it. And here a sucking and gurgling of the water through
                        pot-holes made Marie lift her hand and George wrinkle himself in
                        apprehension. They both knew what this jerky and fantastic booming was; but
                        she loved the superstition, and the boy frightened himself with it.
                    " Giant fairies! " whispered George.
                    "Yes; they 'll catch us," said Marie, and he
                        bellowed as she seized him to run.
                    Tribute being thus paid to the giant fairies, George straightway forgot them,
                        pulled off his moccasins, and rolled up his trousers, to wade up the steep
                        to the clear tap which he knew Marie preferred.
                    She held the brimming gourd while he sought a flat stone for a seat. One
                        mocca- sin was tied when her outcry of discovery brought him erect.
                    "O George, you are almost sitting on gull's
                        eggs."
                    Three pale-green eggs, spotted with brown, lay on the open beach. They both
                        stooped down and handled the pretty things, holding them up to the sun.
                    
                    "We will roast them," decided Marie, balancing the gourd.
                        "Take this, George. It is I who will carry the eggs."
                    She packed them with leaves in the pouch hanging from her girdle, a brilliant
                        piece of embroidery done in pink and yellow quills by the grandmother.
                    Henry heard the voices of his camp-makers approaching, and the crush of
                        revolving peb- bles, and the girl's scream. She was sup- porting
                        herself on her hands when he ran to her, and George stood fixed, holding the
                        gourd in a trustworthy grip. The boy was trying to see what distress on the
                        lake made Marie weep, and drive to the canoe that very Englishman she had
                        been so anxious to keep under cover. The Englishman found the boat, and
                        flung it unhelped across the beach. A fish-hawk was dragging a robin through
                        the water to drown it. Marie had seen the hawk drop like a stone with its
                        prey, and she stum- bled as she ran for the canoe. The fish-hawk, beaten off
                        by the paddle, left the red-breasted bird, and soared away, indignant at
                        killing prey for big unfeathered creatures, yet satis- fied that its work
                        was well done. The robin was past fluttering when Henry lifted it out  of the water. It was drowned, and its neck was
                        broken. He laid it in the canoe, feeling that this was a tragedy which
                        grosser sights had robbed him of the power to mourn as he should.
                    And it was a delight to be floating upon liquid air. Sunshine lay on the
                        bottom of the lake. Pebbles were glistening money. The shining bed rose
                        deceitful to the very hand, until you dipped a paddle to touch it, and found
                        it was fathoms below. That pale blue medium clarified these depths which
                        dazzles us in the sun-warmed air overhead. Such transparent, sky-born water
                        could be no kin to the frothy surge through which he had paddled for his
                        life two nights before. When Henry drew the canoe on the beach, he saw that
                        Marie was painfully trying to stand. He hurried with the robin in his hand,
                        and put one arm around- her to support her.
                    "I can walk," she declared, her face strained by the
                        effort. "Run in, Monsieur Am6dde, and leave me alone."
                    "You are hurt. I wish I had let the robin go. The fish-hawk drowned
                        it before I could reach it, anyhow."
                    "Let me have the poor thing. O little 
                        bird, how it pained me to see you dragged through the water!"
                    She stood on one foot, and held the robin against her shoulder, smoothing its
                        wet dark feathers.
                    "You must let me help you," said Henry.
                    "I have only bruised my knee. A girl who lives with Chippewas does
                        n't mind that. George has gone for leaves to put on it, and
                        to-morrow it will be well."
                    Marie limped a step or two, and physical anguish whitened her lips. Without
                        further parley Henry lifted her in his arms.
                    "O Monsieur Amidee, you will break the gull's eggs! We want
                        to roast them for our dinner."
                    "Birds and eggs are nothing to me," said the
                        Englishman.
                    He blamed the dead robin; but Marie held it and her pocket up, and guarded
                        them from the boughs. He set her down in the lodge, and turned his back upon
                        the little home- stead, feeling disturbed as by a catastrophe in his family,
                        until George ran whimpering in with some healing plant, and Marie finished
                        her surgery. She looked out of the lodge when free to announce it, and
                        called:
                    
                    "The gull's eggs are safe."
                    "Now I breathe," mocked Henry. "I have kicked
                        about a great deal of moss on account of the gull's
                        eggs."
                    "Oh, but Monsieur Amedde," Marie laughed, "this is
                        not a serious hurt, indeed. It will heal in a few days. You should have seen
                        George's sprained foot. Father Jonois, the priest from
                        L'Arbre Croche, had it in clay, and made him lie still for a
                        week."
                    George stooped down and felt of both his feet. When he identified the one
                        which had been sprained, he crumpled his face with an expression of great
                        suffering, and offered it to Henry to look at.
                    "Give it rest, my son," responded Henry, paternally, and
                        the boy sat down in literal obedience, and took it upon his knee until
                        something else attracted his light attention.
                    Marie crept out of the lodge. The jealous eyes in the balcony saw her lifted
                        again, laughing and startled, but confident in the gentle strength of her
                        bearer, and put in the mossy chair. Her spirit came and went in her face,
                        eagerly remembering mother-fond- lings and mother-care, and wistfully
                        looking forward to some unrealized good. Her little  ears, the shadings of her skin, and the soft rounding
                        of her features tempted as a child's cheek tempts. The island
                        shyness was in her withdrawal from Henry when he would have placed her more
                        to his satisfaction in her chair. But this day, to which two had come from
                        partial isolation in the wilderness, was more effectual than months of
                        ordinary meet- ing and parting.
                    "We must now build the oven, George," directed Marie. So
                        George brought pebbles from the beach, and he and Henry scraped a hollow in
                        the moss and lined it with them. The dryest bits of wood from drift washed
                        high, and bleached in the sun, were put into the hollow. George knew how to
                        start a fire by the Indian method, but when the spark answered his efforts,
                        and was sheltered with cedar boughs, both he and Henry were at much trouble
                        to keep the fire clear so that little smoke would rise to betray the spot.
                        Red coals were soon fading to ashes, and the eggs, wrapped in wet leaves,
                        put under them. It was a long meal, as protracted as some cul- minating
                        feast, and accompanied by guarded talk and laughter. Trivial things were no
                        longer trivial; they had become intensified 
                        life. George, unconscious of his chaperonage, sat picking his egg-shell
                        beside the table. But the Englishman sat near Marie's feet, and
                        told her parts of his experience; conceal- ing, as men do, some of it which
                        direct-gazing eyes like hers might not look at. Yet he had the virginal
                        innocence of young and beauti- ful manhood. This day hinted to him pos-
                        sible harmonies in the dumb instrument of life which he could not interpret.
                        To make wealth had been his best understanding of living; to brave danger
                        and exchange his youth for money. There might, however, be a perfection of
                        existence for which there was no equivalent.
                    A young balsam-fir, small and tough, and as straight as a needle, grew near
                        the table. Marie selected this for a staff, and Henry cut it down and peeled
                        it, carefully removing the branches, which grew in circles around the
                        stem.
                    "George and I will have to take the canoe," she said
                        regretfully. "We brought it here for you; but the trail from the
                        bay will be easier for me."
                    "Let me help you to the lodges," urged Henry.
                    
                    "No; George will help me. The chief left word that you must not risk
                        being seen about the lodges."
                    "When is Wawatam coming back?"
                    "I do not know. We will feed you with the best we have. George and I
                        have a gar- den in the open land at the other side of the island. There may
                        soon be vegetables for you. My salad was out from the ground last week, and
                        I have a bed of little herbs."
                    Henry pictured the boy and girl working in their garden, and felt a homesick
                        desire to follow them to the spot, and see again the plants which answer
                        civilized culture.
                    "I wish I could dig."
                    "Perhaps you may if that strange canoe is really gone, and no other
                        comes."
                    George gathered the fragments of black- ened egg-shell and put them into the
                        oven, and covered the pit of ashes with fir twigs. The day was nearly spent
                        when he held the canoe to the beach and the other two came halting toward
                        it, Marie looking abroad on the lakes and feeling the influence of late
                        afternoon. Accustomed as she was to their changes and misty effects, they
                        gave her beauty at this gazing which they had before  withheld. She stood still between her staff and
                        Henry, and loved them anew. The sun was already behind cliffs, but not
                        swallowed by the water. His warning was bringing stray island birds home.
                        The evening col- ors were not yet created; only a fore-glow hinted what they
                        might be when sunset was complete.
                    The Englishman owned no hat to take off, but he raised his hand to uncover
                        his head as the boat moved away. He and the French girl both smiled, and she
                        admonished him afresh, so he went back through the curtain into the
                        loneliness of his little world. The day spent in the Skull Rock seemed an
                        ex- perience at the beginning of life. He felt sure Wawatam could not send
                        him to Detroit. Savage living meant irregular meals and wild diet, and
                        animal wariness in going about; yet he wondered if he would be domesticated
                        at the lodges when Wawatam came back, and if they should pass the winter on
                        the island.
                    His camp was becoming a pit of gloom, and he thought of putting his
                        provisions in the lodge where he could keep them from small night prowlers.
                        He found rolled up in the pack a deerskin bag holding an en-  tire set of dressing-tools which he had once given
                        his brother Wawatam, who hung them up unused. The joy of a civilized man in
                        brushes overbalanced all Henry's losses. He stood with the bag in
                        his hand, blessing the fraternal impulse which had made him at- tempt to
                        groom his brother, when the top of the green amphitheater populated itself
                        to his dilating sight. Pani, the Indian girl who had concealed him in
                        Langlade's attic, stood up from creeping on her hands and knees.
                        She had appeared as silently in the time of Henry's peril at the
                        fort, and he glanced sharply in every direction, his blood leaping at that
                        peculiar swell and gush of the lake which he knew must be only a ripple.
                    Pani stepped as deftly as a cat down the irregular slope, keeping her eyes on
                        the ground she trod. Nor did she look up when the Englishman met her, asking
                        in haste:
                    "Are the Chippewas coming, Pani?"
                    The Indian girl shook her head. Her arms hung humbly by her sides.
                    " Do you bring news from Michilimacki- nac?"
                    She again shook her head.
                    
                    " Did you come here by yourself?"
                    Pani nodded. The toe of her right moc- casin worked back and forth in the
                        moss.
                    "Then it was your canoe they saw in the bay. And you paddled over
                        alone from the mainland? That's not an easy task, and you took many
                        risks. What made you do such a thing?"
                    She lifted her eyes, and gave him a look which confused his speech. He felt
                        ashamed that his strongest conscious desire was to have this squaw, who
                        saved his scalp, back in Fort Michilimackinac.
                    "I have wished for your blanket, Pani,-- the one I dropped in the
                        attic,--more than once since I came to the island."
                    " I brought it," spoke Pani in imperfect French.
                    "You are a good girl. But I don't need it now.
                        Wawatam's family have built me a lodge, and made me very
                        comfortable."
                    Henry noticed the bronze of her arms in their trinkets of whiter metal, and
                        the coarse, strong threads of her hair. The language of her attitude
                        embarrassed him. He swung the deerskin sack in an uncertain hand, and turned
                             partly away from her, wondering what he
                        should do. Pani spoke again, and the guttural fact which she uttered made
                        him color.
                    "The ghost-flower girl, Wawatam's."
                    "I understand all that, Pani," said the Englishman.
                        "Sit down, will you? You must be tired." No heart could
                        feel more gratitude than his felt; but the droll dismay of a man who
                        unexpectedly finds himself too attractive appeared in his face; and Marie
                        saw it.
                    The wash of her returning canoe he had taken for the ripple. Henry understood
                        why the white children came back in such haste and silence. Behind
                        Marie's face was George's. Her lips were parted to give
                        warning.
                    She was not conscious of spying on the other woman, but studied
                        Pani's errand in- tently, leaning her head sidewise to get a better
                        view betwixt the bushes. This barbaric figure, though coming from the
                        settlement, bore the stamp of the wilderness; as Marie, though inhabiting a
                        wild island, had still the undescribed air of the women of France. The
                        difference between them was more than a dif- ference of race; it was a
                        difference of spirit. But the white girl took no thought of herself  in contrast with this new comer. The cruel
                        amusement of youth appeared in her eyes and at the corners of her mouth. She
                        resented vaguely as in her own person the drooping humility of the Indian
                        girl.
                    Henry exclaimed with too much eagerness when he met her eye:
                    "Mademoiselle, Pani has come over from the fort. This is Pani, the
                        only friend I had when the garrison was killed. She hid me in
                        Langlade's attic."
                    " Does she bring word that any Chippewas are coming?"
                        inquired Marie.
                    " No; she knows of none."
                    " Did the chief send her with any mes- sage?"
                    "Did he, Pani?" said the Englishman, passing the inquiry
                        on. But the reticent en- voy made no reply.
                    " I am afraid she has been about the island hungry since yesterday,
                        for it must have been her canoe you saw."
                    " That is true, monsieur, for we have just found it
                        again."
                    "Can't you take her to the lodges with you?" asked
                        Henry, feeling his brain emit the proposition in a flash.
                    
                    " Certainly," answered Marie, with sincere readiness.
                        "The grandmother will make her very welcome."
                    " Go, then, with mademoiselle, Pani. It was good of you to remember
                        me, and come so far to see if I were safe."
                    " Let us go, Pani," said the French girl's
                        persuasive contralto. " The sun is setting. It will soon be dark in
                        the woods."
                    Pani gave her a slighting glance. The southern Indian's shape rose,
                        the shoulders drawing backward and the aboriginal features rearing
                        themselves; and turning her head toward Henry, she scorned his tame care
                        with the bitterest look he ever encountered.
                    The three Europeans watched her supple back as she mounted the ascent of
                        rocks and ferns. Even George dumbly felt her hurt, and would have restrained
                        her. His one eye remained focused on the pines which closed after Pani until
                        Marie pulled him to the canoe. Reluctantly handling his paddle, he sent the
                        boat out on a pink sheen, reflecting sunset. Rose-colored air softened near
                        cliffs and dis- tant islands. Eastward there was no horizon line, but a
                        concave hemisphere with little par- allel lines of pink vapor drawn across
                        it. A  triangular ripple was broken in the
                        motionless lake by the canoe. Already the arch of rock with its avalanche of
                        waste below was a savage ruin, framing darkness.
                    Henry called once after the boat, but got no reply. He thought of the night
                        woods and an Indian's skulking; and then he felt ashamed of himself
                        for imagining that a gentle and merciful creature like Pani could do harm to
                        any other woman.
                    He sat down in the lodge door, his aimless hand encountering the drowned
                        robin, which Marie had left there. He took it up and stroked the wet
                        feathers, for its little plumes still lay penciled close against its breast;
                        and while he stroked it, his own breast rose and fell with the strong sigh
                        of a man who suffers unconfessed pain.
                
                
                
                    PART III
                        
                        THE RIFT IN THE ISLAND
                    ASHES as soft as down and as fine as the motes which swim unseen in the air
                        blew from a pine fire toward the lodges. There were two of these conical
                        houses, standing near together and facing the west. The space of fairly
                        level grassy land was surrounded by oaks and beeches, which arose in
                        strength, stretching their limbs abroad and making shady arcades all around
                        it.
                    Marie Paul sat on a bench in one of these shadows, her quill-work in her lap,
                        watching the Indian grandmother drag fuel up from the forest. In times past
                        she had put her- self heartily to such tasks when George was not at hand,
                        sparing the aged back which bent to so much labor. But now her gaze at the
                        old woman saw nothing; it was indif- ferent to the outer signs of life. Her
                        languid  head rested against the tree behind
                        her; lace- work of the pine-ashes formed upon her knee without being
                        distorted by a movement. She was conscious of a stifling breath or two as
                        the blue veil was curled around her by the wind. This was the second day
                        Marie had crept to the bench that her Latin prejudices long before caused to
                        be built in the camp. As for Wawatam and his grandmother, they preferred a
                        mat on the ground, and George sat anywhere, with adaptability unusual in his
                        race. But Marie must have a raised seat in the shadow of jutting trees.
                    She listened for George's return. She had trusted him twice with the
                        Englishman's food. The first day George did not find Henry in his
                        camp, and she sent the boy back in the afternoon. Henry had then returned
                        from tramping through the woods.
                    "Brudder lonesome," declared George. "Brudder
                        can't keep still."
                    The squaw pushed her fagot under the pot, and squatted on the windward side
                        of the fire. Her coarse hair hung down her back. A toothless smile opened
                        the puckers in her face as she met the girl's eye. Marie won- dered
                        if her own neck would ever fall into  such
                        leather creases, and the underlying bloom fade and blacken in her skin. A
                        week ago she had looked forward to age as some indifferent change to which
                        she must come with rocks and trees, expecting dignity from hoariness; but
                        now she dreaded the remote robber with unaccountable terror. It was a wicked
                        thing to value her tinted, supple flesh with such passion; Father Jonois
                        would lay penance on her if he discovered this state of mind.
                    "Noko," spoke Marie, using the familiar abbreviation for
                        grandmother, "are you very old?"
                    The Chippewa woman turned her head from side to side mournfully--the
                        universal sign- language of barbarian women when expres- sion fails them.
                        " Old as the summer-maker, my child."
                    Marie no longer cared eagerly for the sum- mer-maker and his kindred
                        myths.
                    "Do you like to be old?"
                    " It cannot be helped. You bear children, you draw wood and dress
                        meat, and the sea- sons pass. It cannot be helped."
                    The fate of aboriginal woman stared Marie in the face. Her black lashes made
                        narrow  lines of her gray eyes as she pondered
                        the sight. By some way she arrived at the inquiry:
                    "Noko, what is your opinion of men? "
                    "They are all the same, on island or main- land, my child. When you
                        are beautiful they kill one another for you; when you are ugly they sneer at
                        you. Two chiefs once fought over me." The squaw laid her arms on
                        her knees and laughed in them at the recollection. "But white
                        men--they are not like red men."
                    "Yes; all the same. Men are men. The more they come soft, humble,
                        creeping the ground like the panther, the more they will eat you up and
                        laugh at you."
                    " Then, Noko, why did the good God make women to believe in them?
                        "
                    "Because the good God knows they can't get along without
                        women."
                    " But there must be some good men, very high above panthers and such
                        things. Is your own grandson a panther? "
                    " No; my grandson he is a good man," an- swered Noko, with
                        tribal jealousy. " Much better than the French or
                        English."
                    " I should like to ask the priest about it;  but there are some things I cannot ask him, no matter
                        how they perplex me. We ought to be old first, Noko, and when we have wis-
                        dom enough, grow young."
                    "Would n't do," said the grandmother, rising to
                        stir the pot. "Never would marry any man at all,
                        then."
                    The savage cast of her copper face, with its prominent nose-arch and
                        cheek-bones, was not repellent. Since coming to the island Marie had made
                        the best of Noko's company. It was scarcely improving; she went to
                        the woods and the saints for society; but it was comforting. The primitive
                        woman is a human hen; such wings as she has are spread to shelter her brood.
                        Noko cooked choice bits for the growing girl, and on sum- mer evenings often
                        sat chanting for her the folk-songs and stories of the Chippewas.
                        Noko's knotted red hands were spared many a hard task by skilful
                        younger ones. The grim but wholesome old heart had indeed but one fondness
                        in its age, and that was not for Wawatam. The grandmother was only proud of
                        him.
                    A phoebe-bird darted calling across the open space, its speck of shadow
                        moving like  a flash. Some comer startled
                        'it from the lower boughs. Marie turned her head, and saw the
                        extended body of a deer rising up the slope, and George's face
                        under it. Henry and Wawatam were behind him, coming to the lodges
                        together.
                    Wawatam called in Chippewa to Noko, who answered him; and George threw the
                        deer down before her. The chief turned toward Marie. From a stalking,
                        stalwart Indian he changed suddenly to an apolo- getic figure in dejected
                        buckskins. She had climbed upon the bench, and held to the tree for support.
                        Her back was toward him and the Englishman. Every soft curve of waist and
                        shoulder was followed by the close gown; half-curls powdered her neck in a
                        short, raveled plume, the hair parting above them in a white track from nape
                        to crown. Immature as it was, this girlish figure had enthralling force
                        which made it a central presence.
                    Henry did not understand why she hid her face. His voice had a piercing
                        appeal as he asked:
                    "What is the matter, mademoiselle?"
                    "The chief knows," answered Marie. "Ask
                        him."
                    
                    "War-kettles boiling at the fort," explained Wawatam in
                        guarded Chippewa to his bro- ther. He put his hand on his mouth. To have the
                        hated feast detected the moment of his return was confusing.
                    "His face looks like a wolf's," said Marie.
                    "But I did not want to taste it," pleaded the enforced
                        cannibal. He cast a glance of wrath at his grandmother, who had revealed
                        that such feasts were held after every Indian victory. It was very
                        unpleasant to have women meddle in tribal politics. Noko and George were in
                        consultation about the deer.
                    "Consider what a poor lot we were at Michilimackinac,
                        mademoiselle," said Henry, recklessly. " If Wawatam has
                        eaten a bite of the garrison to save the trader, he has afflicted himself to
                        little purpose, and is to be pitied."
                    Wawatam's eyes were uneasy, and his usual placid benevolence was
                        driven out of his countenance. He knew that Father Jonois would exact
                        penance from him as a Christian Indian; but what was a Chippewa chief to do
                        when his people boiled the English and made him dip his hand in the kettle
                        as a test of good faith?
                    
                    Marie's trifling with his dignity was the amusement of his life.
                        When she was a year younger she had beaten his shoulders with a balsam stick
                        for presuming to slight some command of hers, and Wawatam had doubled
                        himself over and taken this squaw-drubbing with silent delight. Yet she
                        depended on him as a father, and spoke of him as the chief, never using his
                        name in the careless English fashion. The relations between the
                        Christianized savage and his French foster- child were so natural and
                        guileless that in all her imaginings she had never pictured Wawatam as her
                        lover. There was in her blood no instinct against him except the in- stinct
                        of rating him with George simply as one of her good creatures. Wawatam knew
                        how to fight, how to hunt, and how to manage his fraction of the Chippewas.
                        He could command any unmarried squaw of the tribe to his lodge. And he had
                        thought it would be easy, when the convenient time came, to mention to Marie
                        that they would take the sacrament of marriage together at L'Arbre
                        Croche. Father Jonois did not discourage this plan.
                    "Tell him to go away," said Marie.
                    
                    Wawatam did not understand her English. In camp his entire family spoke
                        Chippewa. He turned for interpretation to Henry, the wrinkles at his
                        eye-corners drawn down by a sinister look. Henry felt it was a climax in his
                        experience when he was forced to mediate between an elected bride and a
                        cannibal hus- band from whom she hid her face. He had seen her moving like a
                        bird through the wil- derness, a part of it and its free life. Disgust for
                        all the conditions which hamper existence here filled him with sudden desire
                        for death. He wondered at his hiding and his pains to prolong such
                        contemptible misery.
                    "She says she wants you to go away."
                    Wawatam spoke angrily to Marie in Chip- pewa:
                    "Why must I go away? Is it because the Pani woman has been here and
                        brought me a message?"
                    "Do you mean the Pani woman who came to monsieur's camp?
                        She did not take a mes- sage. And if I had sent you one, would you have
                        heeded it any more than you did the priest, who must be at Michilimackinac
                        now? "
                    The abjectness of a smitten conscience re- turned upon Wawatam. He said in
                        gutturals  under his breath, "The Pani
                        woman was a fool!"
                    " I am a very bad man," he acknowledged, taking Henry into
                        new confidence with twin- kles of the eye.
                    "You are so bad that I cannot endure to look at you. You are so bad
                        I am afraid no saint will intercede for you. Go into the woods and
                        fast."
                    " But if the chief begins a fast now he will leave his brother in
                        danger."
                    "Why did you bring him here if there is danger?"
                    "My brother is safest where I am."
                    "But why have you come?"
                    "The best trail leads past the lodges."
                    "What is the danger?"
                    "A band of warriors have come from De- troit. He is the only
                        Englishman left. They told me they must have him."
                    There was silence in camp. George lolled on the ground at a distance,
                        watching the grandmother's skilful knife as she skinned the deer.
                        The sun was warm on his back, and his hair showed glints like gold-stone. He
                        would never be lashed by the mysterious tides of his own spirit.
                    
                    "What are you going to do?" asked Marie. She had not yet
                        turned her face from the tree.
                    " Going to put him in a canoe to go to Sault Ste.
                        Marie."
                    " When?"
                    " Now."
                    "Does the chief go with him?"
                    " No; it is in Madame Cadotte's boat that he will
                        go."
                    "Where is it now? "
                    "Coming from Michilimackinac to take him off on the west side of the
                        island."
                    Marie knew without explanation that this would be the safest place for Henry
                        to em- bark. There was a sandy, level beach where the water was deep enough
                        to allow the approach of even a sailing vessel, which could then move on
                        unobserved around the north- ern shore toward the Sault. She had once seen
                        Madame Cadotte, the Indian wife of the Frenchman who was called chief of all
                        the Indians around the Sault.
                    Rapid Chippewa questions and answers escaped Henry, anxious as he was to
                        under- stand them.
                    "But if other canoes meet them, will he not be seen? "
                    
                    "No matter," answered Wawatam; "he is a Canadian
                        now, like the Canadians that row for Madame Cadotte."
                    Marie half turned herself and looked at Henry. He was so changed that she
                        won- dered how she had been sure of his pres- ence when he and Wawatam were
                        ascending the slope together. Some of his own gar- ments were discarded, and
                        he wore in their place the blanket coat of ordinary Canadians, and like them
                        had a handkerchief knotted around his head. His face was clean shaven, and
                        it gave her through every revealed line, and through fixed eyes, the silent
                        passion and longing which had already grown mighty under repression. That
                        chemistry of the spirit which draws two irresistibly together, through
                        space, through obstacles, through time,--which may work anguish to both, but
                        must work because they exist,--kept these young creatures an instant
                        conscious of nothing but each other. Marie resisted it. She sometimes had
                        such intimations of happi- ness when lying in the woods with her head beside
                        a bunch of Indian-pipes, or when a height was hooded with thunder-clouds
                        while the beaches flashed in the sun. The joy was like a recollection of
                        heaven; blessed-  ness came near; you could not
                        account for it. She thought it had come oftener when she was a child. But
                        her capacity for it grew. Every atom of her body glowed with intense life.
                        She hid her face against the tree.
                    Wawatam's features hardened. Any man but his English brother might
                        have died for such a look. His natural hatred of Anglo- Saxon stock urged
                        him to feel for the scalp- lock on that golden head. But he was bound by
                        visions and traditions stronger in his spirit than the Christian religion to
                        keep in safety the man of his adoption. He said to himself in Chippewa,
                        "It is the chief and not the Pani woman that was a
                        fool."
                    " Come on," he said curtly to Henry.
                    The trader, conscious of the offense he had given, yet drew a long, reluctant
                        breath.
                    "Good-by, mademoiselle."
                    "Good-by, Monsieur Flix."
                    "Heavens! Flix!" Henry drew another deep
                        breath.
                    " It will not be Amidee until afternoon."
                    "In the afternoon I shall be far from the island."
                    " Poor Monsieur Flix! "
                    
                    "Thank you, mademoiselle, for your thou- sand kindnesses to me. I
                        blame myself for the hurt you got on the beach."
                    "What a tender conscience you have, monsieur!" She was no
                        longer his careful mother, but a mocking creature, giving him one laughing
                        look over her shoulder. "It was the fish-hawk."
                    "I hope your lameness is cured."
                    "The only thing that hurts me now, mon- sieur, is that the chief
                        killed gulls to make my feather dress, instead of fish-hawks."
                    "Then you have a dress of gull-feathers?"
                    "Yes; it turns rain."
                    "You wore it by the fireplace on the beach the night I came to the
                        island?"
                    "Yes, monsieur. The chief was a long time collecting breasts. And
                        when he brought them to me I cried--that so many birds should die to cover
                        me. If I but had a cap to match it now," added Marie, drolly.
                    "The French have tender hearts," mocked Henry.
                    "It is true, Monsieur Flix. They never desire the death of any one.
                        It is not neces- sary for them to recite from their prayer- books as the
                        English do, when the priest  says,
                        'Thou shalt do no murder'--'Lord, have mercy upon
                        us, and incline our hearts to keep this law.'"
                    She mimicked the congregational chant, and Henry laughed aloud. Wawatam was
                        in the tense attitude of his forefathers watching an enemy from ambush. When
                        her voice mocked and Henry laughed the chief's face relaxed. He
                        picked up Marie's quill-work from the ground, and, before laying it
                        beside her, passed his fingers along the shining stitches, as one might try
                        some chord which would not vibrate. Living two years under the thumb of a
                        French islander had bred softer practices in him than he cared to have his
                        braves see.
                    "I wish I could do some service for you, mademoiselle,"
                        said Henry.
                    They were parting forever. And why should they not part forever who had seen
                        each other less than a brief week? Lakes, and land, and perils, time and
                        silence, would crowd between them. The summer day was perfect around them,
                        the sun turning shadows black on a vividly lighted earth.
                    " Good-by, mademoiselle," repeated Henry.
                    "Good-by, Monsieur Flix," she answered, keeping her back
                        to him.
                    
                    "Will you give me your hand?"
                    Marie extended a hand behind her.
                    "That is the left one."
                    She gave him the other, and it lay unre- sponsive in his while he wrung
                        it.
                    "Are you angry with me?"
                    "Oh, no, Monsieur Flix."
                    "I have missed you these two days. I 'm very glad I found
                        you on the island," blun- dered the man. " It has been a
                        pleasure; I hope you will be happy."
                    "No more time," said Wawatam.
                    Henry kissed the round and childish hand. He was permitted by the usage of
                        the times to do that. Wawatam had seen officers at the fort kiss Madame
                        Cadotte's hand, for she was a woman greatly respected. Marie felt
                        the touch of lips. She let her hand fall as he turned away, and stood still
                        with her face toward the tree.
                    Bushes stirred as Henry and Wawatam brushed through them on the direct trail
                        to the western landing. Wawatam bade George, as he passed that happy boy, go
                        back through the woods and watch for Indians from the fort.
                    "What do with them?"
                    
                    " Nothing. Bring word back to the lodges."
                    Reluctant to leave the deer, George's back- ward looks dwelt with
                        it, and not with the men. But Noko lifted herself from the quar- tering, and
                        watched the Englishman out of sight. The trees soon received him, and she
                        was not sorry. He had a handsome white face, and eyes which looked through
                        you with an in- fluence like the moon. Marie had relieved her old bones from
                        tramping to his haunts with his food, and she hoped her grandson was now
                        taking him off for a long hunt. The less one saw even of adopted Englishmen
                        the better.
                    "Watch Indians," said George, making a half circuit of the
                        bench to face Marie, and intimating that he waited for his usual com-
                        panionship.
                    Marie gave him a smile of the lips, and picked bark from the tree, letting it
                        fall on fungus that spread a pink umbrella between the oak's roots:
                        many bits glanced off, but one balanced itself and resisted efforts to dis-
                        place it.
                    "Chief says watch Indians," repeated George.
                    
                    "Bring my stick and cap from the lodge," said Marie.
                    George brought them, and stood like a young bear on his hind feet while she
                        let her- self down from the bench. He would have dropped on all fours and
                        made himself a step- ping-stone, had any other mind given him the impetus.
                        The two went down the trail toward the beach. As soon as they were below the
                        level of the grandmother's vision, Marie paused in her limp, and
                        said:
                    "You watch the bay while I watch the woods."
                    George's face fell into creases of distress. " George all
                        alone," he complained. "George all alone
                        twice."
                    " But I cannot run with you now. I am a hundred years old, like
                        Noko."
                    George still squirmed, his red face having the blank yet wrathful expression
                        of a wilful baby's.
                    "Very good. Take me with you then. But you must carry me,"
                        said Marie.
                    George had carried her up from the bay the night of her accident. He
                        remembered the strain, their long rests, Marie's vain efforts to
                        help herself, and his exhaustion  when they
                        reached the lodges. His loose and fleshy body had not the muscular
                        compactness of Wawatam's or the mature strength of
                        Henry's. He yielded, and went on alone with his rolling gait,
                        looking back as long as he could see her.
                    Marie turned around the base of the camp, and put her halting limb to
                        reckless use. She knew short cuts among the pines, and ven- tured many
                        before untried. She flung herself through mats of juniper in the open places
                        as a Highlandman crosses streams. In times past Marie had loved to test her
                        endurance by long journeys afoot, and labors about the camp. It was sweet to
                        work to the point of exhaustion, and then throw herself on her bed of
                        hemlock and blankets, and sleep as the rocks sleep. Her vitality was so full
                        that every awakening from sleep became a new birth. She ran out as rosy as
                        Aurora under the morning sky, her flesh tingling with the delight of being
                        alive. But this haste she was making to cross the island had none of the
                        laughter of youth in it. The regular sweep of the muscles which becomes a
                        silent music, and makes of walking a graceful and glorious function, was
                        lost to her as she panted  along. Last week a
                        goddess moved from beach to headland as freely as the light; to-day a
                        limping girl, pallid with the effort, tried to reach the north shore before
                        Madame Cadotte's boat should pass by. She had no reason for wishing
                        to see Madame Cadotte's boat; but when one has sat still awhile, it
                        becomes impossible for one to sit still any longer.
                    The high land sloped gradually to alluvial stretches in the direction which
                        Henry and Wawatam had taken, but Marie climbed di- rectly down a hillside so
                        steep that she was obliged to hold to trees and the knotty earth itself. She
                        missed her hold, and slid danger- ously, but the scratching and bruising did
                        not detain her an instant. Near the bottom she noticed that her balsam staff
                        was no longer in her hand. It was not worth the hard ascent, yet she climbed
                        back in panting haste, and found it lodged in a bunch of fern. A stout stick
                        could have been broken below with half the pains.
                    The sun stood overhead as she hurried through the lower forest. Her course
                        was as nearly straight as the eye could direct it, and she came to the lake
                        in time to see a boat  with sails set getting
                        beyond the eastern shore of the island. Flecks of red like the
                        kerchief-bound heads of Canadians glimmered against the white. No other
                        visible thing moved on Lake Huron.
                    It might not be Madame Cadotte's boat. Marie sat on the rocks,
                        watching eastward and westward until she lost it, and nothing else appeared
                        on the void. A wind which she had not noticed in her rapid journey made
                        indigo stripes across the water. There was a low roar as of little falls.
                        Though white- fringed rollers ran before the wind, some clouds made flat,
                        moving islands of their shadows. Overhead the light dazzled.
                    Moving from rock to rock, Marie waited along the beach. Jaded, and dragging
                        her limb, she came to a remembered bluff. Some impulse of the wild things
                        among which she had lived drove her to a hole under the bluff. It was
                        necessary to descend among fragments of rock, and to stoop down to find it.
                        She carried with her such moss as offered, and crept through a tunnel which
                        led her into a high cavern. Water trickled from above through the place. She
                        made herself a divan of the moss in the driest spot, lying  recklessly at length, her head on her arm, hidden
                        from the light of day.
                    The life of the woods and the hissing of the lake were shut out. Her
                        consciousness extended only as far as the water trickling down her cell.
                        Scarcely a glimmer of light came through the tunnel, for its mouth was sunk
                        below the beach. Marie turned once in the afternoon, and changed the arm on
                        which she lay. Time's divisions were lost; she had come upon the
                        eternal now. Yet so much is the spirit in the body's keeping that
                        her stupor passed to sleep, and she lay in that sweet death until forced to
                        a numb resurrec- tion. "Nothing matters," said Marie when
                        she roused.
                    The lake was a sea of glass and fire, and the hush of summer night was
                        already in the woods. The Detroit Indians might have crossed from
                        Michilimackinac and scattered themselves in search over the island. Dew
                        dampened her hair and the soles of her moc- casins. The rapid fluttering of
                        scarcely seen bats grazed her cheek. She kept repeating with dull
                        conviction, "Nothing matters now."
                    Wawatam was not at the lodges when this limping figure arrived about
                        moonrise. Noko  and George were squatted in
                        amiable silence by the kettle, watching a fragrant yellow fire lick its
                        sides. Odors of venison and herbs came to Marie's nostrils. She had
                        not eaten since morning, and, creeping to the outdoor hearth, she sat down
                        with her family, laying her staff beside her.
                    This was the hour when Noko told Chip- pewa legends; but she did not speak a
                        word. Some older story-teller was busy with Marie. George waited only for
                        his supper. When Marie sat down in the night camp she never had the degraded
                        feeling of herding with bar- barians. These good creatures were her
                        household. She often dipped out the mess for Noko, and restrained
                        George's animal greediness. Clean birch platters were kept in
                        readiness, and she had for herself a knife and spoon which Wawatam bought at
                        the fort. The others preferred to use their fingers. To-night the
                        grandmother filled Marie's bowl from the general dish and brought
                        her knife and spoon. George was left to gulp unrestrained except when Noko
                        hit him on the back to keep him from chok- ing. Marie sat and looked at the
                        fire, where beautiful embers crumbled, and ate her food  without tasting it. The moon was white and large. It
                        threw shadows of the Indian wo- man and George, and the dish between them,
                        and a fainter shadow of Marie, across the smoldering log.
                    Those usual inmates of northern lodges, the silent dogs, were lacking in
                        Wawatam's camp. None of them were running about the island, on
                        account of Marie's abhorrence. They were not like the bluff,
                        loud-mouthed mastiffs with which French children played, but uncanny,
                        wolfish things, never seeking a caress, and springing voiceless out of
                        thick- ets. Wawatam kept his dogs in another camp. They could find their
                        wild living in the woods, whether led by a master or their instincts.
                    Marie crept into her lodge and dropped its flap. She took off her blanket
                        gown, and put on another in which she slept, and combed and freshly plaited
                        her hair. She had a pil- low on her bed, a thing Noko despised. It was made,
                        though, only of the dried needles of sweet pine sewn into a piece of coarse
                        linen. Beside the high mattress was spread a skin on which she stood.
                        Noko's bed was at the opposite arc of the lodge. No moon-  light came through the mats, but a glim- mer
                        from the hole at the top rested on her head. Marie took her crucifix, which
                        hung from a rib in the sloping wall, and lay down in her bed, holding it,
                        and uttering no prayer but the dumb one of misery. She watched the poles
                        intersecting the fragment of dark blue sky at the top of the lodge, tilting
                        her head back on its pillow. Her knee felt stiff.
                    "This must be what the priest calls immortality," whispered
                        Marie. "You can- not die."
                    She turned on her hard mattress, and re- solved: "I will bathe in
                        the lake early, while the water is cold. That will drive this strange
                        feeling away."
                    She heard Wawatam in the camp, giving a string of fish to his grandmother. He
                        had been out all the afternoon in his canoe. His returning without Indian
                        followers was a dull satisfaction to her. Yet when a whiter pallor than the
                        moon's showed between the lodge-poles, she put on her moccasins in
                        haste to escape from camp, took her clothes and the thick linen towel which
                        was kept for her use alone, and limped off toward the  natural arch of rock. The dewy tents still swam in
                        uncertain darkness. The sweet- scented earth gave back the old joy of morn-
                        ing to Marie. Crumpled mist arose, floating, and letting itself be wound
                        slowly aloft. There was a steep descent to the lake under- neath the stone
                        arch, where a long avalanche had once fallen. Marie let herself down this
                        rough stair to her bath. The limpid ex- panse of water increased the light.
                        She could see as far as the well-known trees in front of Henry's
                        deserted camp; but she turned her back on that place, and stripped for the
                        plunge. Nothing was abroad to see her but the morning star. Her feet shud-
                        dered in the shallow water. She waded out and knelt, throwing herself
                        forward and turn- ing with a splash. The blue drippings of a glacier could
                        be no colder. Streaming from crown to heel, her body the color of a rose,
                        she ran behind a rock covered with pine shrubs, and polished her flesh to
                        marble firm- ness. It was a delight to feel the blood pal- pitate against
                        her very garments when she was clothed, and to climb the height like a
                        giantess. The bruise on her knee felt this revival.
                    
                    "Nothing ails me," exulted Marie aloud to the stirring
                        birds; " I can plunge where Indian women dare not."
                    A family of mushrooms, their white, fleshy umbrellas half furled, waited
                        beside her path, and she gathered every one. They would have to be skinned
                        and salted, and soaked all day; but by night they could be wrapped in
                        deer-meat with a husk of clay over that, and put under the coals to gather
                        all the venison's juices. She was proud to feel an interest in the
                        food-supply of the camp. "But if I had found them when monsieur was
                        here," said Marie; and she stood still, her face changing.
                    The camp-fire lifted its delicate blue shaft straight to the zenith. George
                        was helping Noko broil fish on some stones, and a bowl of sagamite was set
                        out for the morning meal.
                    Wawatam had put on his best dress. The beaver robe which he wore only at
                        councils was gathered around him and thrown over one arm like a Roman toga,
                        showing the feather-work of his leggings and the rich em- broidery of his
                        tunic. He paraded himself across the plateau as Marie entered the camp,  though through all his dignity the childlike
                        savage betrayed a gauntness and anxiety of visage. She busied herself with
                        the mush- rooms. The amenities of civilized life he never imitated; but
                        Marie usually said good day to him, and he stopped beside her aggres-
                        sively. Wawatam despised mushrooms as food for men. The red lines in his
                        face expressed disdain of such employment as he said:
                    "Put on your best dress."
                    Marie was startled.
                    "Do you hold a council on the island?"
                    " No. Go to L'Arbre Croche."
                    "I do not want to go to L'Arbre Croche to-day. It was only
                        last month that I went to confession."
                    "Father Jonois will marry you."
                    "Father Jonois marry me? He cannot."
                    "He will."
                    "But no priest can be a husband."
                    "Myself," said Wawatam, slapping his breast; "I am
                        the husband."
                    Marie threw her braids behind her shoul- ders, and restrained him by a
                        sidewise turn of the eye.
                    "I will not go to L'Arbre Croche with the
                        chief."
                    
                    Her barbaric guardian did not know what abhorrence maids lavish on undesired
                        suitors. In one instant he changed from her friend on whom she depended, and
                        to whom she de- ferred, into a detestable pursuer. More than that, he robbed
                        her of what he was before; and there was no other man on earth to take care
                        of her. Wawatam, like the wolf-boy, saw his new shape himself, and he
                        accused her in a guttural snarl.
                    " You would go with my English brother to L'Arbre Croche.
                        You would be wife to him."
                    " I would not! " Her whole body flashed at Wawatam.
                        " I would not be a wife at all. And you who have neither fasted nor
                        prayed since eating man's flesh--do you think that Father Jonois
                        would give the sacrament of marriage to you?"
                    Frontier priests were obliged to make the conditions of religion as easy as
                        they dared for their wild flock; but he knew she was right. Father Jonois
                        would not give him the sacrament of marriage until he had done pen- ance for
                        that sin detested in the committing. It was very hard to be a Chippewa chief
                        and a baptized Christian, the brother, more. 
                        
                            "BUT NO PRIEST CAN BE A HUSBAND."
                        
                         over, of an adopted Englishman, when that
                        Englishman was doubtless his supplanter.
                    Wawatam said nothing more, and after his breakfast went into his lodge. At
                        the un- trammeled Chippewa breakfast the chief sat on a mat outside his
                        family circle. When Marie was hanging the blankets of her lodge to air, she
                        saw him in his hunting-buckskins going down toward the bay. The subdued
                        determination of his stride denoted that he was seeking his spiritual
                        counselor.
                    George hesitated between Marie and the chief, his dull mind apprehending some
                        change in his playmate, as well as an altered temper in Wawatam. He followed
                        his adopted father at a distance, hoping to share the voyage to
                        L'Arbre Croche, yet loath to give up his daily haunts on the
                        island. Wa- watam saw him and beckoned to him. The weak one of the
                        household, making this dumb plea for companionship, was a comfort under the
                        circumstances.
                    Marie brought wood for the grandmother. When Noko had no heavy labor she sat
                        cross- legged on a mat, busying herself with the needlework of Indian women.
                        Sometimes she trudged to the edge of the island, digging  roots in the woods. Usually, however, she spent her
                        leisure soaking in the sunlight while she sang in a monotonous whine, with
                        the rising and falling abruptness of barbaric music, the songs of the
                        Chippewas. When one touched Noko from without she re- sponded shrewdly; but
                        she knew the dignity of reticence and solitude. Marie was not afraid of
                        being questioned by her.
                    When enough sticks were accumulated near the log which made their
                        chimney-back, Marie went farther into the woods. Early morning was gone when
                        she stood beside the rift in the island, though here it was twilight at
                        noon. A drift of aged leaves had blown from the north for many a winter, and
                        partly filled this crack in the island's surface. Its scar extended
                        as far as the eye could follow, and its moss-clothed sides went mysteriously
                        down into earth's darkness. Marie once descended within the gap,
                        and caught her foot in an angle of the rocks below. Such gigantic lips in
                        the ground's face were a strange spectacle. They threatened to yawn
                        and snap a curious gazer in.
                    Marie walked along the verge to a place narrow enough for her to leap across.
                        Not  far beyond the rift stood a white birch
                        like a marble temple. Its central pillar was massive, and delicate arches
                        spread a drapery of foliage far and wide. There was not such another
                        birch-tree on the island. The high ground on which it stood fell abruptly to
                        a hollow at one side. Marie descended into this little valley, and knelt
                        before the vision under the roots of the tree: a cavern of rock tufted with
                        fern and velvet lichen; the most beautiful grotto that ever enshrined an
                        image. It struck the sight like a miracle. The mighty birch flourished
                        overhead, its bank of turf roofing this glittering cell. Nor was the image
                        lacking. It stood on a shelf of the rock, a small plaster Virgin, which had
                        been given to her by the priest for her chapel in the wilderness.
                        Marie's last offering, some withered flowers in a basket of scented
                        grass, stood on the cavern floor. The pitiful image, weather-stained by its
                        western exposure, lost its immobility and swam before her eyes as she
                        remembered the roving child who put that basket there. Her own hands,
                        clasped upon her beads, were strange and far-away mem- bers--the hands of a
                        girl that lived last week without any knowledge of pain, and vanished.  Her features took a wan tint from the dim-
                        ness of that holy place, and her mouth trem- bled at beginning a personal
                        invocation.
                    "O Mother of God, take this feeling away from me. Why has it come
                        upon me? I have tried to be a good girl. Here is my dear staff, that I lay
                        down as an offering to thee. Ever-blessed, I have such sinful love for this
                        staff that I slept with it laid across my breast."
                    Marie covered her face with both hands, the rosary dangling from her fingers,
                        and leaned forward until her braided hair lay upon the ground. "I
                        will say that he is a heretic, he is a heretic, he is a heretic-but, O
                        Mother Immaculate, he is the gentlest man I ever saw in my life! I shall
                        never see him again--but give him to me--" she threw herself
                        backward, breaking through media- tion, and tearing at heaven itself with
                        uplifted hands and a cry as strong as the throes of birth, " O God,
                        give him to me--you must-- I shall die! "
                    The tiny image on the shelf, the rustling birch, and the woods around her,
                        were gone, and she was in infinite space wrestling with the master passion
                        of the world, and learn- ing that invisible things only are of account  in this life. The human instinct of hiding
                        passion kept her terrible weeping silent. And presently, exhausted by this
                        prayer of an- guish, and daring to look no more at the im- maculate image,
                        she fled limping from her chapel and lay down beside the rift.
                    On the opposite bank of the chasm a phoebe-bird alighted, turning its head
                        in- quisitively and considering her limp figure. It took its joy on the
                        island untouched by any human anguish.
                    "I used to be like that," thought Marie, as the bird darted
                        away. She felt deserted by companions, who found her no longer of their
                        kind.
                    Her denial of love, her panting journeys, and manual labor to get rid of it,
                        were ended as soon as that prayer to Almighty God burst from her soul. He
                        knew what had happened to her. The saints and her mother knew. There was no
                        use fighting it any longer. She was to live or die by this unconquerable
                        force. Once Marie had wanted to be a saint, but now she greedily desired to
                        be a happy wo- man. And this was a strange thing: that one should come, and
                        look, and possess. She had seen officers from the fort in their scarlet  coats without giving them a second glance.
                        They were objects on a landscape.
                    Marie stared across the rift as if her eyes could penetrate woods and
                        water-mists to the Sault. That light which falls on the spot where
                        one's beloved stands, leaving the rest of the world in twilight,
                        and hallows his coun- try, giving it the sanctity of a shrine, now rested
                        there. She did not know the world had come to her until it went away. To be
                        where he was seemed the only good. With rapture she saw again the hopeless
                        passion in Henry's eyes when he left her. "You are
                        mine," whispered Marie through space to the secret ear of that
                        other soul who must harken. Her hands and feet were cold, her muscles were
                        knotted, her face was white with the stress of this secret cry,
                        "Come back to me! You must come back. My life is gone out of me.
                        There is something the matter with the island. It has changed. You are the
                        island to me now."
                    She let her face slip over the edge of the rift, where cool, dark moss could
                        send up its breath to her, and the rock give her palpitat- ing temple a
                        reminding touch. The woods calmed her, their grays and greens and inter-  lacing density of stems, and their whisper of
                        a secret which has lasted from the founda- tion of the world, replacing her
                        fever with a kind of beatitude. Power to project herself into the future was
                        gone. Love is itself eter- nity. She took no interest in what might happen.
                        The one fact of the universe was present with her. That primal instinct of
                        young creatures to believe in and make a religion of the human being they
                        love is one of the best and saddest traits of humanity.
                    A chill grew in the air. Marie felt it, but she no longer resisted the
                        warfare made against us by inanimate things.
                    "Why did I hide myself from him the last day he spent on the
                        island?" she asked her- self, finding no answer. "And why
                        did I laugh at that poor Pani woman? It is her turn to laugh at me now. But
                        I would rather die by fire than let it be seen in my face."
                    Days and months must pass, and a mes- sage for which she could not help
                        looking might never come from him. She would go to confession with
                        concealment in her soul. " I cannot endure it," said
                        Marie, sitting up in the darkening twilight. Then she remem- bered the
                        chief's sudden proposal to marry  her
                        at L'Arbre Croche that morning. Father Jonois could forbid it; but
                        who would teach her how to bear her invisible bereavement? She felt sorry
                        for the chief with a tenderness which was not in her before she came to her
                        knees at the tree.
                    A drop of rain fell on Marie's forehead. The white birch showed its
                        marble limbs against gathering blackness. The east wind came on with a roar,
                        bending little trees, and Marie knew that the lake looked as she had often
                        seen it in a rainstorm, a dark yellow green, seeming to have sulphur in its
                        depths; and that the sky above it descended in ver- tical strata, becoming
                        one with it. In other times she would have run the intervening distance to
                        see the lake during this distur- bance, dashing out to a cliff, wet and
                        bright- eyed.
                    The woods grew dark with a steady down- pour, and on the churning strait
                        zigzag tracks and curvings, such as currents leave on an ice-field, could be
                        seen, changing as flaws of wind veered here and there. The air was raw; and
                        when night came, autumn descended on the midsummer island. It was so chill
                        that the eye suspected frozen spray upon the 
                        pebbles, and the white cliffs had a wintry look under beating rain. At
                        midnight the blast was roaring against all the leaves in the up- lands, and
                        the pines tuned themselves to that high song they sing when the wind blows
                        ice-laden from Labrador. It seemed impos- sible that summer could return,
                        and incred- ible that she was there, huddling her million blooms, and
                        cowering under this whip of the northeast. The change in the weather was a
                        period set to life which had gone before it. Nothing could be again exactly
                        as it had been before this chill came on the world. The icy breath was pure,
                        but it blew the glamour off the island.
                    Nearly a week of squaw-winter crowded it- self into the heart of June. All
                        day a drizzle fell, and gray clouds dragged on the water, or tore themselves
                        against headlands. The strait was a flume, hissing toward the head of Lake
                        Michigan. Discomfited birds sat in shelter, calling sometimes to one another
                        with a note like the cricket's. In the night the complaints of wild
                        things could be heard.
                    Wawatam and George stayed at the fort, leaving the women of the camp to live
                        on such food as had been accumulated. On the sixth  day a slate-colored sky, cold and smooth, spread over
                        the Great Turtle, unable to dull the new tints he had acquired. For the
                        frost spirit had breathed fire, and hints of splendor appeared on masses of
                        trees. Life warmed itself gradually, coming out of eclipse. East- ern
                        islands, miles distant, showed their blue bars. In one place a
                        boat's hull appeared, masts and sails lost in falling mist. In an-
                        other a spot like a sun-dog shone on the water in the midst of opaque
                        dullness, or it became a plate of copper moving across the lake. The clouds
                        broke about sunset, and a mountain stood one third the height of the eastern
                        sky. At the top a volcano of color burst out. The crater was a wide lap of
                        fire. Rosy fog, changing its tints and pallors every minute, glorified all
                        the northern world.
                    Across the iridescent pink water, and mag- nified by luminous air, came a
                        procession of Indian canoes, avoiding the opposite sand- spit, and beaching
                        themselves in the bay. Always superstitious of life on the island, the
                        ascending savages saw, though they said nothing to one another about, those
                        brands of autumn color on a summer world. Noko's fire blazed, but
                        she was somewhere in the  woods, having felt
                        the vigor of breaking up a winter camp revive within her after the east
                        storm.
                    Marie sat alone in the lodge in her dress of gull-feathers. She had worn it
                        during the wet days. Her braids hung over her bosom, touching the dejected
                        face on each side, a fuzz of curling ends following their outlines with the
                        distending effect of light. She was changed and deep-eyed. The winter week
                        had ripened her. Marie had looked into that abyss of unaccomplished evil
                        which some- times appals saints in themselves. She who had laughed at the
                        prayer against murder wished the chief would die. After prayers, and in her
                        sleep, and at waking, that recur- ring potentiality still thrust itself into
                        her mind--"Something may happen to the chief to-day."
                        During the wet week there was nothing to do. She sat and moved the
                        search-light of thought over her relations to the two men, Englishman and
                        Chippewa. It was not hard for Marie to divine the chief's claiming
                        her to Henry. She was Wawatam's squaw, whom gratitude forbade Henry
                        ever to see again. She could appeal to Father Jonois; but the chief had
                        fraternal claims  upon her which must trouble
                        her as long as he lived. It really seemed best that he should die. His dying
                        would not bring her love back to her, but it would lift from her the
                        responsibility for his unhappiness. Noko and George would be readily enough
                        adopted by other members of the tribe. Then she could enter some sisterhood,
                        and one of her pen- ances would be for wishing that this very convenient
                        thing would happen. Yet as often as it recurred to her she was full of
                        terror at herself. The chief had made her the queen of his island world. No
                        lonesomest and lof- tiest soul has kept itself from lapping edges with and
                        being worked upon by the power or weakness of fleshly housed neighbors. In-
                        visible lines mesh and restrain, or draw and distort, every one of us. The
                        selfish and brutal break through, but fine and tender na- tures own the
                        responsibility and endure the bondage as their part in the redemption of the
                        world.
                    Once during the storm Marie had gone to the height above Henry's
                        camp. She could not bring herself to descend into the amphi- theater. The
                        darkness of winter was lapped up in its glacial greenness. She saw her  chair of rock; the wind had torn the moss
                        cushions away, and heaped them on the place where he had sat at her feet.
                        There was a story in the tribe of an Indian girl who had flung herself from
                        a rock on the south cliff because her lover went away and never re- turned.
                        Marie had laughed at that story. " I did not then know,"
                        she muttered, look- ing at the deserted lodge. Its mats dripped with slow,
                        creeping rain. The seasons would pass over it, dropping it piecemeal.
                        " I will never come here again," she gasped, and ran
                        through the pine woods.
                    While this mysterious force worked in her she lay on her bed of nights in a
                        waking trance, silent and nerveless, yet calling with compelling might to
                        the man who had left her. The blood of her French ancestry-- wine and fire
                        which have sparkled and burned through centuries among the slower nations
                        --made her swiftly a woman. She was the ghost-flower, sprung tall and
                        lucent, a white flame of passion, in a night. " I would rather die
                        because I cannot have him," thought Marie, "than never to
                        have seen him at all."
                    The arriving multitude of Indians swarmed upon the plateau before Marie knew
                        they  were on the island. Strange warriors ap-
                        peared among the Chippewas. The aborigi- nal visage, evasive and demon-like,
                        was mul- tiplied many times in the crowd. Totems unknown to her were
                        tattooed on naked breasts and arms, while nearly all the digni- taries of
                        the tribe stalked into view. Squaws carrying children on their backs, and
                        hav- ing in their faces either the hopelessness of drudgery or the
                        broad-cheeked look of hon- est beasts, defiled in silent rows behind their
                        masters.
                    The hideous medicine-man was there, with moose-horns bound on his head, and
                        his skin glistening with decorations as the moving body of a snake glistens.
                        Marie looked away from him, and saw Wawatam coming to the lodges. She hid
                        herself at the head of her bed, pulling one of her blanket gowns over her.
                        He called to her in Chippewa, and also to his grandmother; but after
                        stooping a moment at the lodge door, went away, evi- dently satisfied that
                        the lodge was vacant. When Marie ventured to look out again, George crossed
                        that triangle of the plateau which the opened flap described. He had the
                        jocund leer of a tipsy faun, or any soul- 
                        less animal made to take brandy in its food with astonishing and uplifting
                        results. The pink of his skin was inflamed to higher color. Little hairs,
                        long grown about his masculine chops, showed themselves with a new ten-
                        dency to bristle. His hair stood in separate shocks. His pinafore trousers
                        were greatly damaged, and it was evident that no one had driven George to
                        water during the entire week.
                    ' Father Jonois will hold the chief to ac- count for this,"
                        thought Marie. She noticed the chief's changed look. Wawatam had
                        been the most human convert of Father Jonois's flock. The cunning
                        of barbarism was return- ing to his face. An unhappy Indian had not the
                        resources of an unhappy European. Marie felt responsible for it. So mixed
                        are our good and evil that she closed her eyes and made speechless appeal to
                        heaven for the Chippewa she had been wishing dead. Wawatam was wary and
                        expectant; he watched the borders of the camp. " He is afraid the
                        priest will come and find him dealing with the medicine- man,"
                        whispered Marie.
                    She had never witnessed any of her Chip- pewa family's heathen
                        rites. Like her, they  knelt before the
                        chancel rail in L'Arbre Croche, or bore the discipline of the
                        mission- ary when he made his round of the islands. One solemn council she
                        had seen, after the great chief Pontiac's war-token was first sent
                        through the Northwest. Appeals of orators then rang among the trees. The sun
                        shone on burnished bodies and arm-bands, and robes of beaver trailed the
                        grass as majestic fellows trod back and forth in the passion of eloquence.
                        This was to be a very different rite. The medicine-man stood with a wand in
                        his hand, and his assistants measured and marked ground. Young Indians ran
                        to cut saplings. Marie crept to the lodge door and drew the flap down, lest
                        prying little Indian boys should seek her out, or their mothers try to make
                        the lodge their refuge; and watched the whole plateau in front of her while
                        she held the mat. Directly across that space walked Henry, with three
                        Canadian boatmen at his heels. He was in the midst of the busy tribe before
                        they saw him. Then their yell of exultation reverberated from island to
                        island, and shook itself to silence far away in the east.
                
                
                
                    PART IV
                        THE HIGH PLATEAU
                    A HATCHET whizzed over the fire, mak- ing one revolution, and striking
                        Henry's shoulder with the handle instead of the blade. A dozen
                        mouths derided the marksman, and other hatchets were poised, when a huge old
                        chief turned on his young men and stopped their sport. He had a stern aspect
                        suited to the leader of the massacre at Fort Michili- mackinac, and he was
                        known to hate the English with a hatred scarcely less than Pon-
                        tiac's. Henry remembered him as the Grand Sautor: the French called
                        the Chippewa na- tion Sautors. He was an able political second to the master
                        Indian mind of his day, and he would not now permit any action taken in his
                        presence without first consulting the envoys from Detroit.
                    Henry stood in the midst of the savages, unconsciously affecting them by his
                        presence.  They admired him. He had not dodged
                        the hatchet. His shorn hair crisped in a gold fleece over his head. The
                        flame in his eyes, they afterward said, burned holes in them.
                    When Marie saw him she sprang up in the closed lodge, but as the
                        hatchet-handle struck him she dropped to her knees. He was not hurt. He
                        stood alive among his enemies, and near her. Marie's body bloomed
                        all over, the living smoothness of flower-petals enveloping her. The sun and
                        summer, the world, and the meaning of life, returned, and she lived infi-
                        nitely. Her blood buzzed in her ears. Whether we shall exist hereafter in a
                        happier state, or run, shivering souls, a long gantlet of woes, there are
                        instants here which compensate us for everything.
                    "--to give myself up," she heard Henry saying, as soon as
                        she could hear anything.
                    One of his Frenchmen interpreted, turning from Henry to the Grand Sautor and
                        from the Grand Sautor back to Henry as the talk proceeded. Masses of
                        wrinkles around the old chief's eyes contracted in ironical
                        scrutiny.
                    "Why is the Englishman such a fool as to come back and give himself
                        up when he had escaped?"
                    
                    "You know why," said Henry. "Because I cannot have
                        any harm done to the chief Wawatam and his family."
                    "There stands the chief Wawatam. Who has threatened to do him or his
                        family any harm?"
                    Wawatam stood with his shoulder toward Henry, lax and sullen in attitude.
                    "A message was sent to me that the tribe had disagreed about the
                        present he made on my account, and if I escaped entirely they in- tended to
                        burn him and his whole family."
                    "Who told you that?"
                    "The chief himself told it to a Pani woman that Mme. Cadotte bought
                        at the fort."
                    "The chief lied."
                    Henry looked at Wawatam, a confused red- ness mounting in his face.
                        "The chief never lied to me in his life."
                    There was silence among the Chippewas. The Detroit Indians had made use of
                        the arts of war, and were at Michilimackinac to stir up recruits, but none
                        of them answered Wawa- tam's grin as he raised his head. They knew
                        that Henry was his adopted brother. It was a kind of betrayal which most
                        nearly touched their religious natures.
                    
                    " The Pani woman went with Mme. Cadotte in her boat, with the
                        Englishman," said the Grand Sautor, examining evidence. "
                        How could the Pani woman carry a message from the chief when she did not see
                        him after the Englishman did?"
                    "She said he told her when I got into the boat, but forbade her to
                        tell me before it was done, that if he did not give me up at the end of a
                        week, the tribe would come over to the island and burn him and his family.
                        As soon as we landed I persuaded Mme. Cadotte to let me take the canoe and
                        some men and come back. The weather was against us. You have all come to the
                        island as he said you would. What are you going to do?"
                    "It is none of the Englishman's business; but we came to
                        consult the Great Turtle."
                    Henry saw the medicine-man and young Indians bringing a load of heavy poles
                        for the mystic Turtle lodge. The evening fire burned harmlessly, little
                        bead-eyed fellows huddling in copper nakedness between the blaze and their
                        mothers' knees. Neither stake nor scaf- fold of torment appeared to
                        have been thought of by the gathered multitude.
                    
                    "My brother could have killed me while I was here," said
                        Henry. "Why did he set a trap to bring me back?"
                    "Perhaps the Pani woman lied," suggested the Grand
                        Sautor.
                    "The Pani woman did not lie," declared Wawatam, and he
                        turned with a fierce stare at his English brother, the corners of his mouth
                        drawn down, and the youthfulness of his face pitiably aged by deep creases.
                        One week's debauchery had destroyed in him the civilization of two
                        years. Race superiority in the other man still bore him down, and overrode
                        his Indian weapon of treachery. He felt one of nature's wrongs.
                        Henry lis- tened in silence to what he had to say.
                    "My English brother's blood and mine were one. I hid him
                        here, and gave him food; and he took what was mine away from me. I let him
                        go out of my hand, but I fastened a cord to him. When he was gone, and I
                        went to the black gown with my complaint, even the black gown was turned
                        against me by Eng- lish witchcraft, and would not let me have the wife
                        promised to me. The black gown said: 'I will look into the matter.
                        Perhaps it is best that no marriage take place between  you and the French girl nourished in your
                        grandmother's lodge.' If this man had not come back on
                        account of the Pani woman's words, I would have followed
                        him."
                    A deep breath was drawn by the listeners. They said, "Ho!"
                        in admiration. Every English-hating breast acquitted Wawatam, and exulted in
                        his craft.
                    "I did not take what he says was his," denied Henry,
                        sternly. " That white islander who lives in his
                        grandmother's lodge scarcely looked at me when I went away. If a
                        priest would not marry her to him, neither would a priest marry her to me.
                        She is too good for either of us."
                    "How many times did you see this French girl? " inquired
                        the Grand Sautor.
                    " Only three times, when she came with a boy to bring my food, and
                        helped build my lodge."
                    "Did Wawatam send her with food to the Englishman?"
                    Wawatam answered, "There was no one else to send, except the boy,
                        who would for- get."
                    The old chief looked at the young one with a grunt of contempt.
                    
                    "Wawatam is a young man; he has learned nothing. And the black gown
                        does not live among us to give or take away our women. Where is she now?
                        "
                    Wawatam replied that she was probably in the woods with his grandmother,
                        getting fuel; the lodge was empty.
                    "Did you not tell us that the Englishman took her from
                        you?"
                    " He bewitched her. She would not go with me to L'Arbre
                        Croche."
                    Squaws, watching the ivory whiteness and muscular beauty of the Anglo-Saxon,
                        won- dered how any woman could refuse to look at him. The Canadians were
                        rabbits beside him, broad, brown-faced fellows, lacking that which comes and
                        goes in power through the countenance.
                    "The English trader has come back and put himself in our
                        hands," said the Grand Sautor, summing up facts. "What
                        shall be done with him? "
                    Wawatam took a knife from his belt, but the old chief gave him a look which
                        no young Chippewa ever disregarded. So deadly was the silent threat of the
                        Grand Sautor that a European has set it down in letters--" The  most undaunted person could not behold him
                        without some degree of terror."
                    One of the Detroit envoys stepped be- tween Henry and the Grand Sautor, and
                        spoke against letting any Englishman live. Pontiac was strong enough, if all
                        the tribes united with him, to sweep the English from the country.
                        Wawatam's experience was common: wherever an Englishman went, he
                        took everything, and pushed his red bro- ther out of his way.
                    When this speech was interpreted to Henry he understood why the Great Turtle
                        was to be consulted. That esteemed and truthful spirit would tell the tribe
                        whether a war against the English would be successful or not. The Chippewa
                        nation hesitated after striking their first blow.
                    The impulse which brought Henry back to face these savages had not turned to
                        indigna- tion when he found himself made a fool of. He listened callously to
                        gutturals on which his life hung, numb in the instinct of self-
                        preservation. In the midst of the interpreting he was alert for a step or a
                        rustle of leaves at the edge of the woods. Yet he did not own to himself
                        what was working like mad-  ness in his cool
                        English blood--that long- ing for the one beloved, which men laugh at, and
                        die of, calling it by some other name. One or two happily nested birds
                        cheeped from the oaks around the plateau, and the low call of an awakening
                        owl came from the woods. The medicine-man, a disgusted practitioner, balked
                        of his own importance, sat with his chin on his knees, waiting until the
                        English- man should be despatched. It was not for him to take the word out
                        of the Grand Sautor's mouth, but when there was oppor- tunity he
                        hazarded the opinion that one Englishman less would neither gain nor lose
                        the war; and popular conviction was with him.
                    "What have you to say for yourself?" in- quired the Grand
                        Sautor of Henry. "The English are no good, but we do not close
                        their mouths."
                    Henry looked as relentlessly at his old enemy as that enemy looked at
                        him.
                    "Why should I say anything? I felt obliged to come back, and I am
                        here. You can do what you please with me now, though no Indian seemed able
                        to kill me until trick- ery was used. But it is going to cost you  dearly when you come to settle with the
                        English, particularly Sir William Johnson."
                    At that name a wave of uneasiness passed through the camp. Sir William
                        Johnson's in- fluence extended from the valley of the Mo- hawk to
                        the extreme northwest. He was the enemy of the French, but the manipulator
                        and virtual lord of many eastern tribes. The Chippewas wished to be at peace
                        with Sir William Johnson, at least until Pontiac's con- spiracy was
                        ripe enough for a successful sweep of the continent. But at Henry's
                        implied threat the Grand Sautor rose up in defiance, and passed
                        sentence.
                    "The Englishman came back to save his adopted brother from dying by
                        fire. Even he saw that we had a right to burn somebody; and we will now use
                        that right. The English- man shall die by fire, that none of my people be
                        disappointed."
                    Directly the camp was let loose. Ready braves seized Henry and pinioned his
                        arms, while others tied his feet together. He felt grim amusement at being
                        made so tame a victim in front of the wrinkled old idol, though escape or
                        defense was impossible from the instant of his surrender.
                    
                    "You fellows who have had my goods, and paid me no beaver, can pay
                        me now," he re- marked coolly.
                    The delinquents shouted when they under- stood him. They would pay him,
                        indeed, with firebrands thrust into his ears, his eyes, and even down his
                        parching throat. They would pay the whole English nation in him. Henry kept
                        his feet, and looked at his adopted Chip- pewa brother.
                    Wawatam worked fiercely, digging the hole for the stake, driving in with his
                        moccasined foot a spade which Henry had given him. Plenty of trees offered
                        their trunks on every hand, but there must be space for the full enjoyment
                        of roasting an Englishman, and the center of the open plateau, in front of
                        the lodges, was the spot chosen. A pole intended for the Great
                        Turtle's lodge was held by other Indians ready to be packed into
                        its earthen socket. The world was then a deliberate world in all its
                        corners; but the intoxication of haste which this continent produces worked
                        even in aboriginal natures. It was not long before Wawatam withdrew his
                        spade, and sullenly watched the muscles on bare backs crowding around  the post, and many hands packing the dirt in.
                        This was the only kind of planting to which an ambitious young Indian would
                        degrade himself.
                    When Wawatam had walked through the woods guiding Henry to Mme.
                        Cadotte's boat, he began to regret planning the
                        Englishman's complete escape. He scarcely knew what he desired; but
                        every step in their silent march was a step toward the end of friendship. At
                        one moment the savage felt prompted to kill Henry in the woods, but the
                        spiritual tie of Indian adoption still held. It was monstrous to hurt the
                        person given to him by supernat- ural signs. If Marie would go to
                        L'Arbre Croche and be married, it would be clear that Henry had
                        done him no harm. If she would not, the story the Pani woman had told him,
                        and the look he had himself seen, demanded revenge. They had reached the
                        landing, and Wawatam saw the Pani woman in the boat with Mme. Cadotte before
                        he hit on a scheme to bring the Englishman back. Henry might not respond to
                        the test, or he might have to be concealed about the island again. Wa- watam
                        took all chances.
                    The young chief had told his hurt briefly  to
                        his tribe. His own tongue failed to show all the change which had come over
                        him. Little red tongues of fire springing from fat pine-wood should talk for
                        him. And what- ever counsel the Great Turtle might give, Wawatam was already
                        decided; he had gone beyond his people in hostility to the English.
                    The most trivial incidents accompany the progress of death. Henry felt his
                        sense of humor turn abnormally keen. The ludicrous side of the life he was
                        about to leave affected him as a stimulant might have done. He saw George
                        lying tipsy on Marie's bench, open- mouthed like a dead fish; and
                        an old, hawk- faced Indian woman contentedly chewing her tongue while she
                        rocked a child in the con- cave of her lap. He noticed a curious boy who
                        tried to peep under the elbows of the earth-packers kicked end over end by
                        the backward drive of a moccasin. Children as red as hairless puppies
                        tumbled in a heap by the glowing log. The amenities of Indian life were
                        being practised around Henry, and he fancied morsels of himself passed from
                        hand to hand on a stick. It flashed across his mind like a vision that there
                        are larger ways of doing things than any we know; that an  archangel, for instance, might have managed this
                        affair with honor, and without having a feather singed.
                    Henry's Canadian boatmen sat down by the fire, and took the chance
                        to prepare them- selves a little supper before camping else- where. They
                        could not interfere with the political or personal revenges of a tribe,
                        though their master would be sorry to hear that the Englishman was burned.
                        Having brought him to the island, according to orders, they would rest a
                        night before taking the boat back; but nobody could expect them to meddle
                        with what happened in the Chippewa camp.
                    Sounds of chopping in the dusky woods seemed to reverberate along the edge of
                        the sky. While some of the Indians cut fuel, others ran with arm-loads of it
                        to build around the stake, which towered ten feet high, having the festive
                        air of a May-pole. More than one knife would be stuck by cunning marksmen in
                        the bark over the victim's head, and great sport it would be if
                        every feint at throwing made him dodge. And when the hot air should rush
                        upward as through a funnel, and the top of the pole begin to wave its little
                             pennon of smoke, there would be no need
                        of other light on the high level. The sky over- head was a delicate
                        apple-green, one of those illusive tints which the crimson and orange of
                        sunset leave in high northern air. Swarming figures became less and less
                        distinct in outline, and darkness encroached from the woods, bringing sweet
                        odors with it. Henry smelt the pine, and remembered his first
                        night's plunge through the thickets of the island-- the enchanted
                        island, to which a man must come back though he come to his death.
                    As soon as their preparations were finished, the Chippewas dragged Henry to
                        the stake and tied him. His bright head came up out of their buffeting, and
                        steadied itself against the bark of the young tree. Through all his
                        sensations he hoped that the presence of the Chippewas had driven Marie to
                        some other part of the island for the night.
                    The wood was piled around Henry. Young Indians who had never seen a man
                        burned stood by and learned cunning lessons in tor- ture. The circle was not
                        built as high as his knees; for a slow fire, steadily increased, would
                        prolong the enjoyment of the camp far into the night.
                    
                    Wawatam himself carried a brand from his outdoor hearth to light the pile.
                        His eye and Henry's met as he knelt with the blazing pine. The
                        Englishman's face was more dis- tinct than Wawatam's. Not
                        a word passed between them, and the barrier of flame began to rise, and
                        separated them forever.
                    Some Indians who thought the spectacle needed illumination at its beginning
                        were heaping wood on the camp-fire, and the crackle of the resinous fuel
                        could be heard almost as far as its light could be seen. That shapeless
                        black which we cannot call mere shadow, but people from childhood with mon-
                        sters, drew away beyond the outermost trees. The ruby tinting of flame at
                        night extended along the trampled sward, and up to oak twigs, seeming to
                        edge the notchings of each leaf. The skins of naked babies grew ro- seate
                        under this magic brush; and stilt-like shadows lay along the ground,
                        mingling, and passing one another in constant caricature. Night was now
                        overhead as well as around the little plane to which man's stature
                        raises him; and stars were suddenly in their places, filmed with the light
                        incense of burning wood.
                    
                    The lodges, opaque and weather-beaten, were least responsive of any objects
                        on the plateau. Stolidly they witnessed the threads of fire climbing around
                        Henry's feet. The nearest lodge kept its secret of a French girl
                        who had lain all of a summer night with his staff across her breast. It was.
                        silent and empty, the flap closing on its vacant hollow. For when the
                        Indians seized Henry, Marie had snatched the blanket-gown at her bed- head,
                        and torn an opening between mats at the back of the lodge. Her desperate
                        rend- ing shook the heavy structure. Any Chip- pewa beholder might have
                        fancied the Great Turtle spirit already invoked, and in the throes of
                        possessing the medicine-man. But the camp was in such an uproar that no one
                        saw it, or Marie herself, when she broke through the hole and ran with her
                        wool garment over her head to the nearest cover of trees.
                    She was leaving the open space behind, fly- ing through the dead leaves, half
                        bent to shoot under low-swung boughs, when she heard the Chippewa yell, and
                        her flight became a deer's. Then a sound of chopping mingled with
                        In- dian exultation, and she knew there was no pursuit; the chief's
                        young men were merely  scattering to cut wood.
                        Marie held both hands on her bursting heart, letting the blanket dress fall
                        around her neck, and then around her waist, as her blood glowed and moisture
                        broke through every pore.
                    A path made by prayerward feet to the rift in the island stretched its thread
                        through the labyrinth of trees. She could not see far ahead in the darkness
                        to which twilight sunk there, and the swish of leaves filled her ears.
                        Headlong she ran against a man in a cassock, who caught her, and held her
                        pant- ing at arm's length. His white, benignant face was dimly
                        visible. Brushing the twigs at a respectful distance behind him, other feet
                        were coming, and Marie knew they were Noko's; she had counted on
                        meeting the priest and the Indian grandmother in this path from the grotto
                        chapel.
                    Marie leaned against a tree, dragging his hands. " Run, Father
                        Jonois, to the lodges, and stop the Chippewas--forbid them to burn
                        him!"
                    "To burn whom?"
                    "The Englishman, father. I broke through the back of the lodge. They
                        are cutting the wood--I cannot speak!"
                    
                    Her suffocating pulses hammered audibly, and the priest braced her against
                        the tree with a grip which calmed. She tried to con- trol her breath. Father
                        Jonois spoke quietly.
                    "I saw canoes on the lake, and suspected mischief. I was coming to
                        the lodges. The English trader escaped last week in Mme. Cadotte's
                        boat. Why is he back on the island?"
                    " Because the chief sent him a message that we were all to be killed
                        on his account. He gave himself up."
                    The wail in her voice told the priest all that he had vainly tried to learn
                        concerning this Englishman while examining her conscience in the afternoon.
                        She was reticent then, look- ing down, or at the sacred image in the niche,
                        and speaking indifferently of all human be- ings. Father Jonois had made a
                        trip to the island as soon as the straits were safe for his canoe-man, to
                        satisfy his conscience in the matter of disposing of this young French
                        girl.
                    " I will do what I can, my daughter. Are many of the Chippewas
                        there?"
                    " Yes, father."
                    " Is the old chief with them?"
                    
                    "Yes, father."
                    Father Jonois slightly shook his head. "Since this craze for war
                        took them, they pay little attention to the priest."
                    He went swiftly forward on his new errand. Whether Father Jonois picked up
                        his cassock and ran, or attendant spirits drew the bushes from his path, he
                        was so excellent a footer of the wilderness that Marie could scarcely keep
                        the darker blackness of his figure in sight. They left the Indian
                        grandmother far behind, trudging under a load, of bark and forest plunder.
                        When the priest obliged Noko to go as far as the Virgin's chapel
                        with Marie, and to receive religious prodding her- self, she combined
                        pleasure with discipline, and stole time from her prayers to forage among
                        things which she better loved. It was hard to keep an old Indian woman fa-
                        cing toward an image on a rocky shelf while the rain-freshened woods invited
                        her, and Father Jonois often let her drop her beads to go digging. She
                        stopped many times to rest as night sifted on her in the thickets, chew- ing
                        a cud of tender beech-mast or sassafras leaves, her nose and chin
                        approaching and retreating, and her sighs of content stirring  the silence which inclosed her. Chippewa yells, which
                        shook echoes abroad from the open place where they were uttered, came to her
                        muffled through much leafage. If she had seen the glare growing at the top
                        of the island, it could have given no alarm to a householder with nothing to
                        lose. Past the anguish of loving, of despairing, past the keen and useless
                        cares of life, the happy old woman sat down in the woods and went to
                        sleep.
                    No man was wiser in his day than a fron- tier missionary. He knew when to
                        interfere, and when the tide of returning heathenism was too strong for him.
                        Many a border family owed its safety to the restraining priest; and many
                        another perished because even the con- fessional failed to give him all the
                        clues to the dark hearts he labored for. Father Jonois had not been able to
                        prevent the massacre at Michilimackinac, and the misery of that ex- perience
                        returned upon him as he mounted the plateau and saw the tall stake and its
                        sur- rounding swarms. Wawatam was kneeling with his torch, and flames crept
                        up the lattice of wood. Marksmen, bow in hand, were gathering at long range
                        from the stake, and  snaky eyes resented the
                        black gown's appear- ance there. Wawatam shook the
                        priest's hand from his wrist.
                    " You are lighting a fire to burn your own soul eternally,"
                        warned Father Jonois. " Put it out."
                    Wawatam stuck the brand into another place. Father Jonois began to tear down
                        the pile with his naked fingers, and as many Chip- pewas as could seize him
                        dragged him back from it. A few years earlier they might have killed him.
                        But the religion of the black gown, even when it was disregarded, had now
                        its established power.
                    Henry ground his teeth, the sweat of phys- ical anguish and faintness moving
                        in drops down his forehead. His face could be dis- tinctly seen in the bold
                        light. His arms were bound down against the smoking blan- ket-coat, but he
                        had thrown it back from his neck before the Indians seized him, so that the
                        beating pulses showed in the white brawn.
                    " It is not worth while to think of me," he called in
                        French through the shimmering me- dium which separated him from the priest.
                        "Think of the white islander, Monsieur Jonois,  and take her away from this wretched tribe of
                        savages."
                    He called Marie by the name he had given her instead of her own, which
                        Wawatam might comprehend. This French girl, who never mingled with the
                        tribe, but lived her secluded, happy life on the island, had been an object
                        of unacknowledged superstition to the Chip- pewas. Not one of them laid a
                        hand on her now as she flew from the woods and leaped into the circle of
                        fire.
                    Her electrical muscles seemed to act with- out volition. She did not know
                        what she was doing, but did it from foregone necessity, as a mother comes to
                        the help of her child. The flower-like skin of her face was as stiff as a
                        mask with the expressionless look of one meet- ing sudden death. The smoke
                        swept sidewise, an inverted curtain, showing her dress of gull- breasts
                        crisping to her body through every darkening plume, the ends of her braids
                        and the little hairs edging them curling up. She had a woolen garment in her
                        hand, and she wrapped it with her arms around Henry, and as she tried to
                        protect him her face flamed with sweet helplessness and shame. The ter-
                        rible weeping aloud of a hopeless woman 
                        pierced the roaring crackle of the fire. Father Jonois heard it with pangs
                        which the mas- sacre at the fort had not caused him.
                    But the sound, and Marie's touch with her poor little muffler, made
                        Henry resplendent. All the beauty and strength of the man, all his physical
                        endurance, and every endow- ment of tenderness, came upon him visibly as the
                        power came upon Samson. He might have submitted alone to the torture of the
                        Chippewas, and he knew there was no hope of escape; but he struggled until
                        the cords of his arms cracked. The stake shook. He tore first one forearm
                        and then the other from his thongs, and lifted Marie, shielding her face and
                        head from the fire.
                    "Take her, Monsieur Jonois!" he shouted in French, and then
                        in Chippewa to the In- dians, "Let the priest go!"
                    But Marie herself held to the stake behind his head. Though she did not speak
                        a word, he knew she was anchoring her fate to his, and would not be cast
                        into safety.
                    "Then marry us!" Henry cried, and rap- ture deadened
                        physical pain. In that de- lirium of heat and smoke he and the girl on his
                        breast saw as a vision the life they might 
                        have had together--their common hearth and table, their days and nights of
                        unbroken companionship. Marie needed no mother to tell her these things: the
                        supplanter of mothers is swift in teaching. Every part of her which touched
                        him said, "I love you." She thought it like a prayer,
                        "I love you." Her breath came and went, a divine ether,
                        instead of the stifling fumes of burning wood, carrying the one speechless
                        fact which made it worth the breathing--"I love you--I love
                        you."
                    The instant of Henry's breaking partly loose was a breathless
                        instant among the Chippewas. But when he lifted Marie, and flung his
                        commands to priest and Indians, Wawatam raised a yell. The quicksilver na-
                        tures around the young chief responded. They knew it meant instant and cruel
                        death to the Englishman and the French girl who took up his cause. No time
                        for torture, or tickling a victim's ear, or stirring his hair with
                        well-planted arrows. The marksmen dropped their bows, and ran to a carnival
                        of fire. Young braves stooped with Wawatam to snatch brands or scoop live
                        coals with spade or bark platter or anything at hand  which would carry them from the camp- fire to heap on
                        the two at the stake; and Father Jonois was beginning the marriage
                        service.
                    A missionary adapted all his offices to the emergencies of life in the
                        wilderness. These two asking marriage were of alien races, each knowing
                        little of the other's past. He sincerely believed that one was
                        doomed to perdition and the other required absolution instead of wedlock.
                        Yet the Latin words rolled over his lips as at the command of heaven, for
                        that cry out of the fire was a force as strong as religion.
                    The Chippewas holding the priest let him go, and ran after Wawatam. The
                        nightmare which had lasted so long measured by pulse- beats, and so mere a
                        point of time measured by the march of stars, was over before Father Jonois
                        could further interfere. A man run- ning across the open place with twenty
                        strange Indians at his heels kicked the blaz- ing wood from the stake, and
                        scattered it with hands and feet as far as he could throw it. His deerskin
                        boots smoked, and his face flamed with exertion. He cut Henry loose, two or
                        three strokes of a knife dropping the 
                        
                            "FATHER JONOIS WAS BEGINNING THE MARRIAGE
                                SERVICE."
                        
                         thongs around the base of the post, and his
                        men continued to tread out brands.
                    "Fools of Chippewas," he shouted, "what are you
                        doing? "
                    Indians who had already lifted blazing pieces from the camp-fire, stood in a
                        cluster like upright glow-worms; and others, shield- ing their faces and
                        plucking, were startled in the act. They would have risen knife in hand
                        against any other white man in the Northwest who assumed such authority over
                        them; but M. Cadotte was not only their friend,--he had married into their
                        tribe,-- he was also the lord of all the red villages around Sault Ste.
                        Marie. They knew his in- fluence had kept the Lake Superior Indians from
                        joining Pontiac, and their own pause since lifting the hatchet had resulted
                        from that knowledge.
                    As the blaze around the stake was quenched, darkness again encroached upon
                        the plateau from the woods, though one by one brands were dropped back on
                        the camp- fire. Patches of creeping redness, where smoke was just breaking
                        into sullen flame, showed on Henry's woolen clothes. M. Cadotte
                        pulled off his coat and the priest  took his
                        cassock skirts to smother them, and Marie was stripped of her heated
                        blanket- cloth, from which the sewed feathers dropped like burnt gum. Sudden
                        terror of herself as an inflammable material made her submit to have the
                        smoldering dress torn off by Father Jonois, and he shoved her through the
                        half darkness into her lodge.
                    The night wind, flowing from the lakes across mossy forests cooled by a
                        week's rain and moist with freshly condensed dew, was sweet after
                        that hot breath of torment. It came to Marie through the hole she had made
                        between the mats, and she threw her- self on the ground as she had often
                        thrown herself in the lake water, prostrate before the good God who drenched
                        her with such joy.
                    The Chippewas drew together at the camp-fire, red light shining between their
                        moving legs. Their brutal carnival died out as quickly at M.
                        Cadotte's shout as it had arisen with Wawatam's yell. He
                        noticed when he approached them that the young chief Wawatam was gone. M.
                        Cadotte was too well skilled in treating with Indians to look around the
                        dark edges of the camp ap- prehensively, but the fact that Wawatam  might be skulking made him say briefly what
                        he had to say. The crimson stack of reviv- ing brands gave him a ruddier hue
                        than was natural, though he was a hale, well-built Frenchman, dark-haired,
                        and very animated in gesture.
                    "And have you been sitting here, Grand Sautor, and allowing your
                        young men to de- stroy their nation? " he inquired, confronting the
                        old image.
                    The Grand Sautor made no reply, but waited to hear what had happened at the
                        Sault to make M. Cadotte take all this trouble for an Englishman. Some
                        little sat- isfaction embedded itself in his wrinkles that the Englishman
                        was at least well scorched before being turned loose. The medicine-man,
                        resting his horns against a tree, relaxed in weary disgust. He knew the
                        Great Turtle spirit would not be con- sulted that night.
                    "As many burns as there are on that young Englishman's
                        body, that many Chip- pewas will Sir William Johnson have for them. What! Do
                        you not know that this man is his relative? I would not have let the young
                        Englishman come back if I had  been at the
                        Sault when he arrived. But I was away, meeting messengers sent from Fort
                        Niagara, from Sir William Johnson. He sent for his young relative. And he
                        has come as far as Fort Niagara to meet the tribes of the Northwest. His
                        kettles are hung, full of meat. The messengers said he intended to load your
                        canoes with powder and shot and blankets, and more presents than you can
                        carry away. Are you so fond of your old bows and arrows for hunting when you
                        can have firearms? What will he say when I am obliged to tell him,
                        ' Mon- sieur, these fools of Chippewas have listened to evil birds
                        from Detroit and other places, and have put your young relative into the
                        fire?'"
                    M. Cadotte turned abruptly on the sullen Detroit envoys sitting with their
                        knees up to their chins.
                    " Did these fellows tell you that Detroit is taken? Detroit is not
                        taken. It never can be taken. The St. Lawrence River is black with canoes,
                        and the canoes are full of English soldiers. Pontiac cannot stand against
                        such power. And here are you-- laying up crimes against the lives of your
                             women and children! Will you go to this
                        council at Fort Niagara, and make peace with a people who have you in their
                        hands? I am of your tribe, and I see nothing else for us to do. Or will you
                        refuse? The messengers wait at the Sault, and you must come and tell them
                        yourselves what you will do."
                    Marie had not finished changing her moc- casins and girding on one of her
                        blanket- gowns when Father Jonois called her. She hung her beads in her
                        girdle, and tied her birch-bark cap under her chin. There was nothing else
                        for her to take. She looked back at her wilderness nest. Noko's
                        vacant bed gave her a pang. She had forgotten the old grandmother. Noko must
                        be dozing somewhere on the path, under a load of bark and roots. What would
                        she do when she trudged home to the lodges and found no French girl ready to
                        take off her load and ladle her belated supper out for her?
                    " O dear Noko!" said Marie.
                    But the sweet necessity of going where her love went hurried her out of the
                        little home, and she dropped the flap forever be- hind her.
                    
                    The camp-fire, coaxed by the squaws, was lifting candle-flames and making the
                        plateau flicker. Those faces which had always been strange to Marie,
                        distantly watched her now, half sinister in their wordless scrutiny. M.
                        Cadotte had his Canadians and Indians mus- tered, and he surrounded the
                        Englishman with them. It was necessary to hurry to the boats. The
                        fluctuating aboriginal temper which he had turned toward peace might turn
                        back toward war the next minute, reck- less of consequences. And the young
                        chief Wawatam, who had separated himself from the savage bivouac, might work
                        harm with arrows in the darkness which the follow- ing council would never
                        be able to mend. M. Cadotte was sincerely attached to his Chippewa
                        relatives.
                    "But where is George?" said Marie. "Can we not
                        take him along?"
                    "No, no; it would not do," objected M. Cadotte. The
                        Frenchman had no mind to make a further breach with Wawatam by abducting his
                        adopted son.
                    Marie paused at the bench where George lay, and put her hand on his
                        unconscious head.
                    
                    " O poor George! Who will take care of him?"
                    "Make your mind easy, my child," said Father Jonois.
                        "I will look after George."
                    "But some one must drive him to bathe, Father Jonois, or he would
                        not wash himself once a year."
                    "I will lay it upon him as penance," promised Father
                        Jonois; "as indeed it is to most of my flock."
                    "O George, the saints also watch over you," whispered
                        Marie; and George stirred in his heavy sleep, bubbling half
                        articulately:
                    "All good."
                    Then, understanding what she risked by pausing, Marie hurried down the
                        familiar path to the bay through the moist, sweet woods. Indian-pipes were
                        perhaps spring- ing about her, parting dead leaves as they shot like rising
                        souls above the earth. Would there fail a girl to search them out and love
                        them while the island stood on the waters?
                    Her island--her dear island!
                    And then she remembered the chief who had been kind to her two years. But
                        Henry held her hand against his breast as they  walked. She felt the pang of all his burns, and knew that every eye kept
                        watch on thickets ahead; and it puzzled her that our good and evil are so
                        mixed in this world that we cannot separate them.
                    "For what could I not have done to the Pani woman," flashed
                        through Marie's mind, "if the Pani woman had this hand
                        which now holds mine? The poor chief cannot know it was impossible for me
                        ever to go to L'Arbre Croche with him."
                    
                    SOUTH of the Cheneaux islands there was a redness in the
                        east which surprised the eye like dawn at night, until a disk appeared, in-
                        flamed and pushing upward. It was the old moon, diminished in figure, but
                        grand, as the lady of the sky forever is. As the flush died away, woods,
                        islands, and immense stretches of water sprung to distinctness in her mystic
                        day, and she unrolled her web of tapestry along the rippling pavement below.
                        There was no more than a ripple on the straits.
                    Father Jonois's canoe moved away from the little fleet heading
                        toward the Sault. He had just finished the sacrament of marriage and his
                        admonitions to the bridegroom, while  the
                        Canadians held the boats together in mid-channel. A problem that had
                        troubled him two years was now solved, and his con- science acquitted him of
                        the French girl whom her husband called the white islander. In winter he
                        used to cross the ice on a sledge to make sure she was well and happy with
                        her Chippewa household, and he guarded her at all seasons in the semi-savage
                        lot from which she sprung into beauty. She loved him with veneration; yet
                        she had just kissed his hand and turned away to the uttermost parts of the
                        earth with a stranger she had never seen when that moon was new.
                    "There are women," thought the priest, " who have
                        a vocation for loving as plain as others have for the holy
                        life."
                    His expert canoe-man, who had ventured on more than one perilous journey with
                        him, looked forward to an easy night crossing. Widening triangles of light
                        showed behind the eastward-moving boats as they clove the water. An auroral
                        play of camp-fire could be seen on the summit of Mackinac above the white
                        cliffs and foliage dome. Night had never seemed less savage on that coast.
                        Father Jonois, turning his back on accom- 
                        plished duty and visible things, began to whisper prayers. Still a
                        glamourous in- fluence, as resistless as music, stole out from that island,
                        and followed the canoe while it pushed its breastplate of foam toward sparks
                        of French windows at Fort Michilimackinac.
                
            
        
    
