
     ----CITATION---- 
        Catherwood, Mary Hartwell, 1847-1902. The Secrets at Roseladies: electronic version. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3886
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                "THAT MOUND," SAID DAN, "IS THE SHAWNEE
                    BURYIN' MOUND."
            
            
            
                
                    THE SECRETS AT ROSELADIES
                
                BYMARY HARTWELl CATHERWOOD Author ofDogberry
                        BunchRocky FortOld Caravan Daysand
                    othersILLUSTRATIONS BY W A ROGERS
                
                    BOSTON
                    D LOTHROP COMPANYFRANKLIN AND HAWLEY STREETS
                
            
            
            
                COPYRIGHT, 1888BYD. LOTHROP COMPANY.
            
            
            
                
                    CONTENTS.
                    I. THE WHIRLING TABLE
                        9
                    II. THE UNITED DIGGERS
                        21
                    III. COUSIN SARA'S AWFUL SECRET
                        32
                    IV. A RIVER HOUSE
                        45
                    V. THE CATNIP-PIPE AND ITS WITNESS
                        53
                    VI. A CHILL
                        58
                    VII. BELSHAZZAR'S FEAST
                        70
                    VIII. ANOTHER DISGRACEFUL THING
                        79
                    IX. AUNT JANE
                        97
                    X. SISTER SETS FORTH
                        105
                    XI. WHILE GRASS GROWS AND WATER RUNS
                        115
                    XII. A SILENT SAVAGE AND A WAR-WHOOP
                        126
                    XIII. EIGHT BOYLESS LEGS
                        137
                    XIV. MORE DISGRACEFUL THINGS
                        146
                    XV. CAPTIVES
                        154
                    XVI. TRIAL OF THE MOUND-DIGGERS
                        160
                    XVII. THE LAST DAY ON THE WABASH
                        174
                
            
            
            
                
                    LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
                    "That mound," said Dan, "is the Shawnee
                        buryin' mound" 
                            Frontis.
                        
                    Cousin Sarah looked hurriedly round the room 41
                    Uncle Roseladies is absent-minded . . . 87
                    "Lay low!" 121
                    Echoes answered her 151
                    "O, Uncle Roseldies! O, you've come after us!"
                            161
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE SECRETS AT ROSELADIES.
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                        THE WHIRLING TABLE.
                    MR. SMITH'S supper was laid in the kitchen,
                        neatly, with a clean china-towel for the cloth, and he ate with his usual
                        humility and relish, drawing no comparisons between his service and the
                        table in the dining-room surrounded by children.
                    He was a square, blue-eyed English laborer who never expected to find a
                        better place than the one he held with the Roseladies.
                    Crumbs which fell between his knees he care- fully picked up again, for Mrs.
                        MacAllister often had him scour the kitchen floor and he appreciated  the misfortune of a grease-spot. As he ducked
                        his head over his plate he listened to the children and watched them through
                        the crack of the dining-room door with the protecting interest he felt it
                        his duty to show in the absence of Mrs. MacAllister and Miss Sarah. Mr.
                        Smith put the housekeeper first in all his thoughts, because Miss Sarah was
                        a young thing and did not take much authority. The master he counted out
                        altogether. Mrs. MacAllister had placed Mr. Smith about the house and to him
                        she was its potentate.
                    Three boys and two girls sat close to the round table. All of them were
                        guests in the house and they considered the occasion one long picnic. Penn
                        Bidgood was going to have all the fun he could hold. Sister Bidgood, a year
                        his junior in age, but quite his grandmother in tenderness of heart, loved
                        to stay with the Roseladies; she loved her uncle and Cousin Sarah; she loved
                        her brother Willie who sat beside her, and she was at- tentive to little
                        Honora Jones on her other hand. More attentive, indeed, than the
                        baby's brother Aquilla.
                    
                    Aquilla was a poetic, bigeyed, languid boy with satin-smooth skin. He
                        crumbled bread upon his plate, and said he did not care for any cake. He
                        would have taken strong tea, but having only milk as a substitute he
                        finished his supper at a mouthful, and wondered how the others could eat so
                        long.
                    "I wish they'd use this table all the time in- stead of the
                        big one," said Penn, standing up. "It Isn't
                        needed in the garret, and Mr. Smith and I had a job bringing it down. Pass
                        the currants, please." He whirled the top of the table and it flew
                        around with a creak, bringing the currant dish to his own hand.
                    "Sit down, Penn," said Sister. "It turns just as
                        well when you sit still." She put it gently around and got another
                        seed cooky for the baby. But the baby, being ambitious to whirl for herself,
                        refused the cooky until she had accomplished another revolution.
                    "It's like tables some of the kings used to have, only they
                        came up through the floor," said Aquilla, giving a whirl and taking
                        the vinegar.
                    
                    "Thank you for the butter," exclaimed Penn, spinning the
                        top until the china rattled.
                    "Thank you for the cake," exclaimed Willie, bound to do as
                        Penn did, and rejecting in his pleasant brown eyes all the swimming dishes
                        as his hand sent them around.
                    "Thank you for salt."
                    "Thank you for cheese."
                    "Thank you for nothing."
                    "It will be thank you for punishment," admon- ished Sister.
                        "Everything will fly off and be broken, then they'll never
                        let us eat on this table again when they go to town."
                    Such a thought was enough to check the mad, gyrations. Aquilla leaned one
                        meditative elbow on the cloth, as a period. "It's
                        centrifugal force that would make them fly off," he explained;
                        "you find out all about that in the philosophy."
                    "I don't care what kind of force that is," as-
                        serted Penn Bidgood. "But I just hope no kind of force at all will
                        make aunt Jane come here from Greensburg. We don't need her and
                        she'd be no use at all."
                    
                    "She promised father and mother she'd come, and she
                        promised your father and mother, too, Quilly. Because Cousin Sarah
                        isn't old enough to take care of so many children," said
                        Sister.
                    "Well, Mrs. MacAllister is old enough," de- clared Penn.
                        "But I don't want anybody at all to herd me.
                        Don't you wish a lot of us had come here when this place was a
                        school!"
                    "We couldn't," objected Willie. " We
                        wasn't alive then."
                    "I guess I wouldn't liked the school, either,"
                        concluded Penn, on second thought.
                    "The school was long ago," said Sister. "I used to
                        wish we lived in a church so I could play keep house in all the seats, but
                        it's nicer to live in an old seminary that has the belfry on it
                        yet."
                    "If they do bring aunt Jan home to-night maybe she'll read
                        aloud to us a great deal," medi- tated Aquilla.
                    "Yes, she'll read out loud to you," exclaimed
                        Penn, rising again with his subject. " She'll read the law
                        and you'll have to toe it down. She be-  lieves in children minding all the time, and no honeyin'
                        up."
                    "Mamma reads to me at home," said Aquilla.
                        "Sometimes when she has a headache or a very bad cold I excuse her,
                        but she has to read double to make up for it. And I'm read to sleep
                        every night. It seems funny not to be read to sleep here. I expect
                        mamma's lonesome, crossing the ocean, because she doesn't
                        have me to read to."
                    "Humph!" disapproved Sister, scarcely know- ing why she did
                        so. She stood in awe of her cousin Aquilla; though she was eleven and he was
                        only ten. He was so tall and white and learned, and continually asking
                        questions which only Cousin Sarah could answer; Mr. Roseladies being fortu-
                        nately deaf and unable to hear them. Yet Sister resented a selfishness which
                        habit had cultivated in Aquilla--more than she did Penn's
                        roughness. Penn would help you over logs and stones, and give you half of
                        every nice thing he got; he liked you though you were a girl. But Aquilla
                        said girls could not be presidents or fight battles. He liked to have girls
                        wait upon him: though. if he  had been a king,
                        he thought he would execute some of them.
                    Penn was a red-headed boy with freckles and small shrewd eyes. He had strong
                        teeth, fists, and legs, and a very strong desire to explore the outside
                        world. He was ashamed to have anything the matter with him, and would hide a
                        bruised finger in his pocket, or disguise a sore toe with a long,
                        unconcerned lope. He lived much in his muscles and lungs and was a naughty,
                        hearty fel- low, gritty and sweet like a ripe russet apple, and he felt a
                        protecting tenderness for his sister and Willie.
                    Sister Bidgood was written down in the family record Mariana, but like an
                        Indian she raised up a new name for herself in her prominent trait. She was
                        probably the most affectionate girl who ever ran around under a fleece of
                        curls. She threw herself upon Uncle Roseladies, startling him out of his
                        repose. She covered Cousin Sarah with kisses and even hung around the waist
                        of Mrs. MacAllister. Penn would rarely hold still; he felt ashamed; but
                        Willie had long submitted to  caresses. He and
                        Sister were not unlike. His hair was amber color and his eyes a yellow
                        brown, set wide apart. Sister's eyes were black, planted close
                        together, and her abundant curls were brown. She had a shy, sidelong smile,
                        and slipped her hand into yours with a cuddling motion. The world was a
                        great assembly of people whom Sister could love and wait upon. She was not
                        thoughtful; she was simply a feeling creature who could not endure her
                        friends' unhappiness.
                    "This is a pretty good place," continued Aquilla.
                        " But I wish mamma had taken me to Europe with her instead of
                        leaving me here. I want to see the English. I just hate the
                        English."
                    " They never did anything to you," declared Penn.
                    "They're a stouter country than we are, though,"
                        acknowledged Aquilla.
                    "Ho!" shouted Penn, standing up once more, with his last
                        fragment of cooky distending one cheek. "I'd like to see
                        them be a stouter coun- try than we are."
                    "They have a better navy" accorded Aquilla.
                    
                    No, they haven't" declared Penn. "They
                        haven't anything better than we have."
                    " England owns one hundred and thirty-two mil- lions of miles in all
                        her provinces," said Aquilla, with the calmness of a
                        statistician.
                    " I don't care what she owns," said Penn, wag-
                        ging his head. " She ain't any bigger or better than the
                        United States; and I'll put it to vote at this table. Is she,
                        Sister?
                    " Girls don't know about such things," remarked
                        Aquilla with patient scorn.
                    "But I have studied my history," claimed Sis- ter,
                        gathering her lips into a grieved bunch.
                    " Well, which'll you vote for," put Penn;
                        "your own folks or the British?"
                    Sister said she voted for her own folks, and Willie had in his memory no
                        strong historical reasons for siding against Penn. The baby, re- sponding to
                        winks and instruction from Aquilla, said the "British,"
                        and then shouted with delight over a new word.
                    Mr. Smith was called upon, and without giving offence voted for the old
                        country. So Great Brit-  ain and America hung
                        evenly balanced and Penn and Aquilla shok their heads at each other.
                    "Uncle Roseladies will tell you," threatened Aquilla.
                    " Well, Cousin Sarah won't go against her coun-
                        try," retorted Penn. " And if aunt Jane from Greensburg
                        comes, you can have her, anyway."
                    "I ain't saying that I'm glad
                        England's the stronger," argued Aquilla.
                    "Ask Dan what he thinks," suggested
                        Willie, bringing forward the only other available voter he could call to
                        mind.
                    Aquilla hooted. "Dan Marsh! He don't know
                        anything about the English navy."
                    " He lives in a boat," claimed Willie. " He ought
                        to know."
                    "And that's a lovely way to live," said Sister.
                        "They can move every day and never tear their things up a
                        bit."
                    "Ony they can't keep a cow," objected Willie.
                        "So Dan has to come and ask Mrs. MacAllister for sweet milk and
                        buttermilk!"
                    "They could keep it on the bank," said Penn.
                    
                    "They'd have to load her on the boat," urged
                        Willie. " Dan's coon lives on the boat, and some- times he
                        has to be chained."
                    Mr. Smith's voice in colloquy with an unseen person now wrought
                        sudden silence around the revolving table. "That's
                        Dan," announced Willie.
                    It was Dan, moving with cat-cushioned bare feet across the kitchen foor. He
                        appeared, carry ing the tin coffee-boiler which his mother usually sent for
                        skim-milk or buttermilk.
                    Dan was a lean, long boy in his earliest teens, tanned so brown that the sun
                        could scarcely do more now than emphasize the work of past sum- mers. His
                        hickory shirt-sleeve was split to the shoulder, and Dan had burst the
                        wristband as a shackle from his wrist. The drapery hung down his side, and
                        his golden-red muscles stood promi- nent on the slim arm-bones. A pair of
                        butternut- colored trousers and a straw hat without the top of the crown,
                        completed Dan's dress. His feet arched across the door-sill, his
                        toes playing rest- lessly upon the dining-room carpet while he looked at the
                        children without saying a word. He had 
                        beautiful long-lashed eyes, with such a light in them as you see shining
                        from pebbles under the water; and an oval, angelic face. Though so slim, he
                        was straight as a young sycamore; and not afraid of the most august presence
                        in the world.
                    "Come and have some tea. We're eating on the whirling table
                        to-night," exclaimed the boys.
                    " Been to my supper," responded Dan with the deliberate
                        intonation of the Lower Wabash.
                    " Well, put your old kettle down there, and le's go and
                        play."
                    Penn left his place like a hurricane, and the dreamy Aquilla dropped his
                        napkin under the table to follow. Sister went around the board, putting the
                        napkins in the rings, replacing dish covers and smoothing the tablecloth,
                        while the boys burst through the back door, Dan dropping his coffee-pot with
                        a final bang on the last step.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II.
                        THE UNITED DIGGERS.
                    IT was about sunset, and the Wabash River had all the milk
                        and fire and changeable green tints of opals. It came in a broad volume
                        round a bend betwixt hills in the north, and spread around sand-banks,
                        islands, and across pebbledshallows,in some places pouring a swift current
                        and in others oozing half asleep against drift; so the distance seemed long
                        front the east shore to the west.
                    Dan's skiff was pulled half out of the water and the boys went down
                        the slope toward it.
                    The old building which many years before had been a flourishing country
                        academy, was square, and built of brick, with mighty pillars supporting the
                        porch. It had wings at the sides and various juts of additions. The old bell
                        still hung in the high belfry. The hall extended across the whole  front of the house, but was deep enough only for a
                        stairway to sidle up out of it in bewildered and crisscross fashion. Tubs of
                        blooming oleanders and large-leaved plants stood in this hall where the
                        summer sun reached them through mighty and many-paned windows.
                    Upstairs remained the academy schoolroom with its platform across one end.
                        The seats had long been removed; no maps or blackboards marred the walls; in
                        fact, all traces of work had disap peared and it was the nicest play
                        schoolroom you ever saw, where you could shout and make your voice echo in
                        derision of the schoolmaster who used to forbid whispering there. Then the
                        plat- form could be used as a stage for shows.
                    Mr. Roseladies meant to cut the schoolroom up into several apartments, but no
                        actual change re- sulted. He did not like the noise of carpenters, and as
                        Sarah and himself were the only remaining members of his family and the
                        house was large for them, he studied and mused, and nothing was done His
                        father had left him a comfortable property, and remodeled this academy for a
                        homestead.  The architecture was the same as
                        that of the State House, and all solid temples of learning of its day.
                    Dan Marsh and his following formed a small po- litical knot on the gravel by
                        his boat. Dan had the advantage of the other three boys in that he could
                        worm his toes through wet sand while they could only stamp across in
                        restless shoes.
                    "Who is the English, anyhow? " asked Dan with unabashed
                        countenance.
                    Aquilla wondered how Dan Marsh could move and have his being with such blanks
                        in his mind. But Penn explained the case with fervor.
                    " Pshaw," drawled Dan, having his hands in his pockets and
                        his straight nose slightly lifted at the nostrils by scorn. "I
                        don't keer nothing about them. Let them keep as
                        many boats as they want to. On our side the river we've got a sword
                        that the state of Illinois give to one of our gen'r'ls for
                        fightin' in the Mexican war. I've seen that sword and
                        there's pictur's on it from one end to the other. The
                        folks keeps its case all wrapped up. And what do I keer about the English?
                        I'd a  heap sight rather know
                        what's in that mound right over the river."
                    The boys looked at a rugged hill crowded with trees, rocks and brush. The
                        setting sun sifted through foliage on its summit. There were dusk hollows
                        and black shades over the whole side to- ward them. It was the most
                        prominent point be- yond the opposite bluffs.
                    "That mound," said Dan, "is the Shawnee
                        burying' mound."
                    "The Shawnees were just Indians," burst out Aquilla,
                        "and the English are a great big nation."
                    "Well, if them Indians had got after you," pur- sued Dan,
                        calmly ignoring the question he was to have voted upon,
                        "you'd thought they was big enough. But they was very
                        friendly with white folks before the last of them left. And I can show you
                        their council-ring in the woods. If a fellow could git into that mound
                        he'd see sights."
                    "What's in it, Dan? urged Willie.
                    Dan mused, fixing his eyes across the river.
                    " Down to the station there is a man that has found lots of jugs and
                        stone axes, and kittles the  Indians buried
                        along the shores. Some of 'em he sent to the Smithsonian Institute
                        to Washin'ton."
                    Aquilla drew closer and felt that Dan was more respectable than he had
                        supposed.
                    Penn was grasping the subject in silence.
                    "That man'd like to git into the Shawnee
                        mound," said Dan.
                    " Why doesn't he do it, then? " inquired Aquilla.
                        The Lower Wabash boy turned upon him with a sneer.
                    "Why, don't you know nothin' about your own State
                        and the one alongside of it? You better let the English alone and tend to
                        home. Don't you know Mr. Roseladies' grandfather owned all
                        that ground as well as this, and he promised them In- dians their
                        buryin' ground shouldn't never be etched while grass
                        growed and water run? They smoked a pipe together, and he made an oath for
                        all his children to keep. I've heard my granny tell that tale since
                        the very first I can recollect. Time and ag'in men have come along
                        and wanted to see what was in that hill. But the word always was,
                        'No, sir, you can't do it.'"
                    
                    "I wouldn't care about doing
                        it," said Aquilla.
                    "Well, you couldn't, anyhow," said Penn.
                        "If they promised the Indians."
                    Pursued Dan, "My granny can remember some of the old Indian squaws.
                        And the chief's son is in that mound."
                    "It's all just bones," said Aquilla.
                    "'There's stone kittles and jugs and
                        axes," enumerated Dan, "and strings of Indian
                        beads."
                    "I'd like to see them," murmured Willie.
                    "The young chief had a gold band, what went around his head for a
                        crown, like. They stuck feathers into it. And my granny says a squaw told
                        her there was a stone jar put alongside of him with the top cemented on. And
                        that jar was brimfull of gold money."
                    The old charm which has stirred boy's blood generation after
                        generation, begun to work in Dan's hearers.
                    "Oh, pshaw," said Penn Bidgood, making an effort against
                        it. "That ain't like Captain Kidd, 'cause he
                        meant to dig his up again, but the young chief couldn't do
                        that"
                    
                    "The Indians always put something by their dead folks,"
                        explained Dan with dignity. "They thought it was a long road, and
                        their folks needed clothes and vittles and their way paid. And some- times
                        they built a fire."
                    " I'd like to see the crown," remarked Aquilla.
                        "Do you s'pose he is near the top?"
                    "And what's the use of that money's staying
                        there?" inquired Penn. "They oughtn't to have
                        promised not to dig sometime."
                    All the boys looked down on the gravel and Willie stooped to pick up a
                        crinoid. " Here's an Indian bead," said he,
                        rubbing it clean on his trou- sers and intending to give it to Sister.
                    "The banks is full of them," said Dan, with disdain.
                    " Say, Quill," suggested Penn, "uncle likes to
                        have you siting around with him reading. You ask if we can't make
                        just a little hole in that mound."
                    "'Twon't do you a bit of good," said the
                        river- boy stolidly. " He's bound to say no as long as
                        grass grows or water runs. If somebody was to 
                        go and dig in unbeknowin' to him," mused Dan, jerking a
                        stone into the river, "specially some- body that was kin but
                        hadn't made any promise, maybe he wouldn't care so bad. It
                        wouldn't be my place to go there alone and do it. There's
                        boys have tried to hire me many a time," he con- fessed virtuously,
                        "but I wouldn't no more do it than fly."
                    "I tell you what we'll do," burst out Penn-
                        "if none of you run and tattle."
                    "I don't tattle," denied Aquilla from the plane of
                        his superiority.
                    "And I don't," said Willie with a tang of in-
                        jury. But Dan only uttered a grunt of contempt at the bare thought
                    "We'll form a society to dig into that mound. Us four. And
                        we'll call ourselves the United Diggers."
                    "The United Band of Heroic Diggers," amended Aquilla.
                    "I'm in it, ain't I?" said Willie.
                    " Yes," granted Penn. " But don't you
                        ever let Sister know what we're up to."
                    
                    "I won't," said Willie.
                    "And if anybody catches us, don't you take the blame to
                        yourself, because I started it."
                    Willie looked doubtful on this point, but Aquilla resented it: "I
                        guess I started it as much as you did, Penn Bidgood."
                    "'Tisn't started yet," observed Dan
                        slowly. " We ain't took oath to dig as long as grass grows
                        or water runs."
                    "That'll just be in the summer," said Willie,
                        "'cause grass don't grow and water don't
                        run in the winter."
                    "Till we find that stone jar," said Dan. "And
                        we'll never durse to let anybody see us diggin' .
                        'Tisn't started till we've took our oath and got
                        our spades and sighted the spot."
                    Twilight was succeeding to sunset. A solemn light played over the river. The
                        boys gazed at that Shawnee mound which grew every moment more
                        irresistible.
                    There was a rattle of carriage harness up the slope, and they saw Uncle
                        Roseladies turn the horses before the door. Mr. Smith was at hand  to hold the bits. Then the old gentleman got stiffy
                        down from his front seat, and helped out Sarah and Mrs. MacAllister. Sarah
                        ran into the house, but Mrs. MacAllister marched, laden to her chin, with
                        grocery packages which she allowed m> body to buy but herself.
                    The deaf uncle swept his eyes over the river landscape, saw the boys, and
                        lifted his hat.
                    They all pulled at their head coverings except Dan, and not another word was
                        said about the United Diggers as they trooped up hill.
                    Dan was going to get his buttermilk and row back with it. The sight of Mr.
                        Roseladies could not alter any purpose of his. He cast an inquir- ing glance
                        on each side and hinted, "Them that's concluded not to
                        take the oath, better out with it."
                    "We aren't such babies, declared Penn. "Only it
                        made me feel mean to see Uncle take of his hat to us just
                        then."
                    " Well, you come over to my house to-morrow night," said
                        Dan. "Folks is goin' to granny's, and
                        we'll take the oath and smoke a pipe."
                    
                    "What'll be in the pipe?" inquired Willie.
                    "Just dried catnip leaves. And smokin' that," said
                        Dan with a solemn chill in his voice which went down the other
                        conspirators' spines, "will turn us into United
                        Diggers."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                        COUSIN SARAH'S AWFUL SECRET.
                    MRS. MACALLSTER set out a ubstntial cold supper for the
                        master of the house, his daughter and himself, and added a pot of hot tea
                        made over the spirit-furnace. Over the same furnace, with small consumption
                        of spirit, she heated water, and soon had the china washed and put in place.
                        Then her long housekeeping apron was laid aside, and another, which might be
                        called her nursery apron, tied over her lustrous black cashmere. Mr. Smith
                        knew he must milk the cows, strain the milk in the cellar and leave his tins
                        exquisitely clean. He must also lay his kitch- en fire ready to light. Mrs.
                        MacAllister was the mainspring of this house and its inhabitants. She not
                        only did the work, but kept all accounts and bought all provisions. She felt
                        pride in her  position. There was a great
                        difference between that and the position of Mr. Smith whom she con- sidered
                        merely her servant. Mr. Smith took kindly to his place, and would on no
                        account have eaten out of the kitchen or have rated himself with so great a
                        woman as the housekeeper, though all his acquaintances in the country round
                        provoked him to rebellion.
                    Having her dominion so well in hand, Mrs. MacAllister was not put out by five
                        children in the house, one of them barely three years old and requiring a
                        nurse's attentions. Nor was she dis- pleased because aunt Jane from
                        Greensburg, a Roseladies by marriage only, had failed to arrive and take
                        charge of the entire family. She thought she could manage ten children, for
                        she had parti- ally brought up Sarah; and if there was anything Mrs.
                        MacAllister disliked it was to have a woman of her own age, but of superior
                        worldly advantages, coming into the house to upset its smooth routine.
                    She therefore, a little after dusk, began to send the children to bed, as she
                        would patiently but persistently drive truant poultry to the proper  roost. Sister and Honora were easily got into
                        a small and a large bed in the room next to Cousin Sarah's. Cousin
                        Sarah wanted to have the flock under her charge. But Mrs. MacAllister never
                        failed to undress the baby and keep a superintend- ing eye upon the others.
                        The boys did not go so meekly to their couches. She had to warn them out of
                        trees, or off the roofs of the wings, or call them up from the river, or
                        argue them out of the old school-room if they went in there with a lamp and
                        locked the door.
                    Though so precise in her appearance, Mrs. Mac- Allister was even-tempered and
                        the children liked her. She was quite straight and thin, with smooth auburn
                        hair folded over her ears and uniting in a small button just above her
                        collar. She had a bent-down nose and flattened mouth, but even on wash-days
                        her dress remained neat enough to re- ceive company in. When arrayed in full
                        grandeur she wore a gearing at the back of her head made by Sarah of lace
                        and purple ribbon, which hid the button of hair and made an effective
                        background for her placid face.
                    
                    This evening Sister did not want to go to bed at half-past eight. The boys
                        would yell and play, and Mrs. MacAllister would follow them, figuratively
                        with the sand-man's box in her hand, for half an hour longer. The
                        doors and windows stood open and there was such a large moon. Sister sat on
                        the deep window-sill. Outside there was no eye to see her. There were deep
                        woods in the dis- tance, and near by, moist-looking shadows made by
                        shrubbery. You could hear some frogs which lived in the back-water of the
                        Wabash, and the deep bull-note of the river frog.
                    Cousin Sarah was playing on her piano in the parlor. And Sister knew Cousin
                        Sarah's father was sitting close to the keys with his hand behind
                        his ear.
                    Some nights, she believed, were made on pur- pose to keep people awake having
                        a good time. Sister really wished she might start out and saunter all over
                        this country which looked so different by daylight. She was not timid or
                        nervous. But no other little girl had done such a thing, and the friends of
                        most little girls would object to such a 
                        course. Sister thought when she was grown she would let her children do just
                        as they pleased.
                    Then her mind dwelt on her father and mother who were by this time nearly
                        across the ocean. It was a dangerous theme for an affectionate child. All
                        the distance betwixt herself and them seemed crowded with the naughty things
                        she had done. Now she wished herself with them, and now she was torn by
                        parting from Penn and Willie. It seemed as if people never could be quite
                        easy in this world.
                    After awhile the boys made a rush to their room, and Mrs. MacAllister could
                        be heard locking doors. Then Cousin Sarah said, "Good-night,
                        papa," in a distinct shout, and ran upstairs in a rustle of mus-
                        lins beneath which you could not hear a footfall. Cousin Sarah was one of
                        those light and pliant girls who appear to get about without treading. You
                        never heard her shoe-soles squeaking along the hall, and not even the tap of
                        a slipper-heel emphasized her walk. She moved in undulations, and one of her
                        young admirers wondered if Sister Bidgood could ever move as silently and
                        beauti- fully as Cousin Sarah, apparently on the bottom  of her dress. Yet none of Cousin Sarah's
                        dresses were quite long though she was a young lady seven- teen years old.
                        She wore a great deal of white and blue and lavender-gray. She had not very
                        pretty features, and there was a light, half-trans- parent powder of
                        freckles over them. Still, to the children, Cousin Sarah was a phantom of
                        delight. She had soft hair which would roll up easily into puffs or curls,
                        or stand out in an ashes-of-roses nimbus all around her head, and her hands
                        and arms were beautiful. Every gesture she made went in curves. Cousin Sarah
                        never had been known to knock things over, or stick her elbows out like
                        spear-points. She had a great many dimples with- out being very plump, and
                        her voice could rise high and clear without a rasping note in its mellow
                        range. Besides, she was an accomplished young lady. She could play on the
                        piano and had stu- died through a large stack of school-books. Her
                        water-color paintings were Sister's admiration, and her embroidery
                        and hemstitching, her scented, orderly bureau-drawers, and casket of laces,
                        were beyond all imitation.
                    
                    Sister Bidgood never could be as nice as Cousin Sarah. Some girls will play
                        with the boys, and rub their stockings through at the heel without aspiring
                        to learn how to darn, and care more for outdoors than for the most beautiful
                        of houses. Sister never doubted that Cousin Sarah had always been a model to
                        girls. Such a being as she would not want to wade out to the first sand-bar,
                        or run without her bonnet, or roll side- wise down a grassy slope. It was
                        discouraging to young amazons. But lately Sister had been prac- ticing soft
                        domestic ways. She keyed her voice low, and slipped about after Cousin
                        Sarah, some- times even taking to a needle.
                    She heard her pattern moving about in the next room for a long time.
                        Sometimes Sarah spoke a word or two and sometimes she hummed a tune. The
                        door between the rooms was ajar, and Sister concluded to get off the
                        window-sill and go in to Cousin Sarah. The formality of knocking she avoided
                        by calling in a whisper through the crack.
                    The young lady sprung up with a scream, flung 
                        her drawers shut, and slammed a wardrobe, lock- ing it in the very act.
                    "Oh, what's the matter!" pleaded Sister in
                        fright.
                    "I thought you were all asleep," said Cousin Sarah. She
                        laughed and looked hurriedly around her room.
                    "I'm not," explained Sister Bidgood. "Did
                        I scare you?"
                    "Yes, dreadfully."
                    "I didn't mean to. The moon's so bright I
                        couldn't go to sleep. And you were up, so I thought I'd
                        come in."
                    "You didn't see what I was doing, did you?"
                        inquired Miss Roseladies with a penetrating ex- pression.
                    " No," replied Sister, wondering if Cousin Sarah could be
                        making Christmas things in summer, or working up some beautiful surprise.
                        But her lamp was out and she had nothing but the moon- light.
                    " You didn't see me hide a little dog or monkey or
                        kitten?"
                    
                    " No," breathed Sister, staring.
                    "I have an awful secret," said Cousin Sarah. "Did
                        you ever do anything silly, Sister?" Sister should think she had!
                        Almost every day she made a goose of herself, and once at school she fell
                        asleep and dreamed it was noon, and got up beginning to dance and shout in
                        the midst of a recitation.
                    " But I thought you never did anything," she added,
                        transfixed between wonder and satisfac- tion.
                    "Oh, I do. I have a fetich--that's a charm that brings out
                        all my foolishness--and you would be astonished to see me caper around
                        it." If this perfect Cousin Sarah cut capers, Sister had more hopes
                        of growing to be somebody than she ever before entertained.
                    "Maybe to-morrow I'll confess the whole thing if you can
                        keep the secret. It's an awful secret. I'd be ashamed to
                        have papa or Mrs. MacAllister know it, or the boys. And if aunt Jane should
                        come and find it out, where would your disgraced cousin hide her head?
                        "
                    
                    
                        COUSIN SARAH LOOKED HURRIEDLY ROUND THE ROOM
                    
                    
                    " O, indeed I won't tell l" promised Sister;
                        "and I didn't see a glimpse of it myself."
                    Cousin Sarah kissed her.
                    " You run back to bed now, and I'll get you to help me
                        break off my ridiculous habits. Maybe if I had a little sister I
                        shouldn't be so babyish my- self when I'm seventeen years
                        old."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IV.
                        A RIVER-HOUSE.
                    THE boys had no room in their minds for thoughts of aunt Jane
                        andherfailuretoar- rive from Greensburg. It sufficed that she was not there to inspect them. By evening of the next day they
                        had talked whole books to each other about mound-digging. They had shovelled
                        out armies of Indians in a mummied state, each hold- ing a crock of money in
                        his extended hand, and discovered a cavern which would thenceforward be
                        their den and secret headquarters. Willie claimed all the pappooses and
                        wanted exceedingly to give Sister her pick of them, and Honora a nice one to
                        play with. Penn and Aquilla had not a much clearer vision of what they were
                        about to undertake. They knew it was something lawless and fierce, something
                        that demanded whispering  and sign-making; but
                        they did not doubt their muscular ability to shovel acres of earth or pile
                        up cords of resurrected savages. Indians as wooden and as little to be
                        respected as those ladies and gentlemen who stand oustide of cigar shops,
                        peo- pled the Shawnee mound.
                    Directly after supper the boys flew down and pushed off Uncle
                        Roseladies' boat. They were used to rowing up and down and playing
                        in the shallow water; therefore nobody regarded them with dismay, except
                        Sister whom Cousin Sarah had promised a pull up stream to a bar where the
                        pret- tiest periwinkle shells abounded.
                    " But you'll bring the boat in before dusk, won't
                        you, Penn?" she called from the slope, with the downward inflection
                        of assurance.
                    But no promise, not even the wave of a hand, came back to her. The boys
                        pretended they heard her not. It was desirable to avoid inquir- ies. Penn
                        put his strength to the oars and panted, while Quill and Willie fixed their
                        eyes upon Dan's anchored residence at the other side of the
                        river.
                    It was a cloudy evening, and gusts played along 
                        theater. You could hear the groan of the wind away off, and sudden black
                        stripes like bruised places, shuddered upon the river. The moon would be up
                        later and she might be so wadded with clouds as to give no light at all.
                        This was a fit evening on which to go forth and form secret societies. Penn
                        had never seen the Wabash in stormy weather, and he felt a little disturbed
                        about the return and about Willie. Penn could swim; he might also be able to
                        help keep one other boy's head above water. There were two boys be-
                        sides himself in the boat, and he wished one of them was not Willie.
                    "It tips," said Aquilla uneasily, as the water
                        freshened.
                    "Well, do you want to go back?"said Penn, scowling.
                    " We're more than half way to Dan's
                        boat," said Willie and he's out on the front part of it,
                        too."
                    The boat which Dan inhabited was shaped somewhat like a barge. The prow and
                        stern pro- jected so as to make small pointed platforms or  porches. Dan stood on the forward platform and his
                        pet coon rolled in awkward gambols beside him. It snarled at the approaching
                        boys and had to be driven within the door. Dan shook his head backwards and
                        made many cautious signals, until Penn began to keep the skiff off and guard
                        it from running aground across the barge's prow.
                    " O, come on," whispered Dan. "That isn't
                        it."
                    " What's the matter, anyhow? "
                    "They're both at home," said Dan between his
                        hands. " Don't say anything."
                    He lay hat down, caught their side and shoved them well upon the sand. The
                        barge was tied to trees upon shore and well sheltered behind a rocky jut
                    Penn shipped his oars and climbed up on the large boat. Aquilla and Willie
                        followed.
                    " Don't say anything," repeated Dan. "
                        We'll take the pipe and go up the bank a piece. They concluded they
                        wouldn't go to Granny's to-night"
                    Mrs. Marsh came to the door and invited Dan's guests in. They passed
                        through room, in which were two bunks, and a quantity of clothing hang-  ing on the wall. A smell of weak coffee
                        scented the boat, for in the remaining room stood a table, and there the
                        boat-master was eating his supper. He was a bushy, surly-looking man,
                        spreading to, whisker as a gooseberry shrub spreads to thorny foliage, and
                        he glowered at the boys before giving them a short good-evening. Aquilla
                        thought he would make a bold pirate if he had a plumed hat, a belt and
                        sword, but instead of attacking the few freight boats working up and down
                        the Wa- bash, this man's peaceful employment was cutting wood on
                        shore when he could get a job to do, and fishing with seines and trot-lines
                        when he could not.
                    There were a cooking-stove and a cupboard in this room, besides some
                        splint-bottomed chairs, three of which Mrs. Marsh set in a row, asking the
                        boys to "take cheers."
                    They sat, holding their hats in their hands, feel- ing much balked about the
                        pipe of catnip.
                    She said it looked like a storm, and Aquilla re- sponded yes it did, upon
                        which Mr. Marsh stared at him like an ogre and growled that folks
                        living'  on shore better take to the
                        river when high waters come.
                    Mrs. Marsh responded yes indeed, when other people was all overflowed, they had a good home. You ought to seen Shawneetown under
                        water the last flood, she added. Some lost all their things and had to run
                        to high places; and there you could only see the roofs of the houses
                        stickin' out. For her part she liked a boat, and then you could
                        live away up yander or away down yander, just as you's a mine
                        to.
                    "It's something like Noah's Ark," said
                        Aquilla, on whom Penn and Willie left all the burden of conversation.
                    Mr. Marsh glared at him in a manner to quicken his pulses. He wondered what
                        there was about Noah's Ark which Mr. Marsh could object to, and
                        after suffering a moment, tried to appease him by declaring this boat was
                        lots newer than Noah's Ark and hadn't so many animals in
                        it.
                    Mr. Marsh inquired if it was churnin' day up to the house. She
                        considered "the house" a store from which she could draw
                        various supplies; she  was interested in the
                        ripening of the apples and grapes, and often knew before Mrs. MacAllister
                        that currants were turning red! as to the surplus milk, she considered it
                        her own as long as the barge anchored near it.
                    Aquilla asked Penn if it was churning day up at the house ; Penn put the
                        question past to Willie, and Willie squirmed in the distress of ignorance
                        upon his chair. They could hear the water wash higher and higher on the
                        sides of the boat, and feel that it swayed in its shelter. A continuous roar
                        came through the woods, which might be fall- ing rain, and they wished they
                        were in it instead of in Mr. Marsh's eyes. He reached his muscular
                        arm across the table and harpooned food as if he wished to be cruel to it,
                        and then fastening his eyes on the boys, ground with his bushy jaws as if
                        lie were steadily eating his way to them. Even Mrs. Marsh, though she was a
                        hospitable woman, seemed to wonder what business brought them to the boat,
                        if they carried no tidings of fresh butter- milk.
                    All this time Dan leaned against the casing of 
                        the inner door, supporting himself first on one foot and then on the other,
                        at intervals kicking the coon back to renew its monotonous march toward the
                        intruders.
                    He cast secret looks and half winks at the boys and they waited for him to be
                        their deliverer. Mr. Marsh might object to their going out with a great
                        rush. He might intend to hold them all night in the boat since they had put
                        themselves in his way. Penn was twelve years old, yet he experienced ob-
                        jections to Mr. Marsh as strong as Willie's.
                    Aquilla felt the silence growing painful like a stricture, and he caught at
                        some subject which might interest and mollify Mr. Marsh.
                    "One shell-boat, one gun-boat and eight wooden ships make up the
                        navy of Japan," he remarked.
                    Mr. Marsh suspended harpooning a slice of bread, and gazed at him. Aquilla
                        felt he had somehow made a mistake, and tried to remedy it.
                    "Kings when they were nine years old used to have to get married.
                        I'm glad I wasn't a king in those days," he
                        said.
                    At this Mr. Marsh's face underwent a change.  It broadened and shortened, and wrinkles gath- ered
                        around his eyes. You could not see through the hair exactly what his
                        emotions were, but he seemed to turn what had been said over and over in his
                        mind, and it visibly affected him.
                    Having finished his meal, he arose, keeping his eye particularly fixed on
                        Aquilla. He took a pipe from his pocket, and filled it. This was the mo-
                        ment for which Dan had waited. Mrs. Marsh began to clear the table, and Dan
                        based himself on both feet, saying indifferently: "Come on, boys,
                        le's go up the bank a piece."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER V.
                        THE CATNIP-PIPE AND ITS WITNESS.
                    HOW much farther is it?" panted Willie, when he thought they had
                        left the river miles behind them.
                    Dan said he was "only drowning' the duck." He was
                        winding in and out among rocks and trees and mysteriously creeping on his
                        hands and knees behind fallen logs. The other boys imitated him, scratching
                        their trousers and hands. Willie car- ried the marks of blackberry briers;
                        they seemed to claw him like spiteful cats.
                    " The duck's about drowned," said Penn decid-
                        edly. "It's been sprinkling ever since we started, and
                        we'll be drowned ourselves if you keep on."
                    " Right down there's the river," responded Dan.
                        You can easy get to the boat. I'lowed first I'd take you
                        to the mound.'
                    
                    "But we've been gone a long time already, and
                        they'll miss us at the house," urged Aquilla.
                        "And Mrs. MacAllister will want to know what we've been
                        doing over here."
                    Dan now took from his pocket a hollow corn- cob having a stem thrust into the
                        side. The bunch of dried catnip followed. He had first to ravel a string and
                        then jerk a fish-hook with the worm mummied upon-it, from the bunch.
                    The cob pipe being loaded with the herb, Dan again returned to his pocket for
                        a match; this time he turned the dirt-colored bag wrong side out and put its
                        contents back piece-meal, coming upon the bunch of lucifers only to find
                        their heads nearly all imbedded in a lump of sandy taffy.
                    "Now, sir," said Dan, addressing the assembly, and culling
                        out his match-heads to save from pat- tering rain under his hat,
                        "we've all got to take the oath."
                    He was on his knees at the roots of a stump which would shelter a weak flame,
                        and the boys stood by, rain-pelted and anxious for the rite.
                    Gray, damp twilight was on the river, but in the  woods night itself made awful glooms among the barky trunks and
                        close-huddled thickets. The bunchy foliage of pecan trees would have shut
                        out all after-glow had there been any.
                    Aquilla turned his jacket collar up to his white ears. He felt chilly, and
                        his active mind peopled the woods with moving figures.
                    "What if the Shawnees are around here watch- ing us, he suggested,
                        " and would let a lot of ar- rows fly in among us the minute we did
                        it."
                    Willie uttered a bleat.
                    " Hush up!" said Penn indignantly. "What do you
                        want to scare a little fellow for, Quill?"
                    "The Shawnees couldn't hurt you," observed Dan,
                        addressing his youngest follower with a lifted and courageous voice.
                        "Nor nothin' else in these woods. I hadn't seen
                        any wildcat in my lifetime, and taggers only goes in shows
                        now."
                    "What you going to have for the oath?" put forth Penn
                        impatiently.
                    Dan struck a match, sheltered its flame, and then thrust it into the catnip,
                        and smoked it.
                    "You say 'Deed and double, cross my heart  and 'pon my word and honor, if I
                        don't dig in that there mound till I End them things, while grass
                        grows and water runs. Unbeknownst to anybody.' Then you pull a
                        whiff at the pipe."
                    Penn said deed and double, cross his heart and 'pon his word and
                        honor, he would dig at the mound till he found the things while grass grew
                        and water ran. Unbeknown to anybody. He pulled at the pipe, made a face, and
                        passed it on.
                    Aquilla said, Deed and double, cross his heart, and upon his word and honor, he would dig in the mound while grass grew and
                        water ran, until he found the chief's crown and money; and tell
                        nobody, drawing the pipe and uttering a nauseated cough.
                    Willie stumbled anxiously through his part, say- ing, Deed and double,
                        'pon his heart and cross his honor he would dig in the mound till
                        grass grew and water run, and not know anything about it; feeling homesick,
                        and not in harmony with the three bold spirits who put him to such
                        trials.
                    "When a fellow crosses his heart and'pons his word and
                        honor," warned Dan, shaking his head and explaining the nature of
                        the oath, "he's  got to do
                        what he says, or he's a goner. We've all took it, so now
                        we're united."
                    "What's that!" demanded Aquilla sharply.
                    They all knew that a bush near them was be- ginning to shake. A low, mumbling
                        growl issued therefrom, and even Penn was sure he saw a head of some sort.
                        "Come out!" he dared the un- named thing, grabbing a
                        stick. "You just come out of that and we'll let you have
                        it!"
                    They all four stood their ground. Then some- thing did begin to arise from
                        the bush, and as it rose, it uttered a howl which pierced all the
                        woods' distances and was thrown by the echoing hill across Wabash
                        River.
                    The boys rolled against stumps, caught them- selves by rocks, ran against
                        trees, plunged shoul- der-deep in green burs and blackberry vine, scarcely
                        knowing whether they rolled or ran. Dog-like pantings burst from their
                        throats. Penn tried to seize and pilot Willie, who began to utter a note of
                        alarm at the start and finished it only when he plunged all-fours into the
                        skiff, Penn and Aquilla after him.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI.
                        A CHILL.
                    ABOUT ten o'clock Mrs. MacAllister heard feet shuffling at the back
                        door.
                    Mr. Roseladies, Sarah, and Sister were waiting about the house in suspense
                        and looking out of various windows against a dead wall of darkness and rain.
                        A fire was built in the back parlor on account of Mr. Roseladies'
                        rheumatism. He had searched for the boys until he was wet and full of
                        twinges. Mr. Smith had walked a distance to borrow a boat, and had since
                        been breasting with it the disturbed Wabash, straining his eyes for arms or
                        legs or bits of clothing which might float above the surface, and listening
                        for cries of ship wreck from sandbar or island.
                    Justice demands that all the unnecessary anguish which boys cause their
                        guardians, ought after  wards to be extracted
                        from the truants themselves. But no process of doing this has been
                        discovered.
                    Mrs. MacAllister had endured much since eight o'clock. She had seen
                        herself upbraided by Aunt Jane, the Greensburg guardian, and the parents of
                        those boys had stood around her demanding their children. Mr. Roseladies,
                        who had trusted in her, was again rheumatic from exposure, and Sarah had
                        seen the housekeeper was a woman of lax management. She made her hottest
                        ginger and pepper teas, and resolved if those boys came back without hurt,
                        she would dose them well and keep such a hand on them in the future as they
                        could not help feeling at eight o'clock in the even- ing.
                    Penn, Aquilla and Willie came stamping through the back door, with Mr.
                        Smith's lantern illumina- ting their tracks on the exquisite
                        kitchen floor. They were drenched to the skin and made pud- dles where they
                        stood sheepishly by the stove. Everybody came to inspect them and ask ques-
                        tions. Mr. Smith said he found them in the middle of the river ready to
                        swamp with their boat  full of water. Penn
                        growled and would have re- fused the pepper tea, but Mr. Roseladies, having
                        learned this fact, commanded them all to drink, while he held his watch in
                        his hand and timed the exercise. Willie wept into his bowl. Aquilla
                        obediently swallowed often, without lowering the flood dished up for his
                        portion. But Penn gulped fiercely and turned red in the face. He felt mad at
                        Dan. He felt mad at his Uncle Roseladies and the housekeeper, and enraged at
                        himself.
                    Sister sidled from one to another, willing to kiss away the drenching and the
                        scalding. But Cousin Sarah laughed at them and saw their clinging garments
                        and hair and the steam which stove-heat sent up from them. They were United
                        Sufferers as well as United Diggers.
                    However, in the morning, Penn felt new. His shame receded as the water had
                        dried from his clothes, and he again took an interest in life. But Willie
                        had a sore throat, and Aquilla said he did not know what in the world was
                        the matter with him. He woke in a sad frame of mind and yawned often as he
                        tried to dress himself. He did not  usually try
                        to finish dressing, but waited for Mrs. MacAllister to finish him, in spite
                        of Penn's sneers. Aquilla had been waited on all his life. Besides
                        he had read that young English gentlemen are at- tended by nurses until they
                        are old enough to have valets of their own, and considering himself a young
                        American gentleman, he meant to exact his privileges to the utmost. But this
                        morning he was anxious to get downstairs, and thrust himself with nervous
                        haste into any garment, that would do. Downstairs proved no refuge. He felt
                        an agony of nausea. His finger-nails and lips turned blue, and cold
                        possessed him, hounding him out when he crouched even behind the kitchen
                        stove. How dreadful it was to feel as if you were going to die on a morning
                        when the drenched grass was drying to a brilliant green fleece, when the sun
                        was hot and delightful, and everybody else meant to have the best kind of a
                        day!
                    Mrs. MacAllister kept her eye on him as she dished the breakfast. Penn had
                        already gone whooping to the barn to see Mr. Smith milk. Aquilla thought the
                        sun might warm him, and he  crept over the
                        doorstep and stood where it could beat upon him as strongly as a morning sun
                        can ever bring itself to beat. But it only made him colder, and so sick that
                        he lay down along a bench where Mrs. MacAllister required the milk tins to
                        be sunned. Then he tried to resist shaking, but shook until his teeth
                        rattled together, and when he clenched his jaws they still worked in nervous
                        spasms.
                    " You've got the ague," said Mrs. MacAllister,
                        causing him to rise from the bench. She helped him into the house and
                        mourned as they went:
                    " Now we're in for it, every other day or every third day,
                        and I told you boys to keep out of that water, for they say there's
                        malaria in it if you will go swimming and keep getting wet to the
                        skin."
                    " But this was the rain," chattered Aquilla.
                    "Yes, a spindling boy like you has no business to play out-doors in
                        a storm. Haven't I warned you about the night air and the dew? Now
                        what will your father and mother say, and what will Mrs. Roseladies from
                        Greensburg say, and your uncle that has the rheumatism in his
                        shoulder?"
                    
                    Aquilla did not care what anybody said. His strongest desire was to find some
                        furnace and lie down in the midst of it. He thought a mountain of blankets
                        and hot bricks could not warm him. Mrs. MacAllister piloted him to her own
                        room, and flew at her huge feather bed which had been spread bare to the
                        morning breeze. It was the only one in the house, and she believed there was
                        virtue in it. Besides, she wanted her patient on the lower floor where she
                        could watch him. Aquilla was soon nested amidst blankets and pillows and the
                        woolliest of comforters. He had hot-water bottles in his hands and a hissing
                        iron at his feet. The deadly cold receded from his extremities to his back,
                        and from his back to the arctic regions whence it first came. His teeth
                        ceased to clash and his neck ceased to be wrung. A heavenly drowsiness
                        soothed him after his hard exercise. He felt as if he had run until
                        exhaustion overtook him, and rest was the sweetest thing in the world. But
                        just as his eyes were swimming under their lids, a sense of smothering woke
                        him. He pushed off the hot-water bottles and kicked the iron. His  back ached more than tongue could express, and be was
                        burning up. Comforters and blankets were cast overboard. He wallowed among
                        the feathers and panted for a breath of air--a drink of water. It was just
                        here that Cousin Sarah and Mrs. Mac- Allister both came in. They brought
                        cold water, and he drank believing that he could never get enough. They
                        bathed his face and hands and fanned him, and finally they supported him to
                        the sofa in the cool back parlor. The windows were all open. Aquilla could
                        smell sweet-brier, and the birds came and went, making notes which refreshed
                        him. Cousin Sarah sat by and fanned until he panted himself to sleep, and
                        that was a sleep to remember his whole lifetime: so deep, so cool with
                        returning moisture, so like immersion in health itself.
                    When Aquilla woke the sun was throwing long evening rays across the earth,
                        and the swallows were taking their fish-like dives in every direction before
                        settling. He could hear the cows lowing up toward their milking place, and
                        Sister and Penn and Willie somewhere out-doors calling for  hide and-seek. Cousin Sarah had left his side, but
                        her fan and her heliotrope-scented handker- chief lay on the pillow beside
                        his face.
                    A waft of supper came through the back folding- doors, and Aquilla felt
                        suddenly ferocious with hunger. He wanted griddle-cakes buttered, with maple
                        syrup over them, and he wanted them with- out an instant's waiting.
                        How like a dream com- ing true, how like the fulfilled power of grown
                        people's lives, was it to see Mrs. MacAft ister bring- ing a tray,
                        and on that tray to find griddlecakes buttered and swimming in maple
                        syrup!
                    "That's just wht I wanted," sighed Aquilla with
                        full satisfaction. "The wonderful lamp wouldn't have been
                        any quicker."
                    "A person that's had a shake gets up pretty
                        hungry," remarked the housekeeper. "To-mor- row morning
                        your dosing will begin."
                    " What sort of dosing?" besought Aquilla as he was pillowed
                        up to take the tray upon his knees.
                    " Quinine," said Mrs. MacAllister, sternly.
                        "You've got to have these chills broken up right away.
                        Yes, I know it's bitter, but you can take it  in these cases. I've fixed ten of them ready
                        for you. Your mother would have you take it if she was here, and your Aunt
                        Jane in Greensburg would have you take it if she was here.
                        And if you don't take it quiet, in a case with preserves after it,
                        the doctor will come and make you take it without a case and nothing after
                        it"
                    Aquilla retired early to his own bed, and upon this Penn and Willie climbed
                        when they were sent upstairs. They asked him how he felt.
                    " Very weak," answered Aquilla, who made the most of his
                        ailments. Penn regarded an invalid with aversion.
                    " Willie's had flannel round his neck all day, but he
                        don't grunt."
                    It did hurt me to swallow," amended Willie.
                    "If he'd had his head nearly shaken off, and been so sick
                        he didn't know anything, he'd grunt," said
                        Aquilla, with pale patience. "And now I have to take ten doses of
                        quinine. My mamma ought to have taken me to Europe with her. She'll
                        be sorry when she comes home and finds me dead."
                    
                    " No, she won't," asserted Penn rudely. "
                        She'll get some rest then herself."
                    "Oh," sighed Aquilla, "I've eaten so much
                        I feel as heavy as Louis XIV. of France. Or like old Henry VIII. of England.
                        I do hate him! He was a grease-spot on history. Dickens says so. He had six
                        wives and cut three of their heads off. I wish I could cut his head off!
                        Unless somebody reads to me I will have to lie awake a long time
                        to-night."
                    Willie gazed upon his remarkable cousin with brown-eyed sympathy. He did
                        indeed show a warmth of feeling which people cannot express through light
                        gray.
                    " I could slip down and get Robinson Crusoe, if Penn would help me
                        p'nounce the big words."
                    " O, Robinson Crusoe!" said Aquilla, tossing himself with
                        impatience. "That's like a-b-c to me! If
                        you could get me a history of China, or find a book about Russia, I might
                        pay some atten- tion to you. I've read the histories of most all
                        the European nations except Russia, but I know Peter the Great. The French
                        used to be called  Franks. And one time in
                        France they made it a law that the king was of age at eighteen, and the
                        nobles, too. Common people could be of age at twenty-one, but poor people
                        not till they were twenty-five. Did you know Catherine DeMedicis had three
                        sons that were kings of France?"
                    "No, I didn't," said Penn, resentfully.
                        "But I know your mother and mine have three sons that took to their
                        heels last night. Who do you suppose that was up on the hill? "
                    "L O, I don't know," sighed Aquilla.
                        "' It raised a worse yell than the battle-cry of the
                        Austrians."
                    It was Indians," whispered Willie.
                    "I saw some kind of a head," said Penn. " But it
                        didn't look like a man. If it had been a man or a dog or anything
                        else human, I wouldn't run."
                    "I would," said Willie. "As soon as it yelled at
                        me I'd run."
                    "Dan is bigger than we are," put forth Aquilla,
                        "and he wasn't the last one to start. Now I wonder if
                        he'll want to dig."
                    "Of course he will," said Penn. "We're
                        all going to dig."
                    
                    "At night?" whispered Willie, enlarging his eyes and
                        curving down the corners of his mouth.
                     "Mrs. MacAllister won't let me go out in the night
                        air," warned Aquilla. "I'll have to take more
                        quinine than ever if I do."
                    " O, hum!" hooted Penn. " If Dan groans around I
                        suppose I'll be the only man in the lot. I'm going to dig up the young chief, and you
                        sha'n't even see him. The money'll be mine and
                        the kettle'll be mine, and I'll keep the gold
                        crown."
                    "I want to go along," said Aquilla.
                    " So do I," pleaded Willie.
                    You're afraid," taunted Penn.
                    I ain't any more afraid than Hannibal was," declared
                        Aquilla, rising to his elbow. "And he kept his armies in the
                        enemy's country a good many years."
                    We don't have to dig a good many years," hedged Willie.
                    " But we'll dig, either in dark or daylight," said
                        Penn. The difficulties rose before him also, and he sat mutely thinking of
                        them. It is a serious thing to join a secret society.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VII.
                        BESHAZZARS FEST.
                     AT this time Cousin Sarah had just beckoned Sister into
                        her room, and was in the act of locking both doors.
                    Then Cousin Sarah spread the window curtains wide apart and unfastened the
                        bureau drawers and wardrobe, and Sister knew she was about to be- hold the
                        great secret.
                    "We can have such a nice time in here by our- selves," said
                        the young lady. "I think I'll get you to come and play
                        with me a while every even- ing until I can quit it.
                    "What shall we play?"
                    "Have you many dolls?"
                    Sister replied that she had four, but she only brought the old china and the
                        little one along, because Noanie Jones might tear them up. Her  two waxes were locked at home in mamma's
                        low- est drawer, wrapped in silk, and if burglars broke in and got them she
                        did not know what she should do. One was named Clara Louise, and the other
                        was named Bessie, but Bessie could not shut her eyes.
                    "And don't you love them?" inquired Cousin
                        Sarah.
                    Sister said yes; she never had broken one of them, but played teach them to
                        sew, and read to them when they were good, and they all had the measles when
                        the rest of the family did. "I just pretended that, you
                        know," apologized Sister.
                    Cousin Sarah said she understood.
                    " And what will you do with them, Sister, when you grow to be a
                        young lady? "
                    Sister pushed her fingers through her curly hair and said she would keep on
                        playing with them.
                    "What a delicious little thing you are!" ex- claimed Cousin
                        Sarah. "And wouldn't you be ashamedof it a
                        bit?"
                    " I'd hate to have the boys tease me, but they'd
                             tease anyhow, about something. And
                        I'd hate to have papa think I was a baby."
                    "Of course you would."
                    "But I don't see how girls that have nice dolls can help
                        playing with them, whether they are grown ladies or not."
                    "Well, I have a doll," said Cousin Sarah, "the
                        first one that ever was given me. And I play with it yet! "
                    Sister uttered no shout. She thought it was charming; and the doll being
                        lifted out of the wardrobe and laid across her lap, she said it was sweet
                        enough to make Mrs. MacAllister want to play with it. Such a beautiful,
                        long-braided, well- kept doll is seldom seen. Cousin Sarah brought out its
                        afternoon dresses, its evening dresses, its bonnets, gloves, boots,
                        underwear, its dressing-case, its parasols, its chairs, tables, sofa,
                        bedroom set, and cooking furniture. They dressed it in cos- tume after
                        costume. I am ashamed to tell that Cousin Sarah flitted downstairs and came
                        up with forage from the pantry and Mrs. MacAllister's
                        spirit-furnace, and they made cracker-toast and tea  for the doll, and set forth a sumptuous table cov-
                        ered with small cakes and Scotch jam. Sister brought her inferior dears to
                        the supper, wishing they were her best waxes for appearance's sake,
                        though she loved them nearly as well. But the great doll treated them as a
                        lady should, and even lent them some of her lace capes, and allowed them to
                        try on all her hats.
                    "O," exclaimed Cousin Sarah, looking at her watch, O
                        it's ever so late! What will become of me if I don't quit
                        this! I am even teaching you to be sly, and what is more dreadful than a
                        sly, deceitful grl!"
                    Sister protested that she did not feel sly. It had been the most fun! and she
                        wished every- body played like Cousin Sarah instead of hating to be bothered
                        with dolls.
                    "What I meant to do at the start," said the the young lady,
                        " was to give her to you so I won't be tempted any
                        more."
                    Sister was speechless.
                    "I'd rather you'd have her than anybody else,
                        though I used to say that doll should never be 
                        given away. But here I am seventeen years old and getting sillier. I
                        can't help taking her out to look at, and then I can't
                        help making new clothes for her, and it is fearful to slip behind
                        papa's back and almost tell him fibs, and to be afraid of Mrs.
                        MacAllister's finding it out. So now she's yours, and all
                        her things."
                    Sister felt overwhelmed by riches. "O, Cousin Sarah! Thank you. But how can you do it!"
                    "I must do it. But don't you ever play
                        with her as long as I have, and O don't ever let
                        her get broken and shabby."
                    "I'll take the best care of her in the world. But what
                        shall I do now? Noanie might get into my things if I try
                        to put this big dolly away. And all the furniture "--
                    " We'll, you'll just have to leave her
                        here," said Sarah, with a relaxing sigh. "But
                        she's yours, and when you go home you must take her."
                    "But I can come in here to play with her?" suggested
                        Sister.
                    " Yes, indeed, and cure me of playing with her myself! We have had
                        such a glorious time."
                    
                    "O, haven't we? said Sister.
                    "And I must cut you some new patterns and teach you to sew for
                        her," said Cousin Sarah. " She's very particular
                        what she wears. I made up my mind once I would dress her in a full costume
                        of the First Empire because her name is Josephine. I'll let you do that now, and won't she be lovely! A waist
                        quite under her arm-pits and a slim skirt and puff sleeves. You've
                        seen pictures of it?"
                    " O yes," responded the other enchanted plotter.
                        "And we'll do her hair high with two curls on each side of
                        her forehead, like the portrait of Elizabeth Patterson. Then, satin slippers
                        and stockings to match, and a gauze scarf! I can see how she would
                        look!"
                    "So can I," said Sister.
                    They were both sitting on the soft carpet in a flood of moonlight, watching
                        the silent revelry of the dolls at table. No lamp was lighted, andthe pretty
                        furnishings of Cousin Sarah's room were the prettier for being
                        indistinct. Her dressing-glass was hooded with tulle, and dozens of
                        Christmas and Easter cards, cut glass bottles, and painted  glove and handkerchief cases, bedecked it. On the
                        wall hung a crayon portrait of her mother, and under it was an offering of
                        fresh heliotrope. The bed-spread and pillowcovers were of lace and lavender
                        silk, to which the scent of heliotrope unchangingly clung. Whenever Sister
                        caught Cousin Sarah around the waist and coaxed her face to a level where it
                        could be kissed, she felt as if she had been amongflowers. It seemed to
                        Sister beautiful and proper that such a young lady, in such a bower-chamber,
                        should still love and play with a doll given her by her mother; and if all
                        big women who could play on the piano and read a French Testament and a
                        Spanish prayer-book, would only do likewise, this world could not help being
                        a delightful place.
                    "And did you ever have a doll-wedding? " whis- pered Cousin
                        Sarah.
                    Sister responded that her children were too young to get married, but she
                        took them to a wed- ding at another little girl's house, and the
                        bride wore a veil and had the longest train! The back parlor was full of
                        invited dolls, and they had splen-  did
                        refreshments, peach and pistache ice-cream and lady-fingers, oranges and
                        white grapes and iced loaf cake, and the little girls sat at the same
                        table.
                    Cousin Sarah said it must have been sumptuous. "I never had such
                        fun, for there were not many playmates for me down here in the county, and
                        when I went away to school the girls all felt grown up, of course, and would
                        have despised me if they had known I kept Josephine in my
                        trunk."
                    Sister went on to say that the bride was soon a widow; for the bridegroom
                        lived next door, and as his mother was carrying him home she let him fall on
                        the stone steps and broke his head all to pieces. Then the bride went into
                        mourning for two weeks, until she got married to a doll that came visiting
                        at her house. But the second wedding happened after I came away,"
                        said Sister, "so I only saw the cards."
                    " Sarah," said Mrs. MacAllister's voice outside
                        the door, "have you got my spirit-furnace in here? I can't
                        find it at all, and nobody else knows where I keep it."
                    
                    " O," whispered the panic-stricken young lady,
                        "now what shall I do! I never thought you'd want the
                        furnace to-night, Mrs. MacAllister. Just wait till I unlock the door and
                        I'll slip it out to you."
                    " Your Aunt Jane has just got here from Greens- burg, and I want to
                        make her some tea before she goes to bed."
                    "O dear! " whispered Sarah in a greater panic, as she
                        slipped the furnace through as small a crack as possible.
                        "I'll come right down to see her. We didn't hear
                        wheels or anything."
                    "What on earth were you doing with it?" urged the
                        housekeeper, "and what have you strewed all over your
                        room?"
                    "O, please run away and don't ask me, dear! '
                    " Well, here's your Aunt Jane, coming in to see you. She
                        has her things off, and I guess she knows by the talk that you're
                        up."
                    And Sarah turned to her companion with a look of despair:
                    "O Sister!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER VIII.
                        ANOTHER DISGRACEFUL THING.
                    UNCLE ROSELADIES came down to break- fast unconscious that
                        there had been a great arrival in the night. He might have read it on the
                        disturbed face of Mrs. MacAllister, who moved between kitchen and
                        dining-room with a sort of skating-step, her dress-skirts crackling with
                        haste and precision. He might have seen it in the best china and silver
                        coffee-urn which did not come off closet shelves for common folks. But he
                        was a meditative, unobservant man, and hear it he could not. Aunt Jane lay
                        harmless in her room, and Mrs. MacAllister was not so rejoiced as to make a
                        proclamation of it.
                    But Sarah came flying downstairs, looking be- hind her once with a guilty
                        stare, and was soon holding on to her father's arm. They promenaded
                             up and down the long walk between the gate
                        and front entrance. It was a morning to make one forget his troubles, and
                        though Sarah's eyelids were of a larger size and redder color than
                        usual, she began to enjoy life once more.
                    "Do you think I'm a goose, papa? " she shouted,
                        uttering close to his ear as you have seen a hum ming-bird hanging to a
                        trumpet-flower.
                    He smiled and gave a decided nod. But at the same time he pressed her hand
                        upon his arm with warm approval of the goose. He was a tall, thin gentleman,
                        and wore shirt-collars standing up to his cheek-bones, and wound round the
                        shirt-collar was a black silk neckerchief tied with long ends upon his
                        bosom. His hair was iron-gray, carefully brushed, but standing as upright as
                        a sheaf of wheat upon his head. He wore a long-tailed coat, and his trousers
                        were stretched down by straps passing under his boots. Nowhere in the State
                        was there a quainter and older-fashioned man. His face was gentle and
                        benevolent, clean-shaven and of a waxy delicacy. He listened to Sarah with
                        his ear bent down toward her, and answered 
                        much by gestures and signs, though as often as necessary he spoke aloud. The
                        birds in the trees around him, whose fathers and grandfathers had lived in
                        those same trees, were not more innocent in their methods of living, nor
                        more attached to the spot, than this old gentleman. He never had been
                        obliged to take thought about increasing his income or bettering his estate.
                        The natural ad- vance in value of wild lands taken up by his fore- fathers,
                        had made him rich. He had only to look at his river, wander about the
                        premises, draw a check occasionally for Sarah or Mrs MacAllister, and
                        indulge himself with curious books.
                    "Did you know Aunt Jane had come?" shouted Sarah.
                    Mr. Roseladies lifted his eyebrows.
                    "She came last night, quite late, and walked into my
                        room."
                    "You dreamed it," spoke Mr. Roseladies.
                    " O no indeed! For I know she's going to tell you something
                            dreadful about me."
                    He shook his head decidedly, as if such a tell- ing would never find a
                        gateway through his ear.  And he asked at once,
                        "Did her baggage come With her?"
                    "No, and I meant you should hear that first thing. She left it at
                        the depot to be sent for, be- cause the man drove her out in a phaeton. Mr.
                        Smith can bring it, can't he?"
                    "No. He's going to Carmi. I promised him some time ago, and
                        it's business he cannot post- pone. I will take the spring-wagon
                        and Aunt Jane's check and bring her baggage myself. Directly after
                        breakfast. She will want it."
                    "Well, do, Chicky," said Sarah, petting her father without
                        a thought of detracting from his dignity. "And will you take Noanie
                        along? Don't you remember what you told her the day we drove into
                        town?"
                    Mr. Roseladies nodded, and said she should go. He would hold her beside him
                        on the seat. And Sarah promised to wake the child if she slept late, and
                        have her ready.
                    They kept on walking up and down and Sarah wondered how she could possibly go
                        in to break- fast and meet Aunt Jane. The brief and almost  silent interview she had had with Aunt Jane the night
                        before, kept rising to appal her. She felt sure she could neer outlive the
                        shame of being looked at that way, and of stammering and saying words
                        without meaning. She could not pour her heart out to anybody. Sister Bidgood
                        was too young, Mrs. MacAllister was too old, and her father might see her
                        tragedy as comedy, or he might be more cast down about it than she could
                        bear. O it was an unheard of calamity to be caught playing seriously with
                        dolls when you are seventeen years old and past, and by Aunt Jane Roseladies
                        who embodied and expected human perfection!
                    Breakfast was ready at seven o'clock, but they all knew it was Aunt
                        Jane's invariable habit never to leave her room until eight.
                        Therefore she was to breakfast on special dishes, and glad would Mrs.
                        MacAllister have been, could she have bought the lady's good graces
                        so cheaply. The family congregated, for Mr. Roseladies was in haste to start
                        upon his errand.
                    " Now you'll catch it," said Penn to Aquilla, as
                        the boys sauntered toward the river after break-  fast. You won't get off with just one isinglass chunk full of
                        quinine like you did this time. She always expects folks to do twice as much
                        as any- body else does, and folks all mind her, too."
                    " Maybe she'll read to me, now I'm sick,"
                        mused Aquilla.
                    "Maybe she'll make you read to her, you better say. I heard
                        my father tell that she brought all her boys straight up from the ground,
                        and when they got to college they didn't know how to cut up
                        enough."
                    "We can't dig the Shawnee Mound--Aunt Jane's
                        come," said Willie with a tang of satisfac- tion.
                    If we dont do it to-day, before she finds out what we're
                        about," admitted Penn, "I don't know when we
                        can."
                    That which had seemed only half desirable last night when they could do as
                        they pleased, seemed a necessity to-day when their liberty was threat-
                        ened.
                    "And you fellows can do just as you please; I'm going over
                        the river before she gets up."
                    
                    "But that won't be polite," objected Aquilla.
                    "It will be better than not going at all," hinted Penn 
                    The other two silently agreed with him.
                    "I'll take Mr. Smith's spade and pick. Mr.
                        Smith's gone off to stay all day."
                    "Then he can't come after us this time," re-
                        gretted Aquilla.
                    "If Dan intends to do anything, he can get a spade."
                    "But what'll I take?" besought Willie.
                        "Will a rake or a hoe do?"
                    "You needn't take anything, or Quill, either. Two spades
                        and a pick ought to do, and we can take it turn about, so the digging will
                        go right on."
                    The boat which Mr. Smith had borrowed lay where he left it when he lighted
                        the boys home with his lantern. It was much heavier than their
                        uncle's boat, and sat deeper in the water. Hav- ing unpleasant
                        recollections of the little boat in mid-Wabash, they took the larger one,
                        and Wil- lie and Aquilla got into it with the tools. Then Penn pushed it
                        afloat and leaped after them.
                    
                    Mr. Roseladies walked forth to his gate to mount into the spring-wagon which
                        was there waiting for him.
                    Honora through her bedroom window saw him stalking forth fastening his black
                        gloves; he wore his tall hat, and the horse was at the gate. She remembered
                        his promise to take her to town the next time he went, and the horror of
                        being left behind made her raise a cry. But what good would crying after
                        Uncle Roseladies do? He could not hear, and the only way to check him was to
                        put herself before his eyes.
                    She panted downstairs, holding to the rail and whimpering with suspense,
                        descended the front steps, and toddled after him as fast as her naked feet
                        could carr her over the gravel.
                    He was already in his wagon and in the act of turning the horse. She
                        scrambled up the fence and extended one pleading hand. "Take me
                        'long, Uncle Wosel, take me 'long. I want to go widing,
                        too! You said I could go widing, too!"
                    "Why, sure enough! " said the placid old gen tleman.
                        "I almost forgot her."
                    
                    
                        UNCLE ROSELADIES IS ABSENT-MINDED.
                    
                    
                    So, smiling, he leaned far over, lifted her off the gate and placed her by
                        his side. They drove away, Noanie laughing through tears, and drawing her
                        feet under her gown when the dewy branches overhead showered them.
                    The satisfaction of gaining her point soon gave place to anxiety. When she
                        put up her plea to Uncle Roseladies she meant that she wanted him to wait
                        for her. It was better to have sprung aboard the departing ship at the last
                        minute than to have been left behind. But he was after all treating her
                        badly to take her away before she was dressed. Noanie was little past three
                        years old, but she knew little girls ought not to go to town in their
                        night-gowns. She tried to express this idea to Uncle Roseladies:
                    "I didn't get dessed!
                    But her good uncle with his usual absent-minded and genial kindness, gazed
                        smiling ahead of him, and responded, "Yes, indeed," every
                        time he had reason to think she spoke.
                    " My foots is bare," complained Noanie.
                    "Yes, indeed," said Uncle Roseladies.
                    
                    "C'un Sa'ah didn't b'ush my
                        cuyls."
                    "Yes, indeed," chirruped Uncle Roseladies.
                    "But she's didn't!"
                        insisted Noanie, pulling the golden tangle upon her head.
                    "Yes, indeed," said Uncle Roseladies, putting his left hand
                        around her and holding the lines in his right.
                    Some of her pleasantest experiences had been rides with him. He treated her
                        grandly, like a young princess on a royal progress. In town she was sure of
                        candy or fruit or dolls. Noanie knew she was a favorite with this uncle. And
                        after her first resentment at the situation wore off, she left the whole
                        responsibility in his hands. If Uncle Roseladies wanted to take her
                        undressed he probably did so for excellent reasons. The in fallibility of
                        grown people was a comfortable part of Noanie's belief. Big men and
                        ladies might do with perfect grace and propriety what little girls might
                        not.
                    It was a warm morning and she puckered her eyelids to keep out the glare of
                        the sun. Her gown ruffles and her hair wavered in the wind.
                    
                    They passed a man driving calves, then some children swinging their dinner
                        buckets and going to district schools, then a farmer and his wife jogging in
                        his wagon, and everybody looked amazed at Noanie. The children chuckled, and
                        the farmer's wife inquired if that baby had been lost. To each one
                        Uncle Roseladies lifted his hat with his left hand and made a courtly
                        bow.
                    They drove into cool hollows where pebbly trib- utaries of the Wabash made
                        mere threads of mov- ing light across the wheel tracks. And they drove along
                        high open ridges where the road glared white. They wound among trees and
                        rubbed against grape-vine arms looped too low. And they were quite at the
                        edge of the railroad town before Uncle Roseladies turned to please himself
                        by the enjoyment of his little companion.
                    She was sitting quite still, squinting in the sun, her bare toes standing in
                        a row before her. Al- ready the heat was giving them terra-cotta tints, and
                        the bits of toes occasionally made a blinking motion.
                    " Well, I am astonished!" exclaimed Uncle  Roseladies, pulling the horse back to a sudden
                        stop.
                    Noanie smiled amiably, to win his heart.
                    "Haven't you any clothing on?"
                    "I didn't get dessed," she repeated.
                    "This is an astonishing thing!" said Uncle Rose- ladies,
                        between indignation and distress. "Why didn't you tell
                        me?"
                    "I want to go widing," responded Noanie.
                    " This is an astonishing thing! " remarked Uncle Roseladies
                        once more. " Idn't think I was ever placed in such
                        circumstances before!"
                    "You wouldn't wait till 'ey dess me,"
                        observed Honora with a wail.
                    "It is more than likely I was to blame," he admitted.
                        " Really, I don't know what to do."
                    He looked all over his wagon and could discover no place of concealment. Then
                        he turned his horse half-way towards home and Honora lifted her voice on
                        high.
                    "Don't distort your face that way," begged Uncle
                        Roseladies. "Really, I don't know what to do. I wish Sarah
                        were here."
                    
                    His duty toward Aunt Jane's baggage flashed over him. Being so near
                        the depot, how could he go back without it? The horse's head was
                        again set toward his destination.
                    "But where shall I take you?" he said to
                        Noanie, examining his own apparel helplessly to see if anything could be
                        spared for her.
                    "Take me down cheet to buy candy," and the tears still hung
                        one above another upon her cheeks as she laughed with anticipation.
                    No, no," said Mr. Roseladies. " No, indeed! I really
                        don't know what to do but I can't do that! Poor Sarah, she
                        will be mortified past en- durance! And this is a great trial to
                        you," he con- fessed sincerely to Honora. " I'm
                        sure I beg your pardon. It's all my fault, but it quite throws me
                        off my balance."
                    They stood still. Uncle Roseladies did not know in what direction to move.
                        Honora divided her attention between him and the horse. She had long curved
                        eyelashes, a short nose, full, scarlet cheeks and a pink chin. Clothed in
                        Greenaway gowns and pokes with boots and stockings to match  them, she had been the pride of her relatives, upon
                        the streets, for she made a picture no one could help turning to watch. With
                        a rolling toddle she patted on her way, giving back smile for smile freely
                        to every passer. She was a little person for whom much beautiful clothing
                        had been made-- the results paid so well for the trouble. She had at the
                        Roseladies' that very moment, piles of mull, cambric and lace
                        slips, to say nothing of seer- suckers and ginghams intended for forenoon
                        wear, and caps, pokes, capes, ribbons and slippers in abundance. Uncle
                        Roseladies thought ruefully of what her mother would say could she see the child thus abroad with him.
                    He shook the lines and even struck his horse, and they clattered ahead with a
                        dash. Thus do people when spurred behind by necessity plunge into a
                        dangerous stream. He decided to take Noanie to a friend of Sarah's,
                        and in order to deliver her by way of the back door he tangled himself in
                        alleys, drove over boxes and ancient tin vessels and lost the locality
                        himself.
                    Having found it, he knocked humbly at the side- 
                        door, and the mistress of the house being out, be- sought the servant to
                        dress Noanie in something which she might wear home.
                    "She's my niece, Honora Jones;" said Mr.Rose-
                        ladies, holding his hat in his hand and introducing the waif. And he left
                        his niece remonstrating and screaming in the hands of the stranger.
                    Composure after so much disturbance was only to be found in the cloister
                        quiet of book-stores. Mr. Roseladies remembered he had an unfilled order,
                        and drove into the busiest portion of the town, fastened his horse in a
                        convenient place, and entered the door of the principal book-seller. There
                        he met Sarah's friend, lifted his hat, bowed over her hand and
                        began to explain his perplexi- ties. While he spoke, Noanie caught him
                        around the knee and wailed with all her might:
                    "Take me, Uncle Wosel, take me! She had escaped from the house as
                        soon as he left her, and kept him in sight. The crossings and
                        horses' feet which she dared no one but her unseen angel kept
                        account of. Nor did any other individual know what she suffered when her
                        uncle  waved her off from him and said, in
                        abject em- barrassment :
                    " Run away! run away!"
                    She felt most forsaken, yet she did not want to be carried home by that lady
                        who ridiculed as much as she petted her. Neither did she want to put on
                        garments belonging to the lady's daughter, and feel lost in their
                        bigness, and patronized like a beg- gar baby by their owner. She sulked
                        behind a sofa, all the family making remarks which they sup- posed she was
                        too young to notice. She was hun- gry and ashamed to ask for food after they
                        had given her clothes, and she lay with her cheek in the carpet wondering
                        why such things happened to her since mamma went off. Thus do mere ex-
                        ternals change even little creatures from objects of admiration to objects
                        of amusement; a drop of bitter which Honora never forgot, fell into her
                        life.
                    And her Aunt Jane Roseladies, who always saw happiness in the light of common
                        sense rather than in that of sentiment, was remarking to Sarah that this was
                        another disgraceful thing.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER IX.
                        AUNT JANE.
                    O PAPA!" said Miss Roseladies at a quar- ter to
                        twelve o'clock.
                    She leaned on the fence, holding her parasol over her bare head.
                    Mr. Roseladies lifted Honora out of the spring- wagon and dejectedly tied his
                        horse. For the mo- ment he forgot Smith was not there to take it.
                    "O, you dear abused baby!" continued Sarah, lifting up the
                        child. "Have you had anything to eat? I'm sure
                        he'd never think of it."
                    " Peanuts," said Noanie, showing a bag of diver- sified
                        stuff.
                    " O, I had her little slip and sash and cap and all her things laid
                        ready," cried Sarah, attaching herself to her father's
                        ear. "And for a long time after you started I thought Mrs.
                        MacAllister had  dressed and fed her, and Mrs.
                        MacAllister thought I had done it. But Aunt Jane
                        discovered just how it was."
                    "Of course," said Mr. Roseladies, rubbing his gloves
                        helplessly. " Of course."
                    "But I couldn't believe for a long time that you'd
                        gone. For you didn't take the checks!"
                    "No," confessed Mr. Roseladies. "And they
                        wouldn't let me have the baggage. Naturally."
                    "She knows that, too. O, papa, we have com-
                        pletely spoiled our credit."
                    "I am afraid so," said Mr. Roseladies. " It was
                        the most extraordinary predicament I ever found myself in. Noanie has
                        recovered from it to some extent. She has made up with me."
                    " Poor little girl! I wish I could get her into the house and change
                        her before she is seen!"
                    "Take off twail," said Noanie. " My dess don't have twail."
                    " I must beg everybody's pardon," said Mr. Rose-
                        ladies. "I have already begged Mrs. Walker's. But I fear,
                        for the trouble I gave her, inade- quately."
                    
                    "So you took her to Mrs. Walker's? I was going to ask where
                        you got these clothes. I could laugh and cry both together until I made
                        myself perfectly ridiculous."
                    "One should always avoid being ridiculous," seriously
                        admonished her father. "I confess that I fail in my attempts to
                        avoid it but I should always like to see my daughter behave with dis-
                        cretion and good taste."
                    "You dear rose-leaf man I I wish I could go and meet Aunt Jane for
                        you."
                    " Yes, I must hurry in at once to see her. I haven't been
                        of much service to her this morning, so my absence is almost
                        inexcusable."
                    " Dear," insisted Sarah, "don't be too
                        much cast down, you know."
                    "Your Aunt Jane has a most lucid understand- ing," said Mr.
                        Roseladies as they walked up the path. " And we may always expect
                        exact justice from her. Exact justice."
                    "I know it," said Sarah; "but never any
                        mercy."
                    At first glance Aunt Jane did not look severe. She was a very tall, handsome
                        woman, dressed  in good black silk, for which
                        material she had a strong preference. The orbs of her eyes were very large;
                        not many little wrinkles lay imbedded around them. She could throw a
                        piercing blue- ness into her look. Her gray and brown hair was always done
                        in a classic knot, for Aunt Jane was spoken of as having an admirably
                        balanced head. She was making rick-rack work because it was strong, sensible
                        trimming, filled in idle minutes, and did not hurt her strong, sensible
                        eyes. All her relations knew she was a remarkable person, and submitted in
                        various degrees to her advice. she always spoke with decision because her
                        mind was made up on most subjects. If you differed from her she allowed you
                        to do so, but she had good reason to pity you. She was overwhelming rather
                        than attractive to affectionateor imaginative people. Her will was as
                        well-grown and strong as herself. Aunt Jane was indeed like a serene
                        giantess moving through the world's meadow, all the grasshoppers
                        and crickets fying before her. She did not intend them any unkindness,but
                        they naturally wished to get out of her way.
                    
                    With something of the cricket's humble cheer- fulness Mr. Roseladies
                        came in, having his black gloves in his black hat, and extended his hand to
                        Aunt Jane. As soon as she saw him her nose bent downward and the corners of
                        her mouth flat- tened. This slight change clothed her in her severe look,
                        and she said after she had taken her brother- in-law's hand she
                        hoped he was no worse than when they met last.
                    " My memory is growing a little
                        defective," ad- mitted the scholar. " I'm very
                        glad to have you here with us--very glad."
                    "I wish it had been possible for me to come before," said
                        Aunt Jane.
                    "We did drive to the station for you a couple of days ago. Of course
                        you left everybody well?"
                    "Certainly," said Aunt Jane. "But it seems you
                        have sickness in the house here."
                    "The boys stayed out in a rainstorm," confessed Uncle
                        Roseladies, "and I believe one of them did have a turn of the
                        ague."
                    There is always some one to blame when sick- 
                        ness breaks out in a family," truly observed Aunt Jane.
                    "Assuredly," admitted the old gentleman.
                    " The boys ran off across the river," put forth Sister in
                        her uncle's defence. She was hovering on the thresholdof the
                        folding doors. "And they got their boat swamped themselves, and
                        Uncle Roseladies did not know anything about it."
                    "Of course not," said Aunt Jane. It was worse for Uncle
                        Roseladies than if no plea had been uttered. "This house seems to
                        be quite a dis- tributing point. I saw you bring the baby in from her
                        remarkable journey, but I have seen nothing of the boys the whole
                        morning." She looked at her watch, the best time-piece owned by any
                        Rose. ladies.
                    "It was remarkable," confessed the old gentle- man,
                        drooping in his chair. "Upon my word, I never found myself in such
                        a position! It was, moreover, trying to the child. Yes, I felt it. I
                        can't bring myself yet, to see how I did it! "
                    "The boys'll never get done laughing about it,"
                        said Sister, "when they come home."
                    
                    "And from what point will the boys arrive," asked Aunt
                        Jane, not inclining to laugh at all, "when they do come
                        home?"
                    "Really," said Mr. Roseladies, "I am not posted as
                        to their motions this morning. Sarah and Mrs. MacAllister will
                        know."
                    Dinner was on the table at one o'clock. Noanie appeared in the glory
                        of mull and lace, kid slip pers and tinted stockings, and her curls were
                        burn- ished like a tulip's petals. Sarah overdressed her as an
                        atonement. But the boys were absent and Sarah and Mrs. MacAllister did not
                        know where they were.
                    The afternoon proved very long. Sister was lured aside a few minutes by her
                        cousin when Sarah said everything that could happen wrong
                        was happening wrong. She would perfectly fly if those boys did not come
                        soon!
                    Though this flitting cousin seemed always on the point of perfectly
                        flying--in a pleasant, aerial sense, Sister knew what she meant and
                        recognized the desperate situation.
                    Mr. Smith was not there to send after  them.
                        Nobody could go after them--unless she did.
                    Sister put on her hat and went down to the shore. She did not doubt they were
                        across the river, and it rolled so broad and threatening before her!
                
                
                
                     CHAPTER X.
                        SISTER SETS FORTH.
                    
                    VERY far from Cousin Sarah's mind was the.
                        thought of sending another dove out of the ark, and she would have flown up
                        in terror from her quiet embroidering and chat with Aunt Jane, had she seen
                        Sister tugging to get the home skiff afloat.
                    Sister had been learning to row, but was not sure of her lesson. She wavered
                        in her decision until fairly off the shore, then she was obliged to take the
                        oars and do something, and she pointed the boat courageously at
                        Dan's house. You cannot picture what this voyage was to a lit. tle
                        girl still afraid of the water. It danced around and made her dizzy. Now it
                        leaked through seams and she was in terror of swamping, and now it resisted
                        her awkward oar with a jerk which  nearly
                        upset her. The current took hold and turned her helplessly down river.
                        Dan's house was abreast of her in the distance. She passed below
                        its range, struggling with the oars until all her pulses beat like
                        trip-hammers. She could not swim, so if she meant to escape from this
                        whisper- ing, dazzling, rushing current, she must do her best without fear.
                        By degrees the management of the oars came to her like a revelation. She
                        pointed the boat across her adversary and pulled with a steady stroke. Once
                        out of the current it was easy to workup stream, easy to avoid shoals, and
                        pleasant to feel the shadow of the bluff after all her heat.
                    Sister felt ashamed because she had trembled with terror and was now
                        trembling with fatigue. She realized what a companion and beloved com-
                        petitor water could be; the Wabash had a thou- sand allurements for her
                        after she had conquered it.
                    Mrs. Marsh came to the rear door-of the barge- house and saluted Sister.
                        Rowing a boat in smooth water was nothing in Mrs. Marsh's eyes. She
                        could herself pull with a beautiful motion, and  take a boat up and down the rapids quite as a matter of course. She set
                        the trot-lines when her husband and Dan were absent; and often of a pleasant
                        evening, clothed in gear which was not made for bathing purposes, took a
                        header from her veranda and swam until she was tired.
                    Sister had seen her several times, but had only seen Mr. Marsh once when he
                        was seining with Dan near the opposite shore. She thought Mrs. Marsh was a
                        pleasant woman like the wife of the Bean-stalk Giant, but, like her,
                        unfortunate in hav- ing such a terrifying husband. The sound of his axe came
                        from the hills. It was comforting to know he surely would not step out
                        saying "Fee, fo, fum!" or something equally surly.
                    "How are they all to the house?" said Mrs. Marsh, stooping
                        down to reach the skiff-rope.
                    "O don't do that, please," said Sister.
                        "I want to run it on the bank and get out."
                    "But I'll help you on to the boat"
                    " No, thank you, Mrs. Marsh. I'm looking for our boys, and
                        I don't hear them here."
                    "No, the boys ain't here," said Mrs. Marsh.  "Them and Dan has been up in the
                        woods ever sence this mornin."
                    "I thought you'd know where they were."
                    "But I don't rightly know just where they are, only I
                        'lowed they were somewhere round his choppin'-place. He
                        hadn't seen nothin' of them, though, when he come to his
                        dinner."
                    " Who--Dan?"
                    " No; my man," replied Mrs. Marsh.
                    "Then they didn't come here and get any
                        dinner?"
                    "No. Dan, he took a chunk of cold pone and side-meat in his pocket.
                        Laws! boys will run all day and never think of a meal's vitles till
                        they're done out at night. They took some shovels, and I
                        'lowed they started out to dig for roots. I told Dan to be sure and
                        git me some jing sang."
                    " But what are they going to do with roots?" puzzled
                        Sister.
                    " Roots is very needy," said Mrs. Marsh. "And so
                        is barks. Ritter-sweet will cure the fever, and cumfrey is mighty good for
                        weak lungs. Rattle- weed root and sycamore bark will take all this  here badness out of your blood, and red
                        willow is good for achin' in your bones."
                    "Quilly had a chill. Maybe they have gone to hunt
                        something for him."
                    " Black nettle-bloom is good for the bone-hives," continued
                        Mrs. Marsh. "But dandeline made into bitters with quinine and
                        spirits is the best thing for the aigur ever I tried."
                    "Did the boys go straight up the hill, Mrs. Marsh?"
                    "No, they sidled off yon-way like, as if they meant to take a
                        southwest shoot. You come in and take a cheer and wait awhile, and
                        they'll be back. Their boat's somewhere nigh, so they
                        can't slip ye."
                    " But they ought to come right home now, Mrs. Marsh. You know our
                        Aunt Jane has come from Greensburg."
                    "Law! no, I didn't," said Mrs. Marsh.
                    "Yes, she got here last night. And the boys went off this morning
                        without waiting to say, 'how do you do!'"
                    "'Land, that's just like boys!"
                    
                    "That's why I came after them. Cousin Sarah is just as
                        uneasy!"
                    "Well, they're up yonder," said Mrs. Marsh,
                        resigning her claims on Sister.
                    "I hope you're pretty well," said Sister in de-
                        parting. " I was thinking so much about the boys at first, I
                        didn't ask you."
                    "Tol'able like," responded the river-wife.
                        "I git lonesome and run-down, like, and feel the need of a good
                        drink of buttermilk."
                    "Mrs. McAllister churned this forenoon, and I knew she expected
                        Dan."
                    " Well, now, just as soon as you ketch them boys you tell Dan to put
                        for the boat, and start the fire for his father's supper.
                        I'll take the coffee- pot and go for the buttermilk
                        myself."
                    "I will," said Sister.
                    When she had scrambled diagonally along the bluff's slope to its
                        summit, Sister paused to rest and looked back over the river. Mrs. Marsh was
                        far out on the cream-hued water, her oars rising and falling like the dip of
                        some stately bird's wines.
                    
                    " She'll tell them I'm up here," said
                        Sister aloud, with a start, for the first time feeling doubtful of her
                        undertaking.
                    The sound of an axe at intervals echoed through the woods. She tried to catch
                        sight of the wood- chopper, not because she wanted to give good evening to
                        Mr. Marsh or even let him know she was near, but because his wife had said
                        the boys were somewhere around his chopping-place. She could no more readily
                        find him, however, than if he were fitting from tree to tree. The axe-sound
                        came in disjointed notes from the north, then from re- mote western depths,
                        then from across the river. Still as Sister changed her course, other trees
                        received or multiplied the echo. She gave the chopper up and began to call
                        to the boys.
                    How one's lone voice is magnified in the deep woods 1 How audacious
                        it seemed for Sister to throw out a single word when that word instantly
                        swelled its volume and lengthened itself until the treetops were full of
                        "penn-n-n!" and "Quill-ill- lill!"
                    Her stockings and dress were studded with small  green burrs and Spanish needles, and she could hardly save pieces of her
                        curls from the brambles. She found herself pushing trough endless thlickets
                        as high as her head and with difficuly keeping the twigs out of her eyes.
                        Sister thought of snakes moreover, and squealed when some weed entangled her
                        ankle.
                    "If ever I take moonlight walks," said she, "I
                        won't come to this place, and I don't see what brings the
                        boys here. They love to run off to this side of the river where
                        it's all rocks and brush and choky weeds, when they might stay on
                        the other side and have a lots better time."
                    It finally became a mere struggle to get out of the undergrowth. Sister did
                        not know in what direction she was going. She crept under here and climbed
                        over there. The land ascended and rocks lay together in heaps. It was no use
                        to call the boys. She quite wished she was back at the river edge herself,
                        and fervently wished it when she crawled up a great gray back of limestone--
                        crouched like a petrified elephant on its knees --and saw the amber light
                        was gone.
                    
                    The woods hugged close up to her, interlacing her sight with branches. It was
                        impossible to see far in any direction, had high noon been there to help
                        her. Sister concluded to slip down the rock- side up which she had crawled
                        and follow her own path back to the river. But her little body had not made
                        such a tunnel that one bent or broken bush remained to guide her. She was
                        soon foun- dering through green as a swimmer parts his way through water,
                        excepting that her head was below the surface oftener than above it. There
                        was one thing which she could do to change her course, and that was to
                        follow the downward slope of the land. In places it became so steep that she
                        hung to bushes while groping with a foot lower in the dusk. The dusk became
                        gradually one great shade, intensely black in spots, and full of sighs and
                        short coughs, which might be twigs dropping, or squirrels in the trees, or
                        the trees themselves clearing their voices for their long night-anthem.
                    Sister knew just how an elm or walnut sways from crown to root, playing with
                        all its fingers on the instrument of the wind, and looking upward as  its voice rises through the diapason. But she
                        did not think of that. She thought only of getting out of the tangle, and
                        finding the river before the boys did, so they would row her over. The moon
                        would be up late. Tears as well as hazel leaves bothered Sister's
                        sight. Cousin Sarah and Aunt Jane would blame her so. And it was awful to be
                        lost all by yourself in the dark woods, and hear your heart beat, and be
                        unable to convince your- self that something would not catch you from be-
                        hind, or spring up at you from the ground. She was not usually a coward, but
                        her limbs wavered with exhaustion. She felt an irresistible panic rise
                        within her, and tore ahead blindly, holding both arms over her face, without
                        knowing whether she was running on level ground or hillside. The scrape of
                        her tearing garments and the crackling and resistance of brush continued but
                        a moment longer. She was free, and tumbling with a bump against a wall.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XI.
                        WHILE GRASS GROWS AND WATER RUNS.
                    DAN led his sapper andminero up the Shaw- nee Mound at
                        about ten o'clock in the forenoon.
                    Long before that hour Mr. Marsh had eaten his early breakfast and gone to
                        chop. He left many tasks for his son to do: such as mending a seine,
                        carrying wood into the barge, going to the station- store for tobacco and to
                        a neighbor's to borrow a saw. Everything was forgotten by Dan when
                        the boatload of United Diggers arrived, though he was careful to skirt
                        widely the scene of his father's labors and add a safe couple of
                        miles to the as- cent of the mound.
                    Aquilla and Penn expected to find the summit a monumental height which might
                        throw their fig- ures into gigantic relief against the sky if they  dangerously worked by daylight. But dense
                        woods, thickets and rock piles ascended with them. The mound was a mighty
                        cone ending in a blunt point.
                    "Right here," said Dan, scraping his bare foot, across the
                        turf, "my granny always said he was. There's a pin-oak,
                        and there's a pecawn-tree, and there's a pile o'
                        stone. It's between them three."
                    "That's a pretty wide place," observed Penn
                        dubiously, throwing down his load of shovels.
                    "You be keerful what noise you make," ad- monished Dan.
                        "They can hear from this top all over the country."
                    "But they can't see us," said Aquilla.
                    "I ain't so sure o' that,
                        nuther," said Dan. "We've got to keep a
                        watch-out, now I tell ye."
                    "Do you know what it was yelled at us the night we run,
                        Dan?" inquired Willie.
                    This subject had not been mentioned before, and no answer was returned for
                        several minutes. Dan ground while he marked off a space several yards square
                        with his shovel.
                    "We ain't going to dig a cellar," suggested
                        Penn.
                    
                    "I thought you said you knew just the exact spot where the young
                        chief was," hinted Aquilla. "And he wasn't as big
                        as a stack of elephants."
                    "Well, if you two is going to boss this thing," said Dan,
                        spreading one hand in eloquence and tendering the spade with the other,
                        "'and you ain't willing' to take my
                        granny's word that seen the place 'fore you's
                        born, just stake it out for your- selves and I'll go back down to
                        the boat. I got plenty to do without runnin' the resk o'
                        state's prison for the likes of you."
                    This bold and business-like speech, so lurid with a threat of impending doom,
                        killed at once all interference with Dan's surveying. Penn said,
                        "Aw-go on. Who's trying to boss?" And Aquilla
                        said if Dan gave it up the rest of them would have to give up, too.
                    "I never 'lowed to give up," grumbled Dan. But I
                        don't like to see anybody act as if they knowed it
                        all."
                    "Do you know who it was yelled at us?"
                        re- peated Willie.
                    "Yes, sir," replied Dan, pressing down with his  bare foot and throwing aside the first shovelful of
                        earth, " Ido. But that there's sumpin you don't
                        want to talk about."
                    " Why?" said Willie, feeling his scalp prickle.
                    "'Cause," returned Dan with dreadful brevity.
                        "There's nuff said."
                    Willie was now more horrified by that noise than he had been in the dark with
                        it sounding after him.
                    Penn grasped the other shovel and Aquilla took the pick, but laid it down
                        again.
                    "Now, look here," said Dan. "Two of us will have
                        to watch while two digs. One feller can slip down a piece on that side, and
                        one feller can slip down a piece on thatf side, and if they see or hear
                        anybody they can call 'Lay low!'"
                    "Well, you and Willie go first," said Penn, and let Quill
                        and me spade awhile."
                    "You dig right straight down where I begun, then," said
                        Dan, "and throw your dirt outside o' the line. And you
                        listen sharp. Don't you holler loud, Willie, if you see anything.
                        Just kind o' whisper up ' Lay low!
                        '"
                    
                    Willie accordingly descended a few yards at one side of the conical mountain,
                        and Dan, stalked bare-legged and serene, over nettles and young thistles,
                        down the other.
                    Aquilla and Penn worked with the zest of be- ginners. In ten minutes the sun
                        was very hot. In fifteen minutes they were panting bard, though each still
                        tried to throw out more shovelfuls than the other.
                    "I feel pretty weak, as though I were going to have another
                        chill," said Aquilla.
                    " You better rest yourself," observed Penn sar-
                        castically.
                    "I won't do it," responded Aquilla with resent-
                        ment. " I wish you had to take my quinine."
                    "Quinine's nothing. We'll all have to take worse
                        than quinine. But I'm bound to see it through now," said
                        Penn grimly.
                    "Aunt Jane'll think we haven't any
                        manners," regretted Aquilla.
                    "I haven't very many. But I've got lots of
                        curiosity and I want to see what's underneath here worse than I do
                        Aunt Jane."
                    
                    "Lay low!" was hissed up the hill in Dan's
                        curdling whisper.
                    The boys dropped their spades and threw them- selves fat on the ground.
                        Aquilla thought of taking to a tree, but fearing to be winged in mid-
                        climbing, imitated Penn. They held their breath and flattened themselves. A
                        shadow, tipping a little upwards from the south, but not much, for it was so
                        near noon, advanced towards them; and it was Dan's.
                    "Git up," said he.
                    "What did you do that for?" demanded Penn
                    "Who was it?" said Aquilla
                    "'Twasn't nobody. But if you fellers keep
                        a-talkin' all the time there will be somebody as
                        sure as guns. You don't want to clink your spades so,
                        nuther."
                    "S'pose you take hold and show us how," sug-
                        gested Penn with a boy's merciless sarcasm. He brushed the loam off
                        his knees.
                    "Well, I would 'a' showed you fust, if you
                        hadn't been so keen," returned Dan severely.
                        "Willie and me will take our turns and you can see
                        how."
                    
                    
                        "Lay Low!"
                    
                    
                    "Willie's too little to dig," said Penn.
                        "I'll take his place and let him watch all the
                        time."' And after some argument Dan agreed to this.
                    Aquilla descended to Dan's lookout, and sat with his back to a mossy
                        stump. He could hear the muffled tone of the spades. There was a shimmer of
                        heat over every vista toward which he turned his eye, and he was high enough
                        to see the river glinting through meshes of foliage.
                    Penn and Dan, having their jaws resolutely set and their foreheads puckered,
                        tossed out fierce shovelfuls and sunk in the hole above their knees. Penn
                        parted with his jacket, his collar and tie. Dan had no such things to
                        embarrass him. His brown toes took a sensitive grip of the damp earth,
                        enjoying their freedom; but he found it expedient to borrow Penn's
                        handkerchief to tie around his right foot, so the spade-top need not cut a
                        channel in his sole.
                    About noon they halted. Penn was drenched and exhausted with double exertion.
                        He said he would give anything for a drink of water, and Willie and Aquilla
                        were hungry. They broke off  some branches and
                        laid them carefully over hole and shovels. Then Dan led the way to a spring
                        which he said was right down yonder, but which seemed to be at the borders
                        of the next State.
                    When the spring was found, the boys lay down on their stomachs around it and
                        drank like oxen. It was between the mossy roots of a sycamore, and moss and
                        grass made a broad divan all around it. Dan took from his trousers pockets
                        the corn- pone and fried pork, and divided it. Afterwards they foraged for
                        berries and browsed on sassafras leaves. Dan knew a tree some miles further
                        on full of red thornberries if they were ripe, but the others were against
                        visiting it.
                    Three o'clock was indicated by all shadows be- fore they felt like
                        ascending the Shawnee Mound again, and Aquilla took his turn at the shovel
                        with trembling arms.
                    "I feel pretty nearly as bad as Harold did at the battle of Hastings
                        when that arrow came down in his eye," observed Aquilla.
                    "I feel just as the man in the story did when he was plowing, and
                        the pot of money came up  and hit his
                        heel," said Penn, who was sore through all his muscles, but would
                        not own it.
                    "O, Berne, Luzerne and Zurich!" groaned Aquilla."
                        Those are the three capitals of Swit- zerland, and I wish I was in one of
                        them."
                    "Dan'll run up and tell us somebody's heard us,
                        pretty soon, and then it'll be Turn, Concern and Fury till we get
                        away--Say, Quill! "
                    This exclamation was sudden and sharp. It startled Aquilla into a hysterical
                        shriek like the utterance of a nervous girl.
                    "Aw--what's the matter with you!" said Penn,
                        modifying his own excitement.
                    "What's the matter with you?"
                        demanded his cousin. "You scared me."
                    "Don't you feel it with your shovel?"
                    " No."
                    "Well, I struck something hard."
                    He sunk his spade first with one foot then with the other and pried to lift
                        its load. Aquilla came and planted his spade beside it. They leaned upon the
                        handles as levers, and the resisting ob- ject flew up at their faces.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XII.
                        A SILENT SAVAGE AND A WAR-WHOOP.
                    AQUILLA jumpd backwards and fell down.
                    " He just wants to shake hands with us," said Penn after
                        his own startled recoil.
                    Aquilla looked into the hole and shuddered. Yet there was nothing horrible in
                        the white arm-bones standing out of the earth with fingers all extended.
                        Every phalange was perfect; the whole arm looked bleached to lime-purity
                        instead of stained with damp.
                    "It's the young chief, isn't it!"
                        whispered Aquilla.
                    " It's mighty little of him then," replied
                        Penn.
                    "Some savages buried their friends sitting down," said
                        Aquilla, "so if you dug to the head, all you had to do was to keep
                        straight on and you'd get the whole figure
                        out""
                    
                    "I wish the Shawnees had buried that way," said his cousin.
                        "Le's call Dan. If we don't all work together
                        hard as we can put, we can't get through to-night.
                    Both the outposts came in, eager and excited. Dan said the best thing to be
                        done now was to "H'iste her up as quick as they
                        could." Willie might scrape dirt back from the edge of the trench
                        so the spaders need not tire themselves throwing so far. So Willie scraped
                        and the others threw up earth as furiously as moles.
                    The sun slipped low. Penn and Dan merci- fully and sincerely urged Aquilla to
                        sit down, and he did so while they uncovered the last bits of the Indian
                        skeleton. He leaned back against a tree, his face white with weariness, his
                        mouth circled by beads of dampness. Penn and Dan were up to their waists in
                        the trench, and the last sunrays glinted on their bobbing heads. Twilight
                        was threatening even the Shawnee heights.
                    "The Greeks used to burn their dead," said Aquilla, when he
                        had recovered sufficient strength of voice, "and put it out with
                        wine. And if any-  body came to the funeral
                        that the dead person hated, they made him go off. And that was a great
                        disgrace."
                    "I knowed a feller what said where he come from they put their dead
                        people in ovens," spoke Dan out of the trench, growing aggressive
                        and less cautious in voice as he labored harder to com- plete his work.
                        "He worked on a boat down by Shawneetown. He was an Irishman from
                        New Orleans."
                    "The people in New Orleans are more French than Irish,"
                        observed Aquilla.
                    "I don't care," responded Dan combatively. This
                        here feller was an Irishman. He talked
                        Irish."
                    " What did he say, Dan? " asked Willie.
                    "O, I don't mind any of it now."
                    Don't you know some Irish words?"
                    "'Well, he used to say, 'Wee, McShay,'
                        when the boss told him to do anything."
                    Aquilla heard these facts with a doubtful face. Penn paid no attention to
                        anything except the last bone he was scraping clear of dirt. His damp,  red face was smeared with marks of the soil.
                        His shirt-band clung to his neck and his hair clung to his forehead.
                    "'There you are," said Penn, throwing his spade
                        out of the trench; "and I don't see anything of the gold
                        crown."
                    "Maybe this isn't him," suggested Willie, looking
                        down with quiet terror at the white out- line.
                    "My granny wasn't sure the crown was on his head,"
                        said Dan, also throwing out his shovel. " But there was a crown. Nor she didn't know whether the kittle was
                        at his head or his feet or alongside of him. But there was
                        a little."
                    "I don't s'pose this is the young chief at
                        all," said Penn, assuming indifference. "But now
                        we've found him led's hoist him out and have a look at
                        him, any way."
                    The two younger boys stood aside while their daring elders lifted the Indian
                        skeleton to the surface. It rattled and dropped in pieces, but they set it
                        with its still articulated spine against a tree, spread the legs out in
                        front of it and placed the  skull at its top.
                        The arms hung down sprawling, the long phalange bones on the turf.
                    Aquilla and Willie retreated backward.
                    "I feel as if it would chase us," said Aquilla. And Willie
                        whimpering in his throat pleaded: "Will it?"
                    " How's it going to chase you, you baby!" said
                        Penn impatiently. "It's had the best and coolest time of
                        any of us this afternoon, so it wouldn't want to chase you if it
                        was able."
                    Dan dropped again into the trench and took the pick to sound its sides.
                    Penn, Aquilla and Willie turned their backs on the Indian chief and squatted
                        to watch this pro- cess. It was growing dusk, and they craned their necks
                        over the hole. Willie at first cast cautious looks over his shoulder to make
                        sure that the Indian was not creeping towards them. But he sat in such
                        stoical quiet and Dan's search became so absorbing that Willie
                        forgot their witness in the search.
                    "Now, you mind," said Dan, having thumped all around his
                        boundary to the right-hand side  near where
                        the head had lain, "sumpin's in here.
                    It was the more impressive because Dan whis- peered instead of sounding his
                        usual deliberate drawl aloud.
                    He stuck the point of the pick into that place.
                    "Look out!" shouted Penn, also in a whisper.
                        "You'll bang it to pieces if anything is
                        there."
                    "I know what I'm about," whispered Dan. And
                        it's just as hard as a darnick."
                    "I'll dig it out," volunteered Willie, barely
                        above his breath.
                    " No, you won't," whispered back Dan with a snuff
                        of disapproval. " They used to tell me when I'se your age
                        little fellers should be seen and not heard."
                    "That's nothing but a root you're picking
                        at," accused Penn.
                    " Root, is it?" whispered Dan. " Do you hear that
                        click?"
                     He struck a hard blow.
                    " No, I don't. Do you, Quill?"
                    
                    " No," whispered Aquilla. " It sounded more like a
                        rattle."
                    "Well, that's it," said Dan. "
                        It's the pieces rattlin' against the sides."
                    The three slipped down upon their stomachs and stared closer into the trench,
                        under Dan's arm, between his legs or around his side. Willie felt
                        certain of the precious kettle, and wished Sister could see it. Aquilla knew
                        some noise had answered the strokes, and Penn wanted to get hold of the pick
                        himself, he was so impatient of long-armed, deliberate river-boys.
                    Yet a hole was growing in the side of the trench somewhat like a branch
                        chamber off the main shaft of a mine. If Dan had made quicker strokes, if
                        the ground had been softer, if dusk had not gathered so fast between their
                        eyes and their object, and if they had not been interrupted at the intensest
                        moment, the Indian prince's crown and treasure must have fallen
                        into their hands.
                    "There she is!" hissed Dan, as his blow was answered by a
                        clattering sound like the breaking of a dry gourd.
                    
                    "O--o!" yelled Willie. "Hoo--o! Look
                        --he's throwing his head at us!"
                    The head of the Indian chief actually flew between Willie and Aquilla, and
                        fell upon Dan in the trench.
                    Dan crouched backwards and menaced the other boys. "Stop that,
                        now!"
                    Willie was sure his eyes deceived him when he stared back at the tree against
                        which their Indian had been propped. A large figure stood in its place,
                        clothed in trousers, boots and hickory shirt, and holding a club in his
                        hand.
                    The United Diggers after their first terror, might have scattered down all
                        sides of the mound. But each one felt instantly the merciless power of that
                        club. It looked capable of tripping their legs and stretching indefinite
                        reaches after them.
                    Aquilla took courage to notice that the skeleton lay in fragments at the
                        roots of the tree, and this hairy being expanded and contracted with mortal
                        breath.
                    "Come out o' that!" said the hairy being with  a force and anger calculated to make larger
                        boys tremble.
                    "We air comin' out," responded Dan sulkily,
                        climbing to the surface.
                    "What you doin' here?" continued
                        the club- bearer.
                    "Diggin'," replied Dan.
                    "'Diggin' what fer? Fish-wums?"
                    "No"
                    "Injuns?"
                    " Digging for money," said Penn, boldly. "
                        It's my uncle's mound."
                    At this the hairy man opened his mouth hugely and uttered "a roaring
                        laugh which filled many cubic yards of air. It was intimidating, and made
                        him terrible. He seemed to know he had a talent for this kind of yelling,
                        and added another shiriek by way of emphasizing the first and expres- sing
                        his power over mound-diggers of every degree.
                    Even Willie knew this was Dan's father. And he began to suspect it
                        was Dan's father who cre- ated such a panic on the occasion of the
                        cat- nip-pipe. He was a dreadful man, probably the  hairiest one that ever escaped being downright wild.
                        He could bury them in the hole, and mind it no more than if he were chopping
                        up a log. Penn was in his power; Aquilla looked as pale as sycamore bark;
                        even Dan shrunk up and looked years younger, years weaker.
                    Their captor with motions of his club ranged them in line. Their trophy
                        remained under the tree. Their tools lay scattered, the pick in the bottom
                        of the trench.
                    "We want to go home," said Penn, with a dar- ing shake of
                        the head, and the club threatened him so close that he dodged, though he was
                        ashamed of it. He felt it due to himself to add in a mutter, "You
                        don't dare to hurt us, anyhow," when he was tripped by
                        some means and fell on his face, mak- ing a bruise all along one cheek; and
                        it did hurt.
                    "What you goin' to do with us, pap?" inquired Dan
                        in a tone of supplication. The bold, delib- erate Dan, who could plan and do
                        dangerous things, now cowered in his jeans trousers as if he were shrivelled
                        by recollections which these other boys could not even imagine.
                    
                    No reply was granted him except the reply of the club. It grazed his ear
                        indicating the direc- tion in which Dan was to head the procession, and he
                        dodged with a cringe and marched off. Penn, Alquilla and Willie trod on each
                        other's heels in a line behind him, for their captor marched last,
                        crowding them forward.
                    Down the Shawnee mound and into the heart of those tangled woods, out of the
                        afterglow into dusk, burs, rotten log-dust, scratching foliage, they
                        stumbled and pushed.
                    Aquilla held to Penn's trouser-band, and Penn growled rebelliously
                        when he heard Willie whim- per so near the club.
                    "Don't say nothin' at all," breathed Dan,
                        when the undergrowth gave him a chance to whisper.
                        "There's sumpin' the matter with his head, and
                        mother and me never know what he'll do if he ain't
                        humored!"
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIII.
                        EIGHT BOYLESS LEGS.
                    WHEN Sister bumped against the wall and found it was a
                        substance through which she could not force herself, she was obliged to
                        check her panic and feel along the surface. It was ridgy, part clay and part
                        hewn wood, and old axe-wounds could be detected in the wood.
                        Sister's eyes helped her to the certainty that she had run against
                        a cabin in the woods. She could see the outline of shingled eaves jutting
                        not very far above her head; and though no noise could be heard within,
                        somebody lived here. Barn-odors came to her nose, and chickens stirred with
                        a sleepy "qua-qua?" in trees near her.
                    Little girls who feel a great deal of distance between their natural
                        guardians and themselves, always hope to fall into the hands of some nice
                             good person who will take them home.
                        Sister's mind swiftly sketched the people in this house. She knew
                        there must be a lovely old man and woman who would exclaim" aw,
                        chid!" So many Wabash folks invoked the law when they made a
                        general exclamation. "Are you the little girl from Mr.
                        Roseladies'? Well, you must be taken straight back, for they will
                        be so uneasy about you." The old man would carry that kind of a
                        lantern that sheds light through tin .holes, and give Sister his big
                        forefinger to hold by while he guided her through the woods.
                    While this half-acknowledged etching of the brain was going on, she kept
                        feeling along the wall to find corner or door. There was no window on that
                        side. She ran against a thicket of bushes growing close against the logs,
                        and retreated from them in the opposite direction. This brought her to a
                        corner where the log-ends interlaced like huge fingers locked, and she could
                        now see the door- step and front of the house. Through small deep windows on
                        each side of the door a little light was strained.
                    
                    Sister tried to penetrate the single dim distorted pane of the window she
                        passed. The sash was made for four panes of glass, but rags or old cloth-
                        ing bulged through three places, and the glass looked cobwebbed or smoked or
                        mud-soaked until its original uses were suspended.
                    Sister stepped upon the door-log and rapped with her fngers. The dropping of
                        beechnuts could be no lighter than her rap. She did not want to make the old
                        couple jump. The outline of a string hanging through a latch-hole, could be
                        discerned on the door. And Sister believed if she pulled that string it
                        might in some mysterious way open the door. Still, she hesitated to do so,
                        dark as were the woods and pressing as was her wish to get inside.
                    It seemed long to wait. She rapped again, this time with somewhat of the
                        woodpecker's aggres- sive rattle, and the door pounced open, a
                        flaring tin lamp pounced at her, and was the only object between her face
                        and the face of a strange old woman.
                    The old woman's reddishness and wrinkles, and  wisp of gray hair escaping like a scant horse-tail
                        down her back, were not what frightened Sister. Her fierce eyes, her opening
                        and shutting her mouth with a gnash of two lone teeth, like an angry owl,
                        each time before she spoke, her red flannel petticoat and butternut-colored
                        short sack, were what Sister objected to. Moreover she had a broomstick
                        under one arm.
                    Sister wished she had not knocked at the door and wondered how far it was to
                        a neighbor's. She pushed the fleece of curls well out of her eyes,
                        and experimentally smiled at the old woman.
                    "I just stopped to ask the way to the river," gasped
                        Sister.
                    The old woman snapped with her mouth as if trying to catch words which
                        escaped.
                    "The river!" she shouted so loud it struck your ears like a
                        shot. " What do you want of the river?"
                    "O, I want to go home pleaded Sister. "I live on the other
                        side. I'm the little girl at Mr. Roseladies'. I came after
                        the boys and got lost. Have you seen anything of our boys?"
                    
                    The click came before the shout: " What boys? "
                    "The boys from Mr. Roseladies',
                        ma'am."
                    "The boys that was down among the Injuns?"
                    " No, ma'am," replied Sister, with bulging eyes.
                        "Thre isn't any Indians."
                    "The woods is full of 'em," shouted this fortress
                        holder from the security of her dwelling. "You've been
                        among 'em, too," she added, shaking her head at
                        Sister's clothes.
                    "Please don't scare me!" besought Sister.
                    " Come into the house then, will ye!"exclaimed the old
                        woman, after several ineffectual clicks. "Come in if you
                        don't want to be ketched, for the Injuns has been disturbed, and
                        the woods is full of Shawnees to-night, I tell ye!"
                    Sister made up a lip to cry, being at once fright- ened over the doorstep
                        into the house and repelled by its inmate. 
                    The grandmother set her tin lamp on the man- tel where it made a yellow
                        circle of flickering light around itself, leaving the rest of the one-roomed
                        cabin in uncertainty.
                    Finding no instant damage was to be done to 
                        her the little girl sat in a splint-bottomed chair, holding her hat, and
                        eying her surroundings to- gether with that one figure which animated
                        them.
                    Ashes were swept up into the fireplace, and two fire-dogs holding a lately
                        blackened ember, seemed to stretch up or squat according to the changes in
                        the light. A chain hung down the chimney and upon its hook was a tea-kettle.
                        A weazened clock was fastened high up on the wall, and out of it dangled
                        weights and brass chains enough to tear the very wheels from its bosom.
                        Wedged close in one corner was a bed, and over it ranged a row of flannel
                        and cotton garments, while along the logs between its head and the fireplace
                        hung pots, skillets and iron pans. There was a cupboard on the other side of
                        the fireplace and a small table under one window.
                    But the queerest, the hugest object in the house was a great framework
                        opposite the bed. It was made of heavy dark timbers and extended quite to
                        the rafters, and while its beams were not cov- ered into a small house by
                        themselves, like a pipe organ, it filled a quarter of the cabin, and there
                        was  mystery in its shadows. At the front of
                        it a great many threads crossed each other, coming from a roll of web on a
                        horizontal post.
                    The old woman sat down on a bench in front of this machine as if she were
                        going to play on it. Sister wondered if she had been playing on it when she
                        knocked at the door, and why she did it, and what sort of sound the thing
                        would make.
                    The old woman shot some object across between the threads; and then pulled a
                        sort of gate hang- ing from the top : Ke-bang, ke-bang!
                    Sister was certain there was no such noise as that in the house when she went
                        groping along the outside. And why the old woman took to work- ing the
                        machine without saying another word to her captive, was mysterious indeed.
                        She may have been washing her plates when Sister rapped: they stood in
                        polished rows upon the cupboard shelves. Or she may have been sweeping her
                        hearth. She certainly was not making this thing boom as she now kept doing
                        with a regular mo- tion.
                    Very little light seemed necessary to her occu-  pation. She sat in the twilight far from her lamp, shot the shuttle
                        between her threads, and pulled the hanging gate, without turning her head
                        from the work, indeed, but also without straining her eyes upon it.
                    Sister now felt less afraid of her. Still, she would not have kissed this
                        dreadful grandmother for anything in the world. She must be some-
                        body's grandmother. Where were her grandchil- dren, and all the
                        folks who ought to make the cabin lively of an evening?
                    Ke-bang, ke-bang! worked the loom.
                    And how bad it was in her to tell a little girl the woods were full of
                        Indians. How was Sister to reach home if the old woman would not offer even
                        to tell her the way?
                    Ke-bang, ke-bang! taunted the loom.
                    Sister rose from her chair and concluded she would go up to the old woman and
                        beg again to be told the way to the river. It was past nine by the weazened
                        clock. If Uncle Roseladies and Mr. Smith came over to search for her, how
                        were they to find her, shut in this cabin?
                    
                    Now Sister's eyes by constant gazing at the loom corner had grown
                        used to its glooms, and as she changed her place, new features of the frame-
                        work stared at her. She saw legs. Boys' legs.
                    The huge machine was draped at the back to within half a yard of the foor,
                        with long threads hanging motionless. They were of some dull color and did
                        not catch the eye. But between the threads and the foor were eight
                        boys' legs. Sis- ter tiptoed forward stretching her fearful neck,
                        and counted them. She could not see the feet. A foundation cross-piece hid
                        them, although Sister stooped and peeped between timbers. She felt
                        speechless fright, as if she were dreaming a bad dream.
                    There were Willie's long stockings meeting his knickerbockers. There
                        were Penn's legs; Aquilla's slim stems; and Dan's
                        lean dark calves. All in a stiff row which neither wavered with long
                        standing nor twitched with the workings of boys' uneasy
                        muscles.
                    And regularly the great machine, as if it were absorbing them piecemeal, went
                        Ke-bang, ke-bang!
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XIV.
                        MORE DISGRACEFUL THINGS.
                    ON the evening of that day Honora was the only child who
                        appeared at the Rosela- dies' tea-table. She had been playing by
                        herself all the afternoon with dolls in various stages of ruin, and fell
                        into a cherubic sleep with her cup of milk between her dimpled fists. Mrs.
                        MacAllis- ter was obliged to take her up to bed before the rest of the
                        family rose from the table.
                    "There goes the last of the flock," remarked Aunt Jane.
                        "The children certainly keep them- selves out of the way
                        here."
                    " I don't see where they can be staying so long,"
                        said Sarah uneasily.
                    "Mariana must be about the premises. She was with us the greater
                        part of the afternoon. Do they come to meals whenever it suits
                        them?"  Aunt Jane had not yet taken
                        the reins of author- ity. She was observing the family methods.
                    "O no, indeed," said Sarah. " They have been in
                        their places promptly. And I know Sister wouldn't be away now if I
                        hadn't told her I was worried about the boys. I blame myself for
                        it."
                    "You know where she is, then? "
                    "She has gone across the river," replied Sarah,
                        blushing.
                    "Across the river! By herself!" exclaimed Aunt Jane so
                        distinctly that Mr. Roseladies heard it.
                    " Boys will take to water just like ducks," he explained,
                        smiling. His hair stood quite upright and his face was vey placid and
                        innocent. "Many a time have I swam across the Wabash, and my memory
                        doesn't go back to the time when I didn't own and row a
                        boat. There can be no more wholesome amusement for boys or girls either.
                        Sarah has fine muscles. They come of handling oars. And I need never feel
                        any uneasiness about her going down in a shipwreck. One of her first
                        important lessons was learning to swim."
                    
                    " But I suppose you didn't encourage her to go soaking
                        herself all day," remarked Aunt Jane, keeping her eye upon the case
                        in hand.
                    " Certainly not," said Mr. Roseladies. "There is,
                        of course, a limit."
                    "Those three boys have not found the limit, then. Are they in the
                        habit of voyaging across and up and down the river whenever they please,
                        without asking permission?"
                    "O, no," said Sarah. "I think they ask papa.
                        I'm sure they have asked him for the boat. Papa, don't the
                        boys ask leave of you when they want to run about?"
                    Mr. Roseladies inclined his ear to gather these words.
                    "No,"he replied, smiling kindly. "They enjoy the
                        privileges of the country. There is no danger they can fall into in this
                        neighborhood."
                    "And no mischief " put Aunt Jane.
                    "I only require that they tell Sarah where they are going,"
                        he continued, not having heard her. Aunt Jane smiled, flattening the corners
                        of her mouth.
                    
                    "They are over in the Illinois woods digging roots,"
                        proclaimed Sarah. "And Sister took the other boat and went to call
                        them home. Mrs. Marsh was here for buttermilk awhile ago. She's a
                        woman that lives in a boat, Aunt."
                    "Much as the boys are doing."
                    "I mean it's an old barge tied to the shore. And Sister had
                        just been there inquiring for the boys. And she had gone up into the woods
                        to find them. I do wish the child hadn't done it. We have no boat
                        to send across now."
                    "Or the baby might man it and set forth after Mariana,"
                        suggested Aunt Jane.
                    "We haven't had such a day since they came,"
                        pleaded Sarah somewhat piteously.
                    She felt humbled and ashamed, having always desired the good will and
                        approval of Aunt Jane and conscious of the level to which she had sunk.
                    "I do suppose Aunt Jane believes," talked Sarah, walking
                        restlessly down to the river, as the sun set, "that I spend all my
                        time playing with dolls, and am the real baby of the lot. Oh, how naughty
                        those boys are to stay so long They will  be
                        sure to come home maimed or with some eyes out. They can't get drowned when the water is so still, unless they
                        jump in for pure malice. And if Sister were not quite such a loving little
                        thing she would aggravate my lot less. There's no sign of them on
                        the other side. If she had but let the boat be I could pull over myself
                        while Aunt Jane shouts to papa, and make Mrs. Marsh or her husband rake the
                        woods for the runaways much more effectively than she can, poor little soul!
                        Mr. Smith isn't here. Besides, we have positively no way of getting
                        over the river. I do wish I had gone over in that Marsh woman's
                        boat, whatever Aunt Jane might have thought."
                    The evening light faded.
                    Sarah walked up and down the river edge feel- ing desperate with
                        responsibility. She waved her handkerchief to attract her neighbors from the
                        barge, but the signal was never seen. She thought of her bathing-suit and of
                        swimming across, but the river was so wide, and that was an undertak- ing
                        she had not yet accomplished.
                    She sat down on a stone and waited for a boat 
                        
                            ECHOES ANSWERED HER.
                        
                         to put out from the opposite side. The
                        evening was still, and the water looked like glass, rippling only in the
                        current. The western bluffs lived again on its surface. She dreaded going
                        back to the house without having collected her sheep in a flock behind her.
                        There was no use in slipping about to confer and condole with Mrs.
                        MacAllister. Mrs. MacAllister had two quinine pellets laid up against
                        Aquilla, and was in a very low state of mind regarding all the children and
                        the family standing.
                    The echo of a great cry made Sarah spring to her feet. Then another cry
                        followed, multiplying itself between the banks and bounding from wooded
                        height to bluff. Sarah stood on the rock, and shouted between her hands the
                        names of the missing children. Echoes answered her, until having exhausted
                        the sound they dropped to silence. And it was nearly dusk and she did not
                        know what to do.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XV.
                        CAPTIVES.
                    WHAT you doin' down on the
                        flo'?" sud- denly asked the old woman, catching Sister by
                        the arm.
                    "I wanted to see," replied Sister, pierced by the shrill
                        voice and trembling in every part.
                    "Stand up and see, then," said she, placing her prisoner at
                        her left hand where the performance on the loom could be witnessed to very
                        good advantage.
                    So Sister was obliged to stand and watch the shooting of the shuttle, the
                        banging of the gate, and the changes of the crossed threads. She dared not
                        move a step away, and grew tired on her feet and shifted her weight,
                        thinking of those boys' legs behind the loom. If those legs were
                        still fast to their bodies, why did they not shift about or  kick the floor? Tears started from her eyes and ran
                        with a constant drip upon the breast of her dress.
                    Perhaps, after all, the woman did not know those boys were there; perhaps
                        they had slipped in and hid themselves, and stood perfectly quiet for the
                        sake of scaring that poor old woman. Oh, how mean boys could be when they
                        wanted to! So Sister stood divided in her mind and suffer- ing, now
                        furtively stanching her tears and now stretching her neck sidewise to see
                        the back of the loom.
                    It was odd to think of her uncle's pleasant homestead only two or
                        three miles away; the lighted parlors, the dainty supper-table, and the
                        people so different from this old woman.
                    The clock struck ten, which was evidently far beyond usual bedtime in the
                        cabin. Listening on her loom bench, the grandmother gazed at
                        Sister's "face and saw, thrown up by the lamp yellowness,
                        the track of tears. "L Are you hongry? " she asked.
                    Sister felt a general depression and despair which might be hunger, so
                        responded "Yes, ma'am, I 
                        guess so," upon which the grandmother pushed her to the cupboard
                        beside the fireplace. Both doors gaped wide and an indescribable stale smell
                        came out of the enclosure. There were a dish of greens, some corn bread, a
                        glass of black molasses, and a bit of butter reduced to oil by the heat of
                        the day and cooled once more to an irregular solid by the presence of night.
                        This cupboard convinced Sister that her symptoms did not mean hunger, after
                        all; yet she dared not refuse to eat and nibbled at the corn bread, feeling
                        quite miserable. The strange hostess stepped cau- tiously out upon the log
                        step. The shrill voice quavered away among the tree-tops : " Ho-oo,
                        Wash'n'ton!"
                    Sister did not pause to consider whether this might be a call to the father
                        of his country, or whether some wild son, dwelling in the woods but
                        distinguished by an illustrious name, was being summoned by his mother. She
                        sprang up and ran across the uneven squeaking floor to look behind the loom.
                        The great loom-frame responded to the light jar of her feet.
                    
                    Four figures were roped securely to the cross- beam at the loom back. She
                        trod on the lavish end of a new rope which tied them: Willie, Penn, Aquilla
                        and Dan. As Sister's sight adjusted itself to the dusk she saw
                        their mouths were swathed tight shut as if from cold, their hands fastened
                        down to their sides and their feet secured in a steady row by loops of
                        woollen chain such as sup- plied the loom. Although reduced to breathing
                        mummies the boys could use their eyes, and Sister saw that Willie's
                        were shining with an overfow of tears.
                    Each one struggled more or less with his mouth-covering. Penn wagged his head
                        as if he would bid her notice how he meant to pay all this back sometime
                        with interest; but Aquilla looked heavy-eyed and physically faint. Dan she
                        could barely distinguish. He seemed abjectly sheepish.
                    "O Penn! O Willie!" she gasped. "O Cousin
                        Quilly!"
                    Sister did not notice that she left Dan out of the invocation.
                    
                    " Did she tie you up here? " whispered
                        Sister, indicating the closed cabin door.
                    All four heads heard her, and all four heads shook in negation
                    " Don't cry, darling," said the comforter to her
                        younger brother whom she could reach with a kiss; and kissing his cheek, she
                        took up some falling tears.
                    " Ho-oo, Wash'n'ton!" soared up the
                        grand- mother's voice again.
                    "Was it a person named Washington that did it?" whispered
                        Sister.
                    While the others paused, Dan bobbed his head in his dusky corner.
                    She had already begun to untie Willie's hands with as great speed as
                        possible, the boys readily understanding that. Willie could then untie Penn,
                        Penn could untie Aquilla, and Aquilla untie Dan. Each might afterwards
                        struggle with his own gag and foot-shackles, and thus in the course of time
                        get free to retreat, if Sister could but succeed in unroping Willie before
                        the grandmother came back.
                    
                    The wooden door hinges creaked, while Sister tugged, and tried her teeth and
                        her nails. But the grandmother lifted up her voice once more before stepping
                        over her threshold, and this time the cabin and surrounding woods were
                        filled by Mr. Marsh's answering call.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVI.
                        TRIAL OF THE MOUN-DIGGERS.
                    DAN'S grandmother--for it was Dana's
                        grand- mother--remained upon the step until Mr. Marsh reached it, and this
                        gave Sister time to loosen Willie's hands, but she saw in the
                        boys' faces that her labor came too late. Their bonds would now be
                        inspected, and no chance offer of breaking out of the cabin. She kept her
                        place, however, determined to stand by them.
                    What Mr. Marsh meant to do with them, or whom he was bringing to assist him,
                        they could not conjecture. It was therefore a wonderful relief, after the
                        multiplied footsteps at the door, to see Sister dart across the floor while
                        she cried out, "O, Uncle Roseladies O, you've come after
                        us!"
                    Here came home and deliverance, and very little 
                        
                            "O, UNCLE ROSELADIES! O, YOU'VE COME AFTER
                                US!"
                        
                         did it matter that Uncle Roseladies looked
                        sterner and more disturbed than she had ever before seen him. He had his
                        short cloak across his shoulders to protect his throat from night damp, and
                        as he took his hat off which Uncle Roseladies never failed to do beneath any
                        roof, his hair stood up with military erectness.
                    " Mariana here, too," he said, taking Sister by the wrist.
                        "That is, at any rate, relief. Where are the boys,
                        Marsh?"
                    Mr. Marsh, having secured the door by a button and laid a hatchet on the loom
                        bench, took the lamp off the mantel and beckoned with his big fore-
                        finger.
                    " Why, I trust, Marsh," said Mr. Roseladies, "that
                        you have not put the boys in any unwhole- some receptacle." And
                        pressing his palms to- gether, he tiptoed after the giant boatman to look
                        behind the loom.
                    " This is too much, Marsh," spoke out Mr. Rose- ladies,
                        sharply. " I am angry and distressed at what the children have
                        done, but cruelty did not enter into my intention of punishment. Never for
                             an instant. They look veryuncomfortable.
                        Give me the light while you untie them. The whole business is distressing. I
                        should have thought, Mrs. Marsh," said the gentle scholar, turning
                        to Dan's grandmother while the lamp threw out his features in
                        exaggerated profile, "that you could detain these culprits without
                        allowing any such rigor as this."
                    " I don't 'low as it's my
                        business," shouted back the grandmother in a pitch that never
                        failed to penetrate Mr. Roseladies. "They done 'sturbed
                        the Shawnees, and it's the Shawnees' business. Them and
                        the Shawnees fur it." She withdrew to her fireplace, sat down on
                        the splint chair that Sister had occupied, and watched further pro- ceedings
                        with her elbows resting on her knees.
                    When Mr. Marsh's skilled hands had delivered the boys one by one,
                        they were mounted upon the high loom bench, a drooping disconsolate row, to
                        be arraigned. Mr. Marsh took the hatchet out of their way and spread his
                        great back against the door.
                    "You have done, boys," said Uncle Roseladies,  approaching, and lifting a finger, "an act
                        for which there is scarcely any atonement. You have made me break the faith
                        my grandfather pledged to the Shawnee tribe. In my turn I promised that
                        burial mound should be inviolate, and now children of my own household, a
                        son of my own neighbor, sally forth and turn my pledge into an untruth. It
                        harrows me. I am angry. I have not been so aroused in all my recollection.
                        Penn, what in- duced you to put me in this position? "
                    Penn mumbled that he did not think it would make any difference.
                    "I thought you valued honor and fair dealing more. And Aquilla whose
                        mind inquires after knowledge--even he could not forbear, it
                        seems."
                    Aquilla lifted his heavy eyes, and said his mind kept inquiring what was in
                        that mound, and he did not like to back out when a little fellow like Willie
                        stuck to it.
                    Willie spoke through the drip of tears which un- ceasingly washed his
                        mouth-corners, and pleaded that he thought the money and the
                        chief's crown would be so nice, and he meant to give the most  of his to Sister and Cousin Sarah and you.
                        But as Uncle Roseladies could not distinguish a word any of them spoke, this
                        magnanimity was lost upon him. Sister, however, who was standing at the end
                        of the loom bench with her arm around Willie, appreciated it, and gave him a
                        kiss which he en- dured in tearful patience.
                    Dan sat silent as an Indian, although he kept a furtive eye upon his father
                        and the hatchet.
                    "You have hurt me," concluded Uncle Rose- ladies, and this
                        simple fact touched them more sharply than his harangue. "Now what
                        punish- ment do you think right to be dealt out to you? "
                    "Thumbs of every feller ort to come off," pro- nounced Mr.
                        Marsh in the character of jury and judge. Dan reached around Aquilla and
                        pinched Penn, who started, and gazed into Dan's deep foreboding
                        eyes.
                    "You are doubtless hungry and exhausted," added the gentle
                        uncle who did not know sen- tence had been pronounced. "I see that
                        your clothes are torn, and, I will not forbear hoping there are stone
                        bruises and scratches upon your  persons. This
                        is the reward of ill-doing. But worse punishments usually follow, and now
                        what do you honestly think ought to be indicted on you?"
                    "Thumbs," insisted Mr. Marsh, raising his voice to a roar,
                        and approaching with his own huge pos- session in that line lifted so that
                        its cracked nail, spreading ball and distorted joint might be ably seen even
                        by the faint illumination. " Chop the'r thumbs off and put
                        'em into that mound when it's covered up
                        ag'in."
                    The gentlemanly scholar arched a hand behind his right ear, and made a slight
                        bow in response.
                    "Yes. I want the mound covered again at once. The sooner it is done
                        the better I shall be pleased. Do it to-morrow morning early, as I said
                        while we were coming along, and tell me noth- ing more about it except that
                        the mischief is repaired as much as it possibly can be."
                    "He says," shouted the grandmother, "that
                        the'r thumbs ort to be struck off according' to the
                        promise made the Shawnees, if ever them Shawnees was 'sturbed while
                        grass growed and water run."
                    A slow smile grew upon Uncle Roseladies' face.  He carried his eyes along the bench of disconsolate
                        boys, and inquired: "Are you ready to yield up your
                        thumbs?"
                    Willie broke into a sobbing cry, having Sister as his subdued chorus, and
                        Uncle Roseladies could carry his joke no farther.
                    "There, there. Now, now. Hush, hush, Willie. I could not bear to
                        give any of you even a whip- ping which you richly deserve, much less to
                        work any harm to your persons."
                    Mr. Marsh's mouth showed like a cavity in his whiskers while such
                        weak mercy was being dealt to the prisoners. "Shawnees have got to
                        be satisfied," he thundered, which, in spite of his strength of
                        lung Mr. Roseladies appeared not to understand, turning a puzzled gaze upon
                        him.
                    "He says," the grandmother repeated in her piercing shout,
                        "the Shawnees got to be sattyfied. No use to shet that mound
                        'less you shet inside them thumbs that done it. IseenthemShawnees
                        in the'r council rings," she mused, if one can muse in a
                        shriek; "and I seen'em on the war-path. I been well
                        beknown to 'm, and they won't never  lay still no mo' while grass grows and water
                        runs if pale-faces' oaths isn't kep'. Them
                        Shawnees'll fill the woods. They'll mur'n the
                        cattle. They'll raise p'ison fogs on the river, and
                        they'll kill the fish."
                    "My dear Mrs. Marsh, you don't believe any of that
                        nonsense," persuaded Mr. Roseladies gently.
                    The grandmother's eyes burned with excitement as she cried:
                        "Did you know 'em? Did you marry amongst 'em, and is you half
                        or quarter Shawnee?"
                    "I had no idea you and your son were related to the tribe,"
                        said Mr. Roseladies, fumbling with his hands. "You surprise
                        me."
                    "If any Shawnee had made oath to cut off his child's
                        thumbs," continued the grandmother, point- ing toward Mr. Marsh,
                            her child, "'off they would come.
                        Wouldn't they, Wash'n'ton?"
                    Mr. Marsh jerked his head in ratification and immediately beckoned to Dan.
                        The lank lad rose up, his face shining a waxen yellow, disdaining to cry,
                        but quite reduced to pleading.
                    
                    " Pap, if you won't do it I'll never shirk another
                        chore."
                    "Lay that right thumb of your'n right down there,"
                        commanded Mr. Marsh, indicating place and position at his own feet on the
                        puncheon floor. He sunk to one knee and held the hatchet in rest.
                    "Pap, you'll feel put out when I can't take a fish
                        off'n the hook no more, nor handle an axe nor turn the
                        grindstone."
                    "Dannel," cried his grandmother, "you ort to thort
                        of that befo' you done done it."
                    " Purty please, pap," pleaded Dan, most tremu- lously;
                        "purty please don't you go for to whack 'em off.
                        I didn't 'low it would put you out so, and Granny she was
                        al'ays talkin' about that gold crown and pot of money
                        herself."
                    "Are you going to take our thumbs off, too?" spoke out Penn
                        Bidgood.
                    Mr. Marsh jerked him a nod while pecking softly with his hatchet corner on
                        that spot he expected Dan's hand to occupy.
                    "Nary thumb goes out of this house to-night," shouted
                        Grandmother Marsh.
                    
                    Dan cast a piercing look of helplessness at Mr. Roseladies as he passed him
                        on light bare feet; and he was coming slowly to his knees before his
                        powerful father, when the gentleman suddenly un- derstood and caught holdof
                        the boy.
                    "Marsh, what are you going to do? This is brutal, sir. This is going
                        too far again,permit me to say, even if I interfere between you and your
                        son."
                    " I begin with my own boy's thumbs," roared Mr.
                        Marsh.
                    "And do you mean to tell me that you actually propose to carry out
                        your threat against all these children? You are out of your mind, man. The
                        country would mob you. I will not allow it, sir."
                    "Will you come betwixt?" Mr. Marsh struck the hatchet into
                        the floor where it stood fixed and glittering, the blow making Dan jump in
                        rebound and the boys on the bench grab each other for mutual defence.
                    "Then we'll fight and settle it, Mister!" Saying
                        which the half-Shawnee towered up in his shaggi- ness and advanced upon the
                        older man.
                    
                    Penn stood erect and Aquilla rose with him, but Willie allowed Sister to
                        choke him with both arms. They all knew that their entire strength added to
                        that of Uncle Roseladies would not be sufficient to defend them from one of
                        the river- man's arms. He was now enraged, moreover, and if his
                        head was queer on ordinary occasions, what must be its state at this
                        moment!
                    Uncle Roseladies looked beautiful and white. His eyes were stern, his jaws
                        set, and his lips drawn out in two determined lines. He unclasped and flung
                        away his cloak as Mr. Marsh came toward him, and squared his left arm in
                        front of his breast.
                    The children expected some fearful sight. Penn intended to throw himself on
                        his uncle's side; Aquilla felt that he did not care what became of
                        Aquilla, and Sister and Willie wailed aloud.
                    But what they did see was Mr. Marsh suddenly dropping like an avalanche,
                        shaking the cabin with his fall, and picking himself up to fall again as he
                        met the old gentleman's trained arm. Again and again Mr. Marsh went
                        down before he could lunge  his strength upon
                        his slim antagonist, and finally he sat upon the foor as if shaggily
                        meditating on force more wonderful than the departed power of the
                        Shawnees.
                    The door opened and a distant thud came from earth smitten by some clinking
                        tool. Mr. Marsh turned his head and saw Dan's back capped by the
                        closing door and the grandmother in useless pursuit. He knew Dan had thrown
                        his hatchet out, and the half-crazed man laughed a great roar in returning
                        good nature, rocking on the boards at Mr. Roseladies' feet.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER XVII.
                        THE LAST DAY ON THE WABASH.
                    DOWN to breakfast, and to meet Aunt Jane, came the
                        ex-Diggers next morning, subdued good boys, sore and stiff and one of them
                        not only willing but anxious to take his quinine. Formidable as Aunt Jane
                        was, the Titanic being to whom they felt like bowing themselves was Uncle
                        Roseladies, sitting deaf and placid as he sat every morning, though this
                        time out of regard to the adult guest he had no book open beside his
                        plate.
                    Aunt Jane had extracted from Sister the har- rowing story of their digging
                        and its consequences. She was prepared with sentence and about to put
                        sentence into execution. Sarah sat red and pale, her hands trembling among
                        the cups, and Mrs. MacAllister stood behind the kitchen door, her arms
                        folded across her dejected breast.
                    
                    Aunt Jane said she had mentioned to the chil- dren's parents, before
                        their departure, that an ex- cellent select school would be kept in
                        Greensburg during the summer, where the children could be properly curbed if
                        they proved troublesome down on the Wabash. And the parents had left the
                        matter in Aunt Jane's hands and begged her to keep account of any
                        expense she might incur, which they would make good on their return.
                    " Half railroad fare will be charged for only two of you,"
                        she observed, eating her omelette with niceness and precision. "And
                        the school bill will be sent in at the end of the term."
                    " But this is vacation," put forth Penn, although he was
                        too much humbled to express all the re- bellion of his spirit.
                    Aunt Jane looked at him with her full-orbed commanding eye. His sandy-faced
                        distress could have no effect on her plans: "If Mariana had not
                        shared in the boys' misbehavior I should be glad to leave her and
                        Noanie here."
                    "All that Sister did she did for pure love, Aunt," trembled
                        Sarah. " Blame and punish me, not her."
                    
                    " On that very account," continued Aunt Jane, considering
                        her niece's pretty arms in their muslin sleeves, "I think
                        Mariana would better go home with me, and the baby, of course, cannot be
                        left here quite away from every member of her own family."
                    Aquilla groaned and drooped his head over the table. "Do you feel
                        the chill coming on? " asked Willie solemnly.
                    "I was just thinking of Francis I. of France when he lost the battle
                        of Pavia and wrote to his mother, 'Madam, all is lost but
                        honor'! "
                    Aunt Jane fixed her exceedingly sane eye upon her precocious young
                        relative.
                    " Do you know how many wars China has had, Aunt Jane?" he
                        asked, perhaps with the view of diverting her mind from its present dreadful
                        line of action.
                    " I am not dealing with Chinese warfare," she replied, with
                        grim humor. "My business is with the last raid made upon the
                        Indians, and matters therefrom resulting. The trunks can be packed soon
                        after breakfast I know you are neat-handed  at
                        packing, Sarah, and I count particularly on your
                        help."'
                    "I am glad I am something," whispered Sarah.
                    "Papa, did you know Aunt Jane is positively de- ciding to go home
                        again right away?" she called to her father in a gentle shout.
                    He lifted his eyebrows and nodded his head in assent.
                    "To-morrow morning," corrected Aunt Jane.
                    "Certainly he knows it. I made a point of rising early this morning
                        to talk it over with him. Mean- time-" she lifted her coffeecup and
                        drank, exactly and with no sound, as Aunt Jane never failed to do, which
                        pause gave Penn a chance to wink conspiracy at Aquilla. They would have one
                        more day, and might do a great deal in that little bundle of hours.
                    "Meantime," Aunt Jane finished, "the boys may be
                        locked in that old school-room upstairs. They can amuse themselves with
                        games and reading, and be within call. We shall know where they are all the
                        time."
                    "That's curtailing our liberties, as the British  did when they passed the Stamp Act,"
                        said Aquilla.
                    "And very grateful you may be," pronounced Aunt Jane, in
                        solidly convincing tone, " to get off with such a light curtailing
                        of your liberties, con- sidering the nature of your offence."
                    Willie remembered Mr. Marsh and felt able to resign the out-door world and
                        trot submissively upstairs.
                    It was surely the fairest day of the season, splendid in coloring, delicious
                        to lungs and sight and mind. The barnyard cackle, the twitter of birds, the
                        river's wash, and the voices of free people in bowery distances,
                        came distinctly enough through huge windows at the end of the
                        school-room.
                    Aunt Jane laid Robinson Crusoe on the platform table, and
                        carried off the key from the locked door in her own pocket.
                    From being rarely ever used the schoolroom had fallen into a state of dust
                        and general dreariness. Some refuse chairs awaited the boys, but they sat
                        down at first on the edge of the platform, scouring it with their uneasy
                        wriggling.
                    
                     "If it wasn't for Uncle Roseladies I'd get out of
                        the window," growled Penn. "I wouldn't stay shut
                        up here."
                    Aquilla sighed, having just partaken of a fresh pellet of quinine and knowing
                        another would meet him at the dinner table. Mrs. MacAllister was determined
                        to cure him by double dosing in the limited time left her.
                    "Well," he said, "I s'pose we shall pass
                        our lives as prisonersof-state. Mary Queen of Scots lived about eighteen
                        yearsin prison, and Elizabeth had a dose of it herself before she came to
                        the throne and had a chance to try it on her cousin."
                    "Don't know what Aunt Jane put old Crusoe in here
                        for," growled Penn. " Wille knew that by
                        heart two years ago."
                    "Yes, it is a story about a hairy man that looked like Mr.
                        Marsh," said Willie.
                    "I wanted to stay around here," lamented Penn,
                        "and get Uncle Roseladies to teach me to hit out, as he did last
                        night. I think Uncle Roseladies is the nicest old gentleman I ever saw,
                        boys. What'd we done if it hadn't been for him? --yes, and
                        he  made Dan's father row us all home
                        just as though nothing had happened."
                    " Uncle Roseladies would make a good general," said
                        Aquilla. "He bossed things around in the enemy's country
                        like old Hannibal or Charles XII. of Sweden. I told Sister last night coming
                        home in the boat that girls were a good deal smarter and braver than I
                        thought they were. She was almost as gritty as that Scotch lady who made a
                        door-bar of her arm and let them break it while the king was getting away.
                        Some boys wouldn'thave acted any better than
                        Sister."
                    "H'm!" said Penn. "I'd like to
                        see a boy follow through dark and brush after a parcel of
                        simpletons."
                    "I would have let Sister have every bit of my Indian
                        money," ruminated Willie.
                    Though unconscious that any gratitude towards her moved in the
                        ex-Diggers' bosoms, Sister felt in durance with them all day, and
                        fitted under the windows or stayed in the vicinity of the door. She found in
                        the library a quaint old copy of Grimm's stories, with
                        illustrations and tail-pieces a  study in
                        themselves. It was bound in wooden covers, the boards eclipsed in a striped
                        merino case. Sister did not know this was one of Uncle Roseladies'
                        small treasures, and she made an offer- ing of it to the boys as they
                        trailed upstairs after dinner. By that time they felt quarrelsome instead of
                        chastened and more deeply humble as they should have felt ; and it
                        wonderfully shortened the long afternoon: that calling, sweet-smelling, sun-
                        ripened afternoon, into which they might not plunge, and of which something
                        worse than sick- ness seemed to rob them. Penn and Aquilla prodded each
                        other into taking turns at reading aloud.
                    Cousin Sarah was busy under Aunt Jane's direc- tion much of the day.
                        Towards evening Sister herself was put into her travelling dress so none of
                        her clothing might remain unpacked. It was Cousin Sarah who made the change,
                        and she kept her pretty white eyelids down avoiding her little
                        cousin's eyes. Here ashes-of-roses hair was dis- turbed into more
                        than its usual aureole about her face; yet she kept trying to smile with
                        trembling  mouth-corners, until with a sudden
                        abandonment of restraint she threw her arms around Sister and sobbed.
                    " O Cousin Sarah, I do love you so much I " ex- claimed
                        Mariana. Aunt Jane being down stairs and they being alone in the chamber
                        where the dolls' carnival was held, Sister felt that her decla-
                        ration came at a fitting moment.
                    " Don't say it," wept Cousin Sarah,
                        "especially when I am just going to do something a great deal worse
                        than I have done yet. O Sister, when I went East to visit, they used to talk
                        about our West as if it were a howling wilderness, and we were all
                        ourang-outangs--when they didn't know one thing about us, the
                        small-souled creatures! Farms! they called ten acres a farm, when we think
                        nothing of hundreds of acres. And they were ignorant--with their mighty
                        culture!--of the commonest historical and literary facts such as my father
                        taught me before I was in my teens; and they dropped their g's and
                        r's! I used to inwardly rage against a blocky,
                        impassive older civilization which loftily assumed it knew it all  And now I feel just that way toward Aunt
                        Jane!"
                    Sister felt that this time Cousin Sarah had confided a deep and deady secret
                        to her keeping, and it weighed upon her a few moments until the
                        freckle-powdered face lifted itself from her shoulder laughing.
                    "Now I've got rid of my poison resentment and feel
                        wholesome again. You must surely come to see me next summer,
                        Sister," said Cousin Sarah, drying the rims of her eyes.
                        "I shall be a year older and quite cured of playing with dolls. And
                        you will be a year older, and both of us grown more in the favor and
                        approval of our elders."
                    "I wish you would always stay just as you are," said Sister
                        Bidgood pensively.
                    "Flattering child! to want a foolish cousin entranced here in the
                        blue air beside the Wabash."
                    Blue and most entrancing appeared the up-river distances as evening settled
                        down from the bluffs. The boys propped up the window sashes and leaned out,
                        Penn remembering with unavailing anguish all those islands he had meant to
                        explore  and camp out on; densely wooded ones
                        like boats of vegetation boating; shaggy ones, horned with prepared rocks;
                        sandy reefs sparkling with shells; sumptuous, meadow-like stretches which
                        parted the river into two narrow sinewy arms; and points of isles which
                        combed the river into long shining strands of water.
                    "We've cut ourselves out of lots of fun this summer, us
                        fellows have," said Penn, deject- edly.
                    "Yes, our conspiracy turned out wrong, like the Earl of
                        Essex's," said Aquilla. "Do you believe Elizabeth
                        in her grandest days was ever more of an autocrat than Aunt Jane
                        is?"
                    "'Aunt Jane isn't an autocrat," observed
                        Willie who felt sure of his political information; "she's
                        a depublican."
                    "You great goose," growled Penn, turning on his little
                        amber-eyed brother, "go and tell Noanie to quit knocking; we
                        can't let her in."
                    For at intervals all the afternoon Honora had come and struck the schoolroom
                        door with her small palms, crying:
                    
                    Open 'e doe for 'e child'n.' Boys, boys;
                        open 'e doe for 'e
                        child'n'"
                    Willie quieted her importunity this last time; for they would soon be called
                        down to tea and then bundled to bed for an early morning start; and coming
                        back, leaned his head upon his win- dow sill so that all the unfaded west
                        came within his gaze.
                    "That's a pretty mound across the river, any-
                        how," he stated in the very teeth of failure and humiliation.
                    "Boys!" pronounced a drawling voice from the ground under
                        the window, drawing them to hang across the sills into the dewy dusk. There
                        stood Dan, tranquil-eyed and ragged, with a bundle under his left elbow.
                    " Where did you go last night when you slipped off?"
                        pointedly inquired Penn at once.
                    "I kind o' kep' around in the woods where mother
                        could fetch me some vittles," responded Dan, unemotionally.
                        "I've run off. I'm going down to Shawneetown to
                        stay awhile with some of mother's kin. Mebbe I'll go West
                        while I'm  about it," he
                        ruminated gently. "I calkilated to look around out there this long
                        spell."
                    Cautiously inquired Willie: "Where's your father,
                        Dan?"
                    "Down to the boat-house smokin' his pipe. Pap
                        won't let up," explained Dan in his indiffer- ent drawl.
                        " He's bound and determined to give my thumbs to the
                        Injuns. I want my thumbs my- self. Mother, she thinks he'll forget
                        it after the mound grasses over."
                    "Has he filled the hole yet?" inquired Willie, stretching a
                        fearful neck downward.
                    "No. He's waitin' for thumbs."
                    "We ain't going to stay here,
                        either," whispered Willie, clasping his own thumbs under
                        appreciative fingers. "Whose do you s'pose he'll
                        take, Dan?"
                    "I dunno," responded Dan with soft careless- ness.
                        "Boys!" He gazed warily about and rose on tiptoe.
                        "I ben up to the hole ag'in."
                    "Yes you have!" exclaimed Penn with strong admiration and
                        unbelief.
                    "I 'lowed I'd see what that thing was we run
                        ag'inst "
                    
                    "Was it money?" demanded Penn.
                    "Was it the crown?" put Aquilla
                    "Nah," said Dan in light scorn. "Nothin'
                        but an Injun kittle full of arry-heads. I don't b'lieve
                        there is no crown or pot of money now."
                    "Are you sorry you was bad, Dan?" sympa- thetically
                        inquired Willie as Dan's brown shaft of forearm passed across the
                        bridge of Dan's delicate nose.
                    "No, I ain't," responded the Wabash boy
                        flatly.
                    "But I don't keerto know what's in that mound like
                        I done before I done looked. You fellers watch out for yourselves, will
                        ye?" he hinted as his feet stirred to move away in the dew.
                    "We're all right," assured Penn.
                        "Good-by, Dan. I hope you'll have a good visit."
                        '
                    Dan breathed a quick incredulous breath through his nose. Then he turned and
                        ran through the dew toward the Wabash, and they heard no more of him except
                        a screech-owl cry which Penn an- swered.
                
            
        
    
