
      ----CITATION---- 
        Catherwood, Mary Hartwell,
                              1847-1902. Spanish Peggy: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3902
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
                    Spanish Peggy
               
               
               
               	Frontispiece
                    
                         
                              YOUNG LINCOLN AT THE COOPER'S SHOP
                         
                    
                    
               
               
               
                    
                         Spanish Peggy:
                         A STORY OF YOUNG ILLINOIS
                    
                    BY MARY HARTWEL CATHERWOOD
                    
                    
                         HERBERT S. STONE & CO.
                         CHICAGO & NEW YORK
                         1899
                    
               
               
               
               	Verso
                    
                         COPYRIGHTED, 1899, BY HERBRT S.STONE & CO.
                    
               
               
               
               	Dedication
                    
                    TO SUETHE DEAR YOUNG SECRETARY WHO GATHERED
                              THE MATERIAL, AND HELPED ME MAKE THIS STORY
               
               
               
               	Preface
                    
                         The ridge on which New Salem stood has not now one log upon
                              another. The trees, the grass, the sky, old witnesses of old doings,
                              are there, as they were in Abraham Lincoln's day; but the swarming
                              village life is gone.
                    
                    
                         However, open your eyes: look carefully, and you may see on
                              that ridge and its environment this story lived again.
                    
               
          
          
               
               
                    SPANISH PEGGY
                    
                         I
                         ABRAHAM LINCOLN lay stretched on his stomach, his head supported by his
                              hands, facing the cooper's fireplace. A blaze of shavings and
                              blocks lighted cobwebby beams overhead, clean staves and hoop-poles
                              standing around the wall, the cooper's work-bench and tools,
                              and the lank, aguish face of a man who sat on a keg beside the hearth,
                              holding a book from which the young student recited. The shop had part
                              of a log left out in the side, filled, like all New Salem window with
                              oiled paper instead of glass. Outer darkness made this a blurred
                              oblong framed by logs.
                         People knew that the cooper let young Linoln turn his shop into a study
                              an hour or two every evening, and no one before this night had come
                              picking at the latch.
                         "The string's pulled in, Minter," said
                              Lincln, turning his head, as suppressed laughter and a shuffle of feet
                              on the log step disturbed his recitation. "Never mind the
                              boys; they'll go away pretty soon."
                         "Maybe the Grove fellows have come to town," said the
                              aguish young man on the keg, listening anxiously.
                              "They'd as lief break in the cooper's paper
                              as not"
                         "I reckon we'd better hurry, anyway," urged
                              the  student, and he continued repeating
                              as rapidly as he could the remainder of the lesson.
                         Presently with a click the door turned back on its wooden hinges and
                              bumped the wall.
                         "I know you, Slicky;" declared the interrupted scholar
                              without looking. "Come in. Folks wouldn't give you
                              the name of Slicky Green if you hadn't a way of getting what
                              you want." He scooped a double handful of blocks and shavings
                              on the blaze, and, warned by some unusual restraint at the door,
                              hastily drew up his length before the fire. It showed him a slim giant
                              in blue homespun trousers, which did not quite cover his ankles, and
                              an open roundabout hanging loosely from the shoulders, and betraying
                              the fact that his vest was buttoned crooked. Seeing a stranger on the
                              threshold with the boy he called Sicky, Lincoln ran his hand through
                              his dark hair, leaving it tossed in every direction.
                         " How did you know I was home from college, Abe? Dick and I
                              rode in from the farm on purpose to see you. This is Dick Yates, one
                              of our boys from the Jacksonville school. Dick, this is Abe
                              Lincoln."
                         "How do you do, Dick? " said Abe, offering his
                              hand.
                         "How do you do, Abe?" said Dick, seizing it.
                         "And here's our schoolmaster, Minter
                              Grayham;" continued Slicky, presenting the pale occupant of
                              the keg. Minter rose with the dignity of a man who often pronounced
                              words of five syllables. The mounting firelight found reflecting
                              threads in Dick Yates's bright auburn hair. The schoolmaster
                              thought him a beauti-  ful young fellow,
                              with modest manners. His features, perfectly modeled and rosy as a
                              girl', were manly, from full forehead to outstanding chin.
                              Though of a robust, well-knit figure for a lad of eighteen, his head
                              barely reached Lincoln's shoulder as the two stood looking at
                              each other.
                         "I've been telling Dick so much about you, Abe, that
                              he wanted to see you," said Slicky.
                         Abe blushed and Dick blushed, with eager friendliness and recognition of
                              power.
                         "Are you studying Blakstone?" inquired Dick,
                              indicating the huge book which Minter Grayham held closed.
                         "Yes. It's mighty interesting reading to
                              me."
                         "I'm going to study law, too. But it scares me to
                              death to begin a debate; and Slicky says you make a fine
                              speech."
                         "If I ever met you as an opponent, I'd want some
                              advantage. S'pose we make a compact to work together on our
                              first case?"
                         "Done!" said Yates. " It's as good
                              as won."
                         " William Green! " spoke a girl's voice from
                              the humid spring darkness outside; " have you forgot how bad
                              the wolves are in the timber we have to ride through?"
                         "Come in, girls!" exclaimed the proprietor of the
                              rough study. His tutor echoed the invitation. " It's
                              Abe's recess. Come in, Nancy and Ann Rutledge, and the rest
                              of you."
                         Half a dozen figures emerged from the night of the village street,
                              bearing Nancy Green company, laughing  and
                              half reluctant; and let themselves be coaed into sharing a long bench
                              which the boys drew up before the fire. It was like an invasion of
                              swallows. Abe raked up all the shavings and blocks and brought them to
                              the hearth. A festive spirit filled the place. Nearly all the girls
                              were bareheaded, in linsey dresses. They had stepped out of their
                              homes along the winding road for the mere pleasure of being abroad and
                              free from tasks at the end of the day; with the exception of Nancy
                              Green, and Martha Bell Clary, who had come from Clary's Grove
                              to stay all night with Mahala Cameron. A similar group of young people
                              in a French cabin would have cleared the floor directly for dancing,
                              all the merrier for having met unexpectedly. But these children of
                              serious Massachusetts, Tennessee, Carolina, and Kentucky pioneers held
                              experience meeting instead. The state was still so young, and their
                              knowledge of the wide world so limited, that they and their elders
                              took primitive delight in telling over their own advenures. The
                              oftener a story was repeated the more dignity it acquired.
                         "Talking about wolves," said young Green, when nobody
                              had said a word about wolves since the girls' entrance,
                              looking at his sister with sly enjoyment, "I was going afoot
                              to the mill early one morning last summer, and met two in the path--a
                              black one and a gray one. I stood still and looked at them, and they
                              stood still and looked at me. I knew if I turned to run they would
                              pull me down in a minute. Finally I whipped out my jack-knife and cot
                              a rosin-weed, and lashed at  them, yelling
                              with all my might. They were so scared " they ran like
                              sheep."
                         "Or like that wagon that you stopped before wecame to
                              Illinois," retorted his sister Nancy. "When daddy
                              was going to move from Car'lina he bought a new wagon. We
                              children had never seen such a thing, and we climbed the spokes, and
                              William took hold of the chain on the tongue. The wagon started down
                              hill, and everybody let go but William. The tongue ran into a tree and
                              broke, and left the chain in his hand. 'I was going to hold
                              on if it killed me, mother' says he. 'For if that
                              wagon had got away, how were we going to move out to the
                              Illinois?'"
                         "Speaking about sheep," continued young Green, as if
                              he had not heard the wagon story, " daddy told Nancy when she
                              was herding the sheep, that she must carry a bag with her and save the
                              wool that stuck to the bushes. Our old ewe was tame, and it was easier
                              to pick the wool off her back than to hunt through the bushes. So
                              Nancy picked the old ewe, and came home with a full poke two nights
                              hand running. The first night daddy praised her; but the second night
                              he found it out!"
                         "I wasn't ten years old then," remembered
                              Nancy; "and my conscience hurt me worse the first night than
                              daddy's punishment did the second."
                         " That reminds me, Nancy," said Lincoln, "of
                              what your mother told me Slicky did when he was about ten years old.
                              He brought in some frozen eggs and raked out the coals and put the
                              eggs to thaw on her best pewter  platter.
                              She said when she found the melted pewter running all over the hearth
                              she felt discouraged about him!"
                         Ann Rutledge laughed, and flung one of her thick auburn braids behind
                              her shoulder.
                         "Haven't you any tale to tell of Abe, Minter
                              Grayham?"
                         Minter Grayham, used to having his name prolonged by the soft Southern
                              drawl with gentle familiarity, smiled and shook his head. No one
                              around the cooper's fire place had a sense of the degradation
                              of poverty or the triviaity of any human eperience. Life inNew Salem
                              was full of zest which they brought from Massachusetts, from Kentucky
                              and Tennessee and Carolina mountains, and from good English ancestry;
                              though it was merely the ordinary pioneer life of a young state.
                         As Abe cast on more fuel and the blaze flared higher, a scream like a
                              rabbit's pierced the doorway, and some thing writhed over the
                              step on the puncheon floor. A furious woman, the vision of a witch,
                              with beard growing tufted on her long chin, whacked the writhing
                              object with a crutch as hard as she could plant the blows. Ann
                              Rutledge screamed.
                         "Hold on!" cried Lincoln in two or three long strides.
                              "Don't do that!" He received on his arm the
                              last stroke of the stick, which the woman carried with her as she ran
                              from him.
                         "Oh, my dear!" said Ann, brushing shavings off a
                              little girl whom she helped up from the floor, "are you
                              hurt?"
                         
                         "Sally got me that time!" the child answered, hopping
                              to balance herself, and laughing while tears ran down her cheeks.
                              "She took my crutch from me so I couldn t run. But I saw this
                              door open, and goody! I'm in!"
                         "And she was born a white woman!" cried Ann
                              indignantly. "Sally Shickshack behaves like a savage! You
                              would think she was the Indian and Shickshack the white."
                         "I'm nimbler than Sally when I have my
                              crutch," laughed the child, still weeping through her
                              laughter, and trying to swallow her sobs. Ann and Dick Yates helped
                              her to the cooper's bench. Piteous and courageous as the
                              little figure was, the other girls looked at her with disfavor, and
                              one of the younger Rudledges whispered to Mahaa Cameron that
                              "a certain person was always tagging Ann," as if
                              resenting interference with a sister's privilege.
                         "Never mind, Peggy," said Lincoln, cheerfully.
                              "Sally will make a man of you if hard knocks can do it. Where
                              are Shickshack and the boy?"
                         "They haven't come in from hunting yet."
                         "And Sally took the opportunity to enjoy herself"
                         He drew his own large bandanna handkerchief out of his pocket and kindly
                              wiped the child's face. She hiccoughed in her effort to
                              control more tears, and smiled at him. Ann kept one arm around her,
                              and brushed down the hair which straggled to her shoulders. Peggy had
                              a colorless, aquiline face, and a prominent though tiny  mouth, her short upper lip failing to quite
                              conceal her teeth. Her dress was of soft tanned deerskin, and showed
                              by its lines that it had been cut out by a masculine knife instead of
                              by feminine scissors. There was scarcely a fold to conceal her slim
                              shape, and its scantiness displayed one moccasined foot hanging down.
                              Her other foot was curled under the bench, while pointing staight at
                              the fire was a wooden leg strapped to her knee. She tried with careful
                              hands to spread the skin drapery over it.
                         Dick Yates could not help looking at her with curiosity. Even in that
                              time when so many mixed elements went to the creating of a settlement,
                              she was an unusual figure. Ann Rutledge, seeking on Peggy's
                              head and back the welts left by the crutch, noticed the inquiry in his
                              eye and answered it.
                         "She is not Sally Shickshack's child, or
                              Shickshack's, either. They have been in New Salem only a
                              little while. He is a Sac Indian, and likes to live among white men.
                              His white wife you saw. She has a stepson, I think, a Canadian boy.
                              There are four in the family. Shickshack and his wife have no children
                              of their own, though people say she was married twice before. He is
                              good Indian."
                         The good Indian that moment appeared at the door with his
                              wife's stepson behind him. That he had almost come upon his
                              wife in the act of using the crutch was evident, for he carried the
                              crutch in his hand, and had not yet unslung from his back a full
                              game-bag. His gun he rested against the wall within the door.
                         "Come in, everybody," cried young Green.
                              "Alll  New Salem is on a frolic
                              to-night. Sally has just been here enjoying herself, Shickshack, and
                              we expected you and Antywine would follow."
                         The Indian with dignity stepped upon the puncheons, and as soon as he
                              saw Peggy a look of satisfacon relieved the tension of his face. She
                              sat still within Ann Rutledge's arm, but gave the men of her
                              family an affectionate glance. Antywine, who had probably been
                              christened Antoine, and was known to bear the name of La Chance, kept
                              shyly in the background, lifting himself with a graceful spring to sit
                              by the vise on the cooper's high work-bench. But Shickshack
                              strode forward to sit in full council, as became his age and
                              character, Minter Grayham hastily giving him the keg.
                         The blaze showed his moccasins roughened by much tramping, and his
                              leggin, fringed down the outside seams. But Shickshack had compromised
                              with the white man's dress by substituting a roundabout for a
                              hunting-shirt. This was buttoned around the breech-cloth girding his
                              waist, but stood open, showing his sinewy red neck at the top. He had
                              also let his hair grow, and it made a black thatch upon his head.
                         Dick Yates gave Shickshack the grave salutation which he knew an Indian
                              loved. The Sac fastened his eyes on Dick as the chief man at the fire,
                              and the one for whom perhaps it had been kindled. Though his face did
                              not betray it, he was pleased also to hear the young pale face talking
                              to Peggy under the chatter of other voices.
                         
                         "You have as much spunk as a boy," approved Dick.
                              " I like to see a little girl able to hush up
                              crying."
                         "But I am not a little girl,' said Peggy. "I
                              am fifteen years old."
                         "Fifteen, Peggy! You can't be fifteen! I Ithought you
                              were about ten."
                         "That's because I am so little for my age. And my name
                              isn't really Peggy."
                         "They called you Peggy."
                         "That's because I have a peg leg. My own name is
                              Consuelo Lorimer. And I have another that the Sacs called
                              me."
                         Everybody who went to Minter Grayham's schoolhouse, knew that
                              her name was set down as Consuelo Lorimer on his book. It meant
                              nothing in New Salem, but Yates heard it with quick interest.
                         "Was old Don Luis Lorimer, who used to be a Spanish governor
                              down the river a long while ago, any relation of yours?"
                         Shickshack on his keg uttered so strong a grunt that all the others
                              stopped talking and listened.
                         "The young chief knows a heap," said Shicksback.
                         "I only know there was such a governor, on old Spanish
                              ground-part French himself, but his wife was pure Spanish.
                              I've been to Cape Girardau. But I don't know whether
                              he has any living descendants or not."
                         " Last grandchild," said Shickhack, indicating Peggy.
                              Her eyes moved apprehensively from white lad to Indian.
                         
                         "Then you're a Spaniard," said Dick.
                         "I'm not a Spaniard!" denied Peggy, facing
                              down the accusation vehemently. .I'm white!"
                         "Spaniards are white."
                         "I'm white like folks in New Salem," insisted
                              Peggy, repudiating the vague foreign taint. She saw the young
                              Rutledges and Mahala Cameron and Martha Bell Clary looking at her
                              suspiciously. Spanish governors cut no figure in the imagination of
                              New Salemites.
                         "I suppose you are of mixed blood and really ought to be called
                              a Creole," pursued Dick, interested in the case.
                         "That's a kind of a pullet," whispered Martha
                              Bell to Mahala.
                         "I'm not of mixed blood!" cried Peggy, unable
                              to bear any more.
                         " Why, everybody here is of mixed blood!" asserted
                              Dick, and that was a comfort. It gave her the chance to look back at
                              her antagonists.
                         "Have you never told her that she was Spanish?" Dick
                              inquired of Shickshack.
                         The silent Indian shook his head. His impassive face glowed in the
                              firelight. Young Yates seemed to have cast a spell on him. From the
                              contents of his heavy game-bag, which he had unsung as he entered and
                              left beside his gun, to the secrets of his past, he was ready to lay
                              everything he owned at the young chief's feet.
                         "How did the Sac brave come to adopt the Spanish
                              child?" inquired Dick.
                         
                         Shickshack silently admired his knowledge of how to address a Sac brave
                              without offensively shouting out that brave's name in public.
                         "No father. No mother. Me hunt with her father on the Platte.
                              Me love white men since that time. Never in my life me shed white
                              man's blood. When he die he give his child to
                              me."
                         "Was Peggy lame from the first?" inquired Ann.
                         Shickshack looked at her steadily without replying. Then he shook his
                              head.
                         "Me love white men. Me marry white woman," he
                              answered; and dropped his face.
                         "Does he mean that Sally lamed her?" whispered Ann to
                              Lincoln.
                         "Sally is a mighty energetic woman," admitted Lincoln,
                              smiling from the hearth corner. A huge mole showed in the crease made
                              under his cheek by a smile.
                         "Will the young chief be here to-morrow?" Shickshack
                              asked Dick Yates.
                         "No. We must go ack to Jacksonville to-morrow."
                         Slicky Green added that it was not vacation time. The two had begged a
                              day off on account of his extreme homesickness, and would have to ride
                              early next morning.
                         "Me like to talk," said the Sac, fixing his gaze on
                              Dick. "Me have somehing for the young chief's
                              ear."
                         "We can take a walk together now," suggested Dick.
                         Shickshack rose up at once. The sheath of a long hunting-knife hung down
                              his side by a leather strap. He had kept Peggy's crutch in
                              his hand. He stood it  against the wall
                              beside the chimney, and Dick stepped over the bench to follow him.
                         "Hello! " shouted a cheerful voice. Two horses were
                              brought up abreast, facing the door, their hoofs at the very step.
                              Light shone out over them and their riders, revealing the weekly
                              mail-carrier ith the post-bag from Springfield bulging on each side of
                              his saddle, and his leggins splashed with mud; and a stranger having
                              black eyes and hair and mustache, whose entire equipment was
                              foreign.
                         Shickshack stood while he drew one breath and looked at the stranger.
                              For the first time a Sac war-whoop was heard in New Salem, and as he
                              yelled he snathed his hunting-knife from its sheath.
                    
                    
                    
                         II
                         THE whole village knew before bedtime how Shickshack had threatened the
                              stranger. A community of interest as swift as the telephone carried
                              news the length of the winding street.
                         "Shickshack screeched loud enough to be heard at
                              Wolf," gasped Mahala Cameron, telling the tale to her folks,
                              "and drew his knife and jumped at the man like a
                              wildcat!"
                         "And Abe Lincoln and the other boys caught him," put
                              in Martha Bell Clary, assisting her. "The man's
                              horse and the mail-carrier's horse both reared up-they were
                              scared nearly to death like the rest of us! But just as soon as the
                              boys caught hold of Shickshack he dropped his head and stood like he
                              was ashamed."
                         "He's a live Indian yet," said Mahaa
                              Cameron's father. " He'll stir himself and
                              take a scalp one of these days. I wonder what he had against the
                              stranger?"
                         Rutldge's tavern entertained rare travelers who stayed over
                              night in New Salem. The candles were all put out early, yet before
                              folks covered their fires they had in some way absorbed the facts
                              about the new arrival. He was a well-spoken man, with a foreign twist
                              to his tongue, inclined to laugh at the rage of Shickshack, whom he
                              knew very well. He told openlv that 
                              
                                   THE OLD MILL AT NEW SALEMFrom a painting by Mrs.
                                        Bennett
                               he was Don Pedro Lorimer, a
                              sugar planter from the island of Cuba and that his errand through the
                              States was political in the main; though he intended when other
                              matters pressed him less, to remove his half wild young cousin,
                              Consuelo Lorimer, from the care of the Indian, who had taken advantage
                              of her father's death on the plains to adopt her.
                         A tropical sun had given him the darkest skin ever carried by a white
                              man around New Salem. He walked abroad in the early morning; and
                              having had Shickshack's closed house pointed out to him,
                              stood and looked at it smiling, without attempting to enter.
                         The Indian and his adopted daughter were not seen abroad during that
                              day, though both of them were accustomed to live outdoors at all
                              seasons. Shickshack said he loved to see the deer galloping in the
                              bottoms, or to watch them as they gathered in herds, the sun shining
                              in their eyes.
                         New Salem was a single long and winding street on a high ridge, which
                              sloped so suddenly on both sides that all the gardens ran down hill.
                              Seen from the schoolhouse, it looked like huge wave of earth riding
                              against the northern orizon. The schoolhouse, standing at the base of
                              another ridge, was divided from the village by a deep ravine, through
                              which ran a small stream called Rock Creek.
                         The schoolhouse was the only meeting-place. Its log stack and white clay
                              chimney represented church, town hall, and theater-if so godless a
                              place as a theater had been allowed--in
                              New Salem. It was headquarters on muster days, and the arena of those
                              wordy wars which the pioneers called debates. Eager to hear any
                              strange, new thing, the whole town flocked across Rock Creek as soon
                              as candles began to bloom like primroses at dusk in boot-shaped
                              sconces on the schoolhouse walls. It might be that the cousin of
                              Shickshack's girl had not as much to say as he had given out
                              that he had. But New Salem would hear him and judge. Minter
                              Grayham's pupils-particularly the smaller ones-were lined up
                              on front benches, which their own long use had worn to the smoothness
                              of glass. The stranger had advertised through their schoolmaster that
                              he would give the prize of a book to any boy or girl who could, at the
                              close of the lecture, stand up and spell correctly the word
                              Ompompancoosuck!
                         Unusual war had raged on the playground at both recesses and noon
                              concerning the spelling of this word. Camps divided to play Indian or
                              Horsethief met to wrangle over combinations of letters. Some sly ones
                              who thought they were going to get the prize, retired to puzzle alone.
                              Minter Gmayham, who taught a modest amount of spelling, the Testament,
                              the English Reader, and the Rule of Three in arithmetic to advanced
                              scholars, was in honor obliged to look as ignorant as he felt in this
                              great matter.
                         Some women saw with consternation that the boys from Clary's
                              Grove were gathered on the back seats, a couple of dozen young
                              villains, whose leader, Redmond 
                              
                                   
                                        DON PEDRO LORIMER AT THE SCHOOLHOUSE
                                   
                              
                              Clary, was the most desperate rider in
                              the Sangamon country. The gravest charge against these uncurbed youths
                              was their determination to govern the commmunity. In them the life of
                              the frontier found its wildest expression. When one them had a colt to
                              break, he summoned the others, and they forced it into the Sangamon
                              River. One sat on its back, another hung to its tail, and the rest
                              clung about and hampered it in every way. The untamed thing, obliged
                              to swim for its life carrying weight, finally came out of the water a
                              subdued beast. They were ready to deal in like manner with anything
                              that antgonized them. Each man had brought an egg carefully bestowed
                              on his person, and at a concerted signal he expected to throw it at
                              the lecturer, for the mere sport of seeing an uninteresting foreigner
                              smeared from head to foot. But he caught their fancy.
                         Don Pedro Lorimer, smiling on the plain men and women of New Salem, told
                              them he was traveling through the States to urge everywhere the
                              annexation of Cuba. He described the tropical luxuriance of Cuba, and
                              its relative position to the continent; and some of his hearers
                              learned for the first time that there was such a place. He told how
                              planters were made to suffer in estate by unjust tyranny of a
                              dominating European power. Some like himself had even been driven into
                              exile, with only a remnant of their once large fortunes. So bad was
                              the government that people starved there in the midst of abundance. He
                              begged to have Cuba admitted into the Union. Such a novel plea had
                              never been urged before  upon men who
                              were struggling to get a living out of the scarcely upturned sod of a
                              new State.
                         Some older men smiled at each other, thinking the United States had all
                              she could do at that time to take care of her own territory. But it
                              was flattering to have a rich island, represented by an elegant man of
                              the world dressed in the best clothes which money could buy,appealing
                              to them for protection; and they helped their neighbors stamp vigorous
                              applause every time he rounded one of his glowing periods
                              with--"If Cuba may only be annexed to America!"
                         Still there was a hard-headed element that held out against the
                              stranger. They would give him fair play, but they would teat his
                              arguments.
                         "Look at Abe Lincoln;' one Carolina settler whispered
                              to another during the stir which followed the confusion.
                              "I'd like to hear what he thinks. He can beat this
                              fellow all hollow making a speech."
                         "Abe says the fellow looks just like gamblers he saw in New
                              Orleans when he went down with the flatboat."
                         "I allow" said a third Carolinian, "and I
                              have been watching him close, that this brown gentleman, with his
                              shiny hair and eyes, is a runaway slave putting on a bold face and
                              trying to get through to Canada. Some body-servant that knows how to
                              wear his master's clothes."
                         "What spite would Shickshack have against a runaway
                              slave?" objected the first man. "And his hair is as
                              straight as that little girl's at the
                              In'ian's cabin. I'd sooner take him for a horsethief.
                              We've had some fine looking horsethieves in this part of the
                              state."
                         Mahala Cameron's father, who, on account of building the mill,
                              had claimed and obtained the privilege of naming the town, and had
                              called it New Salem for old Salem where he was born on the
                              Massachusetts coast, put in his word.
                         "I had an uncle" he said, " that followed the
                              sea, and made voyages to Cuba. It's about such a place as the
                              man describes."
                         While private opinion thus see-sawed, the row of Minter
                              Grayham's pupils on the front benches, roused from drowsiness
                              to keen interest, stood tip at the stranger's bidding, and
                              accumulated the worst kind of a case aginst him. For however they
                              attempted Ompompanoosuck-- " O-w-m, owm;
                                   p-o-w-m, powm--' "A-u-m, aum; p-a-u-m,
                                   paum-" "O-m, om; p-o-m, pom; p-y, py,
                                   ompompy--" it was not right ; and the audience
                              began to laugh with appreciation of a joke. Matha Bell Clary heard her
                              own brother Redmond shouting with such delight as she struggled
                              hopelessly with Ompompanoosuck, that she turned and made what was
                              called in New Salem "a mouth" at him. Though the
                              lecturer endeared himself greatly to the Grove boys, it was plain he
                              had only put up Minter Grayham's scholars to be made
                              ridiculous before their parents and friends.
                         SI'd hate to have him for a relation, even if I was as  bad off as Peggy Shickshack,"
                              whispered Martha Bell to Mahala Cameron.
                         "So would I,' responded Mahala. "I
                              don't believe he has any book to give as a prize. And I
                              don't believe he has any plantation in Cuba,
                              either."
                         Shickshack's wife came in late, and sat by the school-house
                              door, looking steadily at the speaker. It was the first time the
                              village had ever seen her at any meeting. The women nearest were more
                              occupied in being repelled by her than they were with the annexation
                              of Cuba. It surprised nobody that she should come out to hear
                              Shickshack's enemy. But it surprised some who departed slowly
                              after the dismissal that she had a word or two, and touched hands with
                              the stranger as he passed by her at the door. An unlovely nature had
                              worked so long on features striking for angularity that she carried
                              habitually a malignant look. The boys of New Salem liked to venture on
                              Sally Shickshak's doorstep, or climb her garden fence, and
                              have her chase them with gourds of hot water. Though she had been so
                              short a time in the village, it was already known that Antywine La
                              Chance, a former husband's son, had not inherited a
                              fip'ny-bit of his father's property; and as a
                              ip'ny-bit was smaller than the proverbial shilling with which
                              heirs were sometimes cut off, it was plain Antywine La Chance had been
                              cheated by his stepmother.
                         Don Pedro Lorimer mounted his horse the following morning, and took the
                              eastward-stretching road which separated north and south beside the
                              Sangamon. He 
                              
                                   THE OAK AND THE ELM AT NEW
                                        SALEMGrowing on the spot where Lincoln's store
                                        stood
                              
                               nodded to everybody he saw along the
                              narrow street. His departure was as public as his errand had been, and
                              a not unkindly feeling went with him and would welcome him again. For
                              a man who traveled around at his own expense, without charging a
                              price, to lecture on the annexation of Cuba, must be in earnest; and
                              frontiersmen respected a person in earnest.
                         Lincoln usually closed his store soon after the village supper-time, in
                              order to recite his daily lesson to Minter Grayham in the cooper-shop.
                              Few customers were so belated as to need anything at the store when
                              candles were lighted. Those who dropped in met to talk and whittle;
                              and since the nightly study blaze had begun to show in the cooper-shop
                              these gossips felt obliged to seek another rendezvous. The law student
                              therefore found himself delayed by Shickshack, who entered with
                              Antywine as he was about to blow out the lights.
                         "What shall I show you, Shickshack?" said Lincoln.
                         The Indian looked around at a country stock: barrels of New Orleans salt
                              and sugar, and sacks of coffee; a few scant shelves of calico; hoes,
                              rakes and shovels; a grand leghorn bonnet or two, of mighty brim and
                              crown; threads, needles and pins; and all the simple necessities of
                              people on the edge of civilization. He shook his head.
                         "Me want to talk. Shut the door."
                         Lincoln closed the door and sat down on the counter, drawing up his
                              knees and encircling them with his arms in a favorite attitude for
                              relaxing chat; motioning his  visitors to
                              make use of the same high bench. Shickshack got up and curled his legs
                              under him Indian fashion, but Antywine remained standing by the door.
                              Two candles on a high shelf at the rear cast swaying shadows of the
                              white man and the red man and the crowded I objects in the little
                              store.
                         "I reckon all New Salem is talking to-night about the man you
                              were going to kill when he came to town."
                         Shickshack glowered at his young counselor.
                         "Me wrong to give the war-cry. Me ought to keep still, and stab
                              him in the dark! But when me that man me forget me Christian
                              Indian!"
                         "The whoop might pass muster better than the stab among
                              Christians,' suggested Lincoln.
                         Shickshack fixed his restless black eyes like the eyes of a
                              snapping-turtle on the rugged and sincere face before him.
                         "Pedro Lorimer is a bad white man. He not one of Don
                              Luis' sons."
                         "He says he wants Cuba annexd to the United States. Is he a
                              Cuban planter?"
                         The Sac uttered a contemptuous grunt.
                         "No! No planter. No Cuba. He is New Orleans man;
                              gambler."
                         "I reckoned so,' said Lincoln.
                         "Me live in my tribe's country, where the chief Black
                              Hawk has his village. Pedro Lorimer come there and trouble me. If my
                              tribe take my part, all the people who want their land will say,
                              'These Sacs are dangerous. Drive
                              them out.' So Black Hawk say to me, 'You love white
                              men: go to Belleville.' Me go to Belleville. Think me marry a
                              white woman; she help. An Indian cannot get a very good white woman.
                              But me see the Widow La Chance, and Antywine, her husband's
                              son. Me getting old; and Antywine is young. He can take care of the
                              child when me die. So year ago me marry the Widow La Chance. The first
                              thing she hurt the child. And Antywine" --Shickshack uttered
                              the words deliberately, turning his head toward the figure at the
                              door--" he is nothing but a squaw!"
                         Antywine opened the door and went out, closing it behind him, and
                              sitting down on the step.
                         "Pedro Lorimer follow to Belleville, and trouble me there. Me
                              come away to New Salem. The moon has not changed four times since me
                              come to New Salem; and he is here to trouble me again!"
                         "What does he want?" inquired Lincoln.
                         "He want the child's money."
                         "Has Peggy money? How much has she?"
                         The Indian held his hands less than a yard apart; the length of a
                              full-grown rattlesnake.
                         "A snakeskin full of gold."
                         "What have you done with it?"
                         "Me hide it from my white woman and Pedro Lorimer. Sometimes me
                              think she divide it with him, if he could help her get it. All day,
                              all year, she want that money herself. But she take what is
                              Antywine's; and was his father's, and give him
                              nothing."
                         
                         "You have fed and clothed Peggy by your own
                              labor."
                         "She is my adopted child. Me send her to white man's
                              school, too. Me give the schoolmaster four dollars."
                         "You are a mighty good fellow!" said Lincoln.
                              "But Pedro Lorimer is gone; so what troubles you
                              now?"
                         "He come back. He would steal the child to make me give up her
                              money as ransom. He would take her as far as New
                              Orleans."
                         "Does he know what she has?"
                         "No. But he would rob her of the last piece and leave her to
                              starve. He got much that belonged to her people."
                         "Have you put Peggy's money where he cannot find
                              it?"
                         "It is in a safe place."
                         "Has he ever made any attempt to carry her off?"
                         "Me not let him make attempt. Me watch."
                         "As a relative, he might prove that he had a right to the
                              guardianship if he were a fit person."
                         "What a white man want he can take from an
                              Indian!"
                         "No, Shickshack, you stand your ground and fight him. I he
                              troubles youagain in this community count on me for all the help I can
                              give. Every decent man in New Salem would take your
                              part."
                         Shickshack's face relaxed from anxious sternness to
                              satisfaction.
                         
                         
                              
                                   "SCHICHSHACK CRAWLED IN WITH HIS KNIFE
                                        UNSHEATHED"
                              
                         
                         
                         Such men as you and the young chief Yates and the chief Lorimer make an
                              Indian want to live with white men."
                         The tavern directly across the street had its windows open to let in the
                              soft spring night air. At intervals a chorus of bullfrogs came faintly
                              across the dark from where the Sangamon, swelling with freshets, rose
                              frothing yeastily toward its brim. As Peggy hopped on her crutch
                              around the tavern she could see a white fog floatng and changing over
                              Rock Creek in the valley, like fairy linen spread to bleach by
                              starlight. One of Rutledges' deer-hounds loped up from the
                              stable down the slope to bay at her, and recognizing the intruder,
                              drew back at once with a greyhound's sensitive apology.
                         Near the east side of the house stood a log hand-mill, one end being
                              firmly planted in the ground, the other hollowed by burning and
                              scraping. The pestle, hanging from a long pole weighted like a
                              well-sweep, was a knot of hard wood spaced with nails, and had a
                              crossbar handle. In this primitive mortar parched corn could be
                              readily pounded to meal. A deersin was stretched and fastened snugly
                              over the top to keep grains in when the mill was in use, and litter
                              out when it stood idle. Peggy caught hold of the sweep and lifted
                              herself to a seat on the hand-mill. She could see, through a deep
                              embrasure of logs, the Rutledge family at home. The tavern windows
                              were movable sashes, with the tough oiled paper like transparent skin
                              laid firmly upon them. Part of a tree smouldered crimson without flame
                              in the white  clay chimney.
                              Shickshack's wife never allowed more than one candle lighed
                              in his house. Mrs. Rutledge drew tallow tapers out of candle molds and
                              filled a six-branched candelabrum of old English silver. It stood on a
                              table surrounded by the children at their tasks, and the father,
                              reading a paper, brought in the weekly mail. The younger girls were
                              sewing; Ann sat at her flax wheel.
                         "The Rutledge girls can't say I'm tagging
                              anybody now, because I'm not tagging," breathed
                              Peggy. "But goody! I can watch them through the
                              window!"
                         The most desirable thing in the world was to be lovely. She looked at
                              Ann Rutledge, to whom hearts weregiven on sight. An ungraceful
                              movement seemed impossible to Ann. There was no angle in the lines of
                              her tall, supple body. Her deep blue eyes sometimes turned golden in
                              moments of happiness. Unconscious that any outsider watched her, she
                              lifted them and smiled at darkness through the open window. The passes
                              of her hands as she spun and the sweetness of life expresed in her
                              face brought a sob up Peggy's throat.
                         "I'll never be like her," whispered Peggy.
                              "I'm a peg-legged Spaniard, little for my age, and
                              ugly. I can't spin. I can't sew. Sally says squaw
                              clothes are good enough for me, and Shickshack has to cut them out,
                              and we piece them tgether as well as we can. He's done it
                              ever since we left his people and have had no Indian women to help us.
                              I can't read like Ann Rutledge does. If I could even knit I
                              could make stockings for Antywine and Shickshack. They are the only
                              men in New  Salem that have to keep on
                              wearing nips wrapped around their ankles for stockings."
                         She set her teeth together so the grating was audible. Something stirred
                              behind her, like one of the hounds creeping near, but she paid no
                              attention to it. A blanket dropped over her head.
                         Peggy fought it with both hands, hearing the crutch that had laid across
                              her knees roll to the ground. This was the last sound she heard.
                              Screaming and smothering in the muffling folds, she felt herself
                              dragged off the hand-mill and carried away.
                    
                    
                    
                         III
                         ANN RUTLEDGE heard through the open window Peggy's muffled cry
                              and struggle, and ran to the door. By starlight it was barely possible
                              to see a shadow fleeing from the hand-mill: but Antywine La Chance, in
                              pursuit of it, passed across the bar of light, a lithe, long-bodied
                              and long-limbed shape, his uncovered blond hair flying back from a
                              face cut like the high-bred features of a French noble. He bounded by
                              the hand-mill and crossed a fence at the foot of the garden.
                         When Antywine thought he was about to overtake the object down the
                              ravine, a scamper of horse's hoofs sounded through the
                              valley. Peggy's captor had left a horse ready for flight.
                              Instead of making southeastward for the Rock Creek bridge and the road
                              to Springfield, he rounded the bluff and the village, and was
                              evidently striking toward Beardstown. The western continuation of New
                              Salem street, stretching across the prairies until it met and curved
                              with bluffs along the Sangamon, was the route to Beardstown, which
                              stood at the junction of the Sangamon with the Illinois.
                         Light-footed as a deer, scarcely pausing to think, Antywine with
                              inherited instinct turned east toward the river, though it was the
                              direction opposite that in which Peggy
                              was carried. A boat could be found at the mill. The river was high and
                              running swiftly. By taking advantage of the unusual current he might
                              reach the bluff road as soon as a horse floundering across the mud of
                              the prairies would be able to reach it. What he would then do afoot he
                              did not attempt to foresee. There was a small settlement at the mouth
                              of Rock Creek called Wolf. Oxen were more plentiful than horses in
                              Wolf, as in New Salem; yet Antywine had one passing flash of
                              determination to go there and demand a horse. But breathless with
                              haste, he plunged through naked woods and down the terraced bank of
                              the Sangamon, sliding on dead leaves in his descent, straight to the
                              mill.
                         The boat was tied above the dam. He pushed out before he thought of the
                              dam, half covered by swelling water and roaring across the width of
                              the Sangamon. Antywine was never more alive than when his feet were
                              planted in a boat. He came of a line of voyageurs who had threaded
                              Canadian rapids time out of mind. Although his later years had been
                              spent in Belleville, off great stream courses, his inborn dexterity
                              was too much a part of him to be forgotten. There was no time for
                              thought. He swooped down the curve poised in the stern of his boat,
                              laughing aloud at the shock, which nearly swamped him. The boat ran
                              without direction, making for partly submerged trees while he bailed
                              with his hands. Antywine stuck out an oar for rudder, and turned his
                              craft into the racing current. So, baling with one hand and steering
                              with the other, he got under way,  and
                              was soon able to sit on the bench, fit the oars into rowlocks, and
                              pull with the racing force which spun him along. Branches and logs
                              menaced his dim course.
                         The shores were black. Froth spots like white money appeared and
                              disappeared around him with phosphoric swiftness. And underneath rose
                              and fell the bullfrogs' diapason.
                         Not many miles down was the fork of the Sangamon, where the stream
                              turned toward the Illinois. Beardstown, by prairie and river-bluff
                              route, was nearly forty miles from New Salem. Frost was out of the
                              ground, and a bottomless trail would delay the most hurried rider. The
                              scalloped bank, ascending and descending in serrated cliff and hollow,
                              seeming to swim past Antywine, finally curved away from a wider
                              current; and he made for shore through drift. He drew the boat out,
                              and left it beached above the rising water.
                         There was no sound abroad in all that void darkness exept the
                              Sangamon's low note and the intermittent cry of frogs. He
                              thought of sloughs on the Beardstown road, and of hungry wolves
                              infesting the night. Starlight had become lost in thickening mist, and
                              as Antywine pushed on he felt the sting of rain in his face. He tried
                              to distinguish a track which ought to darken the pallid turf near this
                              place, and set out in the direction of Beardstown.
                         He heard at his left the suction of horse feet in mud. It came nearer,
                              and he braced himself to spring at the bridle, if he had been so
                              fortunate as thus to intercept 
                              Peggy's captor. But two horses, insteadof one, plunged up
                              from a slough, and swept past him in a tearing race toward
                              Beardstown.
                         "Shickshack and Sieur Abe," thought Antywine. He
                              shouted after them, but they did not hear him. There was so little
                              travel at that season he felt sure these riders were in pursuit of
                              Peggy, and comforted, he followed lightly on, keeping to the spongy
                              dead grass by the roadside.
                         The humid forest stretching from the bank of the Sangamon still darkened
                              his way with skeleton trees. He passed an empty cabin which he had
                              seen once before when hunting deer. The rain now began to pelt.
                         Though he had lived so long among English-speaking people at Belleville
                              that their language had become in a measure his own, Antywine never
                              found himself able to part with buckskins. The hunting shirt was
                              sometimes exchanged for one of linsey, but bucksin breeches, molding
                              his supple limbs down to his moccasins, he always wore, making them
                              himself, as his father had done before him. Indifferent to weather, he
                              stepped on through darkness and was within hand's reach of an
                              unsteady object before he saw it.
                         Antywine gave a laughing shout to scare a wolf and followed it by an
                              exclamation. He lifted the toppling figure in his arms and ran back
                              with it to the empty cabin.
                         Peggy had a blanket around her, but she was wet and cold and seemed
                              partially stunned. The puncheons or 
                              split logs which floored the cabin sagged inward as if a sill had
                              rotted at the farther side, and the chimney was a ruin upon its own
                              hearth. Perhaps wolves or wild hogs made this place a lair. Antywine
                              had not his tinder box with him. It was impossible to get a light. The
                              fallen door he dragged aside from its opening and made a seat for
                              Peggy.
                         "Stray here, sweetheart," spoke Antywine, using an
                              English word which he did not quite understand, but translated in his
                              own mind as "little one."
                         He made the circuit of the walls, kicking his way in the dark,
                              satisfying himself that no beast housed with them. Then he sat down on
                              the door where he could shelter Peggy from the wind.
                         "Are you hurt, sweetheart?"
                         Peggy found her voice with a laugh. "Goodyl you've
                              come, Antywine! I was trying to walk without my crutch when you picked
                              me up. I had to hop."
                         "How you happen where I find you?"
                         "I don't know. The horse stumbled and fell down, and
                              maybe I was pitched on my head. This blanket was round me so tight
                              that I fought to get my mouth and nose and hands out. It seemed like
                              there were a dozen horses racing, and I thought they would all run
                              over me. But when I got up I was beside the road, and could just hear
                              the mud splashing away off."
                         "Who is it that steal you?"
                         "Of course,it must have been that Pedro Lorimer man, though I
                              couldn't see him, and only heard his voice when  he spoke to the horse. He threw a blanket over
                              me and made me ride on the horse's neck, and I'm so
                              little and lame I couldn't help myself. Are you cold,
                              Antywine?"
                         "No," he answered, with a Canadian's
                              indifference. But Peggy gave him a corner of the blanket and bade him
                              draw it around his shoulders, which he did.
                         The rain beat upon shingles and spouted from the cabin eaves. There was
                              snugness in being housed after so much anxiety and exertion.
                         "We wait here." The boy laughed quietly to himself.
                              "Shickshack say to Sieur Abe Lincoln, 'Antywine, he
                              is nothing but a squaw.' But I find you, and Shickshack have
                              not."
                         "Did he call you a squaw?"
                         " Me, yes; he call me that."
                         "You are like a woman, Antywine, ' said Peggy, after
                              considering. "I want you to be like a woman."
                         "Tonnerre! Why?"
                         Because you are like one." Antywine turned this illogical
                              reason in his mind.
                         "How can we go home, Antywine?"
                         "We wait," he replied, "until Shickshack and
                              Sieur Abe come back. They ride the horses you think will run over you,
                              and they not see you in the dark. They chase the man to
                              Beardstown."
                         "Are you sure?"
                         "I think so."
                         Peggy's mind at once turned back to New Salem.
                         "I wonder what Sally will do when we get home."
                         
                         "It is that woman that make a squaw of me," said
                              Antywine. 'Since my father marry her she has been worse than
                              a loup-garou. I not mind the fist or the stick--bah!--but her evil
                              eye, and the beard on her chin--saints! I am crawl all over! It is not
                              healt'y to be scare all the time! I wear a charm against her.
                              When she take Shickshack I think I will go to my father's
                              peop' in Canada. But if I do she will have nobody but you
                              when she is enrage. And see what is done to you when we are but out of
                              the house, sweetheart!"
                         Peggy busied herself in silence and threw an object from her which
                              bounded among the chimney ruins.
                         "I am not going to be a peg-leg any more," she
                              announced. "I'll not strap that wooden leg to my
                              knee again. "
                         "But you not able to walk," said Antywine. "I
                              carry you," he added, in afterthought.
                         "Shickshack will take me on the horse when he comes.
                              It's so ugly. Don't you think a peg-leg is ugly,
                              Antywine?"
                         "I have not consider," he responded; adding, with
                              French grace, "not anything that belong to you is
                              ugly."
                         "My mouth," suggested Peggy. " It will not
                              shut."
                         "It is like the wild plum," said Antywine,
                              "when the white bud is just break through."
                         Though they had been housemates almost a year, Peggy and Antywine felt
                              that they were just discovering each other. The tall, silent lad had
                              once in a while ven-  tured on some
                              kindness to the girl. There was between them the whimsical sympathy of
                              companions in misery.
                         "And am so little," continued Peggy, after a silence.
                              "People think I am only ten years old. Ann Rutledge is large
                              and beautiful."
                         " Mam'selle Ann Rutledge" responded Antywine,
                              "is too large to be carry. You are not too large to be
                              carry."
                         "But I want to be," insisted Peggy.
                         "Me, think you will grow," conceded Antywine,
                              indulgently.
                         "Do you think I will always be lame?"
                         "I not know. The doctor in Belleville cannot say."
                         "The doctor in Belleville put that peg-leg on my knee.
                              Sometimes I think if I try to use my leg, Antywine, it will grow
                              stronger. But I have to hop yet when Sally takes my crutch from
                              me."
                         "Shickshack think, and me, I think too, she have bring that
                              lameness on you."
                         "I never contradicted her when she told him it was a fall; but
                              she knows when she struck me and how it hurt. Don't tell him,
                              Antywine. Shickshak is so good."
                          "She not fool me," said Antywine. "I think
                              now I will give you my charm to keep off evil."
                         " What is it?"
                         He took her hand in the darkness and laid a small image on the palm. She
                              knew it was something which their religion taught them to
                              venerate.
                         "No, Antywine, I will not take it from you."
                         
                         "Keep it," he insisted. "I feel better when I
                              am out hunting if you have that around your neck. She bring evil into
                              the house. She is worse than the Chasse Galerie."
                         "What is the Chasse Galerie?"
                         " Have you never hear of the Chasse Galerie that fly across the
                              sky at night?"
                         "How could I hear about such things in the Sac village or at
                              Belleville?"
                         Antywine proceeded at once to tell the story of the wild huntsman and
                              his dogs, and their chase above the clouds. This led on to feux
                              follets, or balls of fire, into which bad spirits turned themselves to
                              lure sinners into quagmires. Then loop-garous, or man-wolves, made
                              darkness flame with their eyes, to Peggy's imagination.
                         "Are your feet or hands cold?" Antywine inquired once
                              in a while. Peggy answered "No," forgetting she had
                              hands and feet, her large, excited gaze fixed on the wonder-world of
                              folk-story. His voice abounded in sympathetic tones. It was full and
                              golden, reaching into distance or sinking to monotones as he half told
                              and half sung his people's legends.
                         So hour after hour passed; rain continued to pour down the shingles and
                              visit them in gusts of spray through the broken chimney.
                         It was a delicious experience to remember a lifetime. But as
                              Peggy's responses became few, Antywine stretched out his legs
                              and made a pillow of his lap with a corner of the blanket, to which her drowsy head came readily down. He
                              watched and she slept until darkness faded to the pallor of dawn.
                         The noise of horses' feet in the heavy road, for which he had
                              waited so long, could at last be heard approaching. He withdrew
                              carefully from the head of the sleeper, and went out to intercept the
                              riders.
                         They were splashed with mud and jaded, moving side by side, their tired
                              horses snorting flakes of foam. Thus more than once the men of New
                              Salem had come back from chasing horse-thieves, less ready, perhaps,
                              to give the details of the exploit than were Shickshack and his
                              companion. Both drew rein when they sawAntywine, and he told them
                              directly where Peggy was.
                         Shickshack asked where he found her. He pointed to the road beyond the
                              cabin, and in his brief Canadian-English repeated what had
                              happened.
                         "Your squaw boy doesn't put up many fizzlegigs and
                              fireworks, but he seems to be worth two men," observed
                              Lincoln.
                         His lank hair dripped moisture. He was haggard with hard riding.
                         "You catch the man?" inquired Antywine.
                         "No," Shickshack answered in disgust.
                         "You know him?"
                         " No. Me not care now."
                         " He winked out," said Lincoln. " We lost him
                              this side of Beardstown. The closest view we had was when we nearly
                              ran him down back here. We intended to 
                              raise a party and hunt. I reckon you better bring the little girl now,
                              so we can get home to breakfast."
                         Shickshack's red face revealed itself through growing daylight
                              polished like copper. He gave a strong grunt of satisfaction when
                              Antywine set Peggy behind him on the horse. The Canadian boy mounted
                              lightly to a seat behind Lincoln, and as they rode toward New Salem a
                              clear whiteness like the promise of fair weather appeared in the east.
                              Water hung beaded on the stems of trees, but a great commotion of
                              robins came out of the woods. It was the general opinion in the
                              village that Don Pedro Lorimer had "done it." Why he
                              should put himself to the inconvenience of trying to carry off such a
                              poor little thing many declared they could not understand. All day
                              Lincoln was visited at the store by inquiring friends, who sat on
                              counters and salt barrels and interrogated him about his
                              night's ride. He joked, as any man among them would have
                              done, about the hard service taken out of borrowed horses, instead of
                              dwelling on the Indian's affairs and the labors of the night.
                              Lincoln had the strength of three ordinary men.
                         "I allow," said one of the Carolina settlers,
                              "that it was an ornary trick of one of them Grove
                              boys."
                         "I guess you are wrong there," put in a Massachusetts
                              man. "The Grove boys know better than to pick the runt out of
                              litter. If one of them wanted tosteal a girl he wouldn't go
                              so nigh the tavern and stop on the outside."
                         The outrage was resented as a municipal indignity,  whoever had attempted it; but it stirred less
                              resentment than it would have stirred had any other young maid in New
                              Salem been the sufferer. It was talked about a fortnight with zest and
                              much repetition. By the end of a month it was still good material,
                              when women took their knitting and visited one another of afternoons.
                              But by muster day other slow happenings had covered it.
                         If Sally knew more about it than any one else, she kept the secret. The
                              Sac brave often fixed his eyes on her with speculation in them.
                         "In my tribe," he said once to Lincoln, "a
                              warrior can take a tent-pole and beat his squaw, or he can give her
                              plenty goods and drive her out of his wigwam. But me marry white
                              woman; me have to stand her like white man."
                         He was at first concerned, and questioned Peggy about the loss of her
                              wooden leg.
                         " I will not wear it," she repeated, stubbornly.
                              "It hurt, and I threw it away."
                         She hopped about the street on her crutch, which Ann Rutledge had found
                              by the hand-mill the night the alarm was given, her injured leg
                              hanging straight beneath the deerskin garment. Some change in her was
                              noticed, even by her schoolmates.
                         "Who cut Peggy Shickshack's hair, Viane Rut-
                              ledge?" inquired Nany Green, when the girls sat outdoors with
                              their dinner reticules the first warm day. The budding woods were then
                              alive with bees.
                         "Ann," responded Ann's younger sister, with
                              asperity.  "We have her tagging
                              to our house all the time, now. I allow the Indians might as well move
                              in with us."
                         "Shickshack's wife doesn't visit the
                              neighbors, does she?"
                         "No. She stays at home and heats water to scald the boys
                              with."
                         " Peggy looks nicer with her hair cut straight around below her
                              ears and combed smooth. And I am glad she lost her wooden leg when
                              Satan or something tried to carry her off."
                         "My brother Red," exclaimed Martha Bell Clar,
                              "told me the horse blanket that was throwed over Peggy
                              Shickshack that night smelt of brimstone!"
                         "Your brother Red," retorted Nancy Green with
                              impatience, "gets threatened with brimstone so much in
                              meeting that he smells it on everything!"
                         "Well, how do you suppose the boat Antywine La Chance went down
                              the river in, got back to the mill by morning, when he rode home on
                              horseback?"
                         "Antywine brought it back himself. Part of the way he pulled
                              the boat, and part of the way he rode horseback. You get such stories
                              in the Grove!" said Mahala Cameron.
                         Martha Bell wagged her head and looked at Peggy, sitting apart, eating
                              corn bread in solitude. She was glad to be Martha Bell Clary instead
                              of Peggy Shickshack. None of the girls meant to be cruel. They wished
                              Peggy well, but made her understand she was not as other daughters of
                              New Salem.
                         
                         "We all thought she was queer before we found out she was a
                              Spaniard," said Martha Bell.
                         "You'd be queer, too," exclaimed Nancy Green,
                              "if you'd been born a Spaniard and raised among the
                              Sacs, and dressed always like a squaw."
                         "But I wasn't."
                         "Peggy can talk the Sac language just like
                              Shickshack;" remarked Mahala. "Le's get her
                              do it for us."
                         Shickshack won't let her," objected Ann
                              Rutledge's sister. " He wants her to learn English.
                              He says she learned to speak English in a year."
                         "Humph!" commented another of the group, resentfully;
                              "the master shows partiality to Peggy Shickshack, so he does;
                              but I wouldn't be her, if she is the best reader in
                              school."
                         This first really warm noon of the budding year, while Peggy's
                              schoolmates were looking at and talking about her, Antywine stood at
                              the open tavern door waiting to speak to Ann Rutledge. Too bashful
                              to'knock, he shifted from one moccasin to the other, hoping
                              that some kind saint would send Ann to the door to inquire what he
                              wanted. He had a parcel in his left hand, and sometimes held it before
                              him and sometimes hid it behind his back, keeping his right hand ready
                              to uncap himself if she appeared. There was not anything in the woods
                              or on the prairie which Antywine feared. But Ann Rut- ledge
                              represented to his mind the power of society; and he was coming to sue
                              that power. She entered, singing, from an inner room, and paused,
                              throwing her long braids  behind her back
                              when she saw the Canadian at the door.
                         He snatched off his cap, standing erect, narrow of hips and shoulder and
                              full in chest, an elegant lightness of make and grace of carriage
                              setting him apart from English-Americans, and fixed his wistful blue
                              eyes upon her.
                         "Come in, Antywine La Chance."
                         "No, mam'selle. I will stand here."
                         "Did you want to see any one?"
                         "I want to see you."
                         "Here I am." The girl dimpled at his
                              embarrassment.
                         "Mam'selle, I have to ask of you a favor. Will you do
                              me the kindness to look at what I bring in my hand?"
                    
                    
                    
                         IV
                         FROM the back yard of moe than one New Salem Home, where soap-making and
                              gardening were going forward, azure smoke rose over pink coals of wood
                              and old vines. The whole world was getting ready to be new.
                              Ann's own winter linsey was laid aside. She wor something
                              which made her look like a blossom to the eyes of the boy.
                         Antywine gave her the parcel and stood abashed while it was unrolled,
                              revealing yards of dark red and yellow calico, the colors alternating
                              in tiny flecks which, globed themselves to pomegranates. Ann had
                              noticed it in the store as a most daring attempt in cotton printing.
                              Some balls of thread fell out and Antywine picked them up.
                         "It's for Peggy, isn't it?"
                         "Yes, mam'selle."
                         "Did you buy it yourself, Antywine?"
                         "I have some money that I make in Belleville," he
                              apologized. "Shickshack and the woman have not got some
                              tas'e in clothes for young girls. You, mam'selle,
                              have that tas'e."
                         "If you think I really have, Antywine, you must let me help
                              Peggy make this dress."
                         "Oh, mam'selle! It is what I would ask, but dare
                              not!"
                         
                         "I would love to do it, and Peggy will be so glad to have a new
                              dress."
                         Peggy was glad when Ann waylaid her in the evening. Her face quivered
                              and she said, "Goody!" She talked the great event
                              quite out with Antywine, standing beside their cabin, because they
                              seldom spoke to each other in the presence of Shickshack's
                              wife. Then there was the joy of going to the tavern and learning neat
                              stitches while Ann cut and basted and fitted. The slow process of hand
                              sewing went on a part of every day, as the two girls had time, until
                              Peggy, by the accident of Antywine's choice, stood at last
                              unconsciously arrayed in the colors of Spain. The garment was gathered
                              to her slim figure under the bust, whence escaping fullness hung as
                              low as her ankles. This short-waisted look, and the gorgeous setting
                              of colors for her pale olive skin, and her hair cut in the fashion of
                              the Middle Ages, suddenly developed in her charm. People noticed her,
                              and said that she was not exactly growing pretty, but there was
                              something to her. The confidence of knowing how to do things appeared
                              in her face. For, having begun with the needle, Ann Rutledge went on
                              to knitting and spinning.
                         Ann had pretty clothes, for her father never rode to Springfild without
                              bringing her a gift, and her mother even indulged her with a cassimere
                              pelisse modeled after one worn by the doctor's wife, who came
                              a bride to New Salem. Viane saw with some resentment her elder sister
                              take things which had usually fallen to her and cut them over for the
                              Indian's adopted daughter. Thus Peggy became transformed in every garment except her
                              moccasins. To these heelless, quill-embroidered shoes she clung with
                              the instinct of a wilderness lover. They were light and soft and
                              small, hampering her no more than her own muscles. Antywine made them
                              for her when he made his own. In return she knitted woolen stockings
                              to keep him and her foster father warm in winter.
                         When Peggy first learned to knit she pulled the yarn so tight that the
                              stocking leg stood above the needles as stiffas a board triangle and
                              had to be raveled and done over.
                         "You're not building stake-and-ridered fences for your
                              men folks;" laughed Ann.
                         Shickshack's wife gave Peggy many tasks to do, but in a house
                              where there was no home-making, strewn with the appointments of a
                              dirty camp, the tasks were sordid and often useless. Sally let pots
                              and kettles litter the hearth, and her cob pipe dropped ashes into a
                              dinner hanging on the crane; the joists were grimy, and dust stood
                              thick on the pewter she got with her first husband and was too stingy
                              to use.
                         But her splint-bottomed chairs had to be scoured with soap and sand
                              every week, and she made the lame girl, in deerskin dress, creep inch
                              by inch over the puncheon floor, cleaning it by the same hard process.
                              When the weather was bad Peggy's tasks were doubled, and her
                              struggle with marks of New Salem clay became hopeless.
                         Shickshack's wife never seemed to look up; plodding along the
                              street her sullen eyes fixed on the ground, she exchanged no word with
                              a neighbor. Shickshack's dis- 
                              gust was extreme with sordid housekeeping he had nowhere encountered
                              in an Indian village.
                         The changes in Peggy Shickshack were not without influence on her
                              schoolmates, but the Spaniard, with pride of her own, held aloof from
                              them. They swung their feet from tall benches and whispered behind
                              their books while Peggy fiercely studied. When the Testament class
                              stood up she was at the head. Her progress through the simple course
                              was so rapid that Minter Grayham calclated she would know in a year
                              all thath was able to teach her.
                         Antywine, whose stepmother had never sent him to school, was nineteen
                              years old, and could not read. Peggy began to teach him during the
                              long spring twilights. There was large stone halfway across the
                              valley, sheltered as the sun slipped north of afternoons, under which
                              Peggy hid her outgrown lesson book for Antywine. Whatever direction
                              his day's hunt led him, he made a detour to arrive at the
                              stone, and if he arrived first, sat down to study. If Peggy, carrying
                              her dinner reticule home from school, reached it first, she
                              waited.
                         They sat and held the book together. English spelling provoked Canadian
                              exclamations; but he had to spur him not only Peggy, but the powerful
                              example of Sieur Abe Lincoln, studying every spare minute.
                         Antywine knew where the best swimming places were in the Sangamon.
                              Sometimes he came to his lesson, his blond hair separating into dark
                              clinging tendrils, which, as they dried, became a powder of gold-shot
                              curls around  his face and temples. If
                              Peggy could not keep her fingers from touching this fleece, Antyine
                              pretended he did not know it. His hands and shoulders worked as hard
                              as his mind. With shrugs and gesticulating fingers he flung English
                              spelling all around. When he encountered a terrific word he would
                              throw down the book and jump on it. But Antywine's moccasins
                              were light; he did not damage the learning under his feet. His rages
                              were all rages of laughter. Whatever he did delighted Peggy that she
                              said:
                         "It makes me almost laugh out in school to think how you dance
                              on your speller!"
                         As month followed month and Pedro Lorimer neither showed himself again
                              in New Salem nor made any other attempt to kidnap the
                              Indian's adopted daughter, her guardian's anxiety
                              relaxed to ease. He thought: "These white men in this village
                              are my friends; they will take my part. The young chief Abe is as
                              strong as three Pedro Lorimers, and his hand is with me."
                         Every Sunday Mahala Cameron's father preached in the
                              schoolhouse, and nearly all the people, whether they accepted the
                              Cumberland Presbyterian creed or not, went to the service. Wild-plum
                              groves made bouquets of snow on the prairies. The woods were full of
                              flowers, having such fragrnce as breaks only from old loam. All the
                              trees, from the rich green of the pecan to the delicate and slowly
                              deepening maple gave out their foliage to the sun. The Judas tree
                              burst out like flame in the forest.
                         Happy boys were seen coming home from the river of evenings with strings of croppies, bass and
                              pike. Half- yearly muster day came, when the local militia stepped out
                              in awkward squads and practiced such military tactics as the leader
                              knew to the squeak of a fife and the thump of a drum. Antywine put
                              himself among the boys. He liked life and movement. But Shickshack
                              stood and looked gloomily on. He knew that his own people, the Sacs,
                              were being crowded in their reservation, and this play of war might
                              sometime become reality. Whisky was plentiful on muster days. Antywine
                              noticed that Lincoln did not touch it. Having considered the height
                              and strength of Sieur Abe, he also spat out of his mouth a taste of
                              fiery stuff pushed between his lips by a Grove boy, and decided that
                              he would fight rather than be forced to drink.
                         Slicky Green and Ann Rutledge's brother were home, working in
                              their fathers' fields. Young Yates was seen at intervals
                              during the summer. The boys and girls of New Salem found a world of
                              material for their own happiness. There were quiltings, where the
                              older women labored in the afternoon and young men and women came to
                              evening games.
                         Peggy Shickshack stood outside of such festivities, and so did Antywine,
                              because the singular mother of their household had no fellowship with
                              the mother of any other household. For all the villagers began to look
                              kindly at the unfolding womanliness of the lame Spaniard, the blond
                              head of Antywine, and the good old Indian who loved white men.
                         
                         But the festival that Peggy liked best and was not left out of, was
                              blackberrying. The girls rose at dawn and put on their worst clothes,
                              meeting by appointment at the tavern with baskets on their arms. They
                              did not speak loud. The dust in the road took the prints of their feet
                              like ashes. The whole sweet-smelling world was drenched in dew, and as
                              they brushed down the ravine and across to the woods beyond, they were
                              baptized by every bush. Then their tongues were loosened, and they
                              sang and told stories. Sometimes they pretended to see wolves sneaking
                              to cover, but this was merely for the pleasure of frightening
                              themselves. It was the loveliest pilgrimage ever invented. There was
                              peril in it, too, for in the wooded field of wild brambles the
                              thick-mottled ratlesnake, or objects resembling him, caused many a
                              start and shriek.
                         Once little Jane Rutledge got a fat grasshopper down her back, and
                              yelled for deliverance from-" a snakel a snake!"
                         "Oh, run home, Jane! Run home, quick!" cried Mahala
                              Cameron.
                         But Ann tore the child's clothing open and freed the
                              grasshopper, clinging with all his feet to the tender white back; and
                              they all laughed at Mahaa, who would have sent her three miles for
                              help.
                         Sometimes the girls swam grass to their waists, as in a sea of dew,
                              Peggy dividing her way with her crutch. The rising sun showed
                              glittering in the brambles, blackberries and luscious dewberries half
                              as long as one's  thumb, melting
                              ripe to keep that very morning's appointment. To go
                              blackberrying late in the day was not to go blackberrying at all, but
                              to a hot and weary search of rifled fields.
                         When the party trailed homeward with heaped baskets they could see along
                              the ridge of the Sangamon tents and camps of farmers who had come long
                              distances to mill. Each man was obliged to wait his turn to have his
                              grain ground. It was like a fair. Quoit pitching, wrestling matches,
                              races, and trading filled up the idle time.
                         Insensibly the season changed. Sumac leaves began to burn around scarlet
                              fruit veiled in white, the oaks were faintly tinted, and the first
                              September days had come.
                         Antywine's reading lessons at the stone ended, for Lincoln was
                              taking up surveying and going out to distant parts of the county, and
                              Antywine was to go with him as his chain-bearer.
                         "I put the book in my bundle," said the Canadian while
                              he and Peggy were bidding each other farewell at the stone. '
                              Sieur Abe will help me."
                         Peggy's hands and feet became cold. She felt as if autumn were
                              driving the blood back upon her heart.
                         "Viane Rutledge told at school the other day that you are the
                              best-looking young man in New Salem."
                         Antywine expanded with satisfaction. He always carried his chin up, so
                              that people called him high-headed.
                         
                         "Iam tall.'
                         "Don't you think Viane Rutledge is a pretty girl,
                              Antywine?"
                         "Yes."
                         "She's the prettiest girl that goes to school,
                              isn't she?"
                         "Yes."
                         Tears sprang into Peggy's eyes; she winked them back, ashamed
                              of being grieved.
                         " But Viane Rutledge is not a good reader," she
                              honestly declared.
                         "Me, I am not a good reader, either," observed
                              Antywine.
                         "You don't want to put yourself alongside of Viane
                              Rutledge as a poor reader," spoke Peggy,
                              sharply--"do you?"
                         "I don't know," returned Antywine, with a
                              teasing winsomeness specially his own. He smiled on the landscape and
                              lifted his chin higher, a look of concern replacing the smile.
                         "Why you cry, sweetheart?'
                         "My foot's tired," said Peggy, drying her
                              tears.
                         "You been trying to walk without the crutch?
                         "A little."
                         "Then I carry you up to the house."
                         "I don't want you to. If Mahala Cameron's
                              brother was here he could help you make a saddle and carry me. He
                              takes hold of hands with one of the Clary boys, and they lift me up on
                              the saddle and run with me when we play Indian."
                         
                         "He have no business!" exclaimed Antywine, full of
                              indignation. "They will fall and hurt you!"
                         "O, no, they won't. He is a nice boy, and has such red
                              cheeks."
                         "Me, if I have those red cheeks I strip the skin off my
                              face!" said Antywine, disgusted. "You like those red
                              cheeks, eh?"
                         "Well, I think they are about as pretty as Viane
                              Rutledge."
                         "Viane Rutledge," spoke Antywine, sincerely,
                              "she not have that charm like you, and those
                              manners."
                         " Do you think I am learning manners?"
                         "You have improve every day."
                         "Antywine, I've got the best apple in my pocket I
                              Don't you want a bite of it?"
                         "Did those Cameron boy give you that apple?"
                         " No."
                         "You have it, then, from that Grove feller, who is behave so
                              bad the master whip him?"
                         "No. Mahala gave it to me."
                         "Then I will take some bite."
                         Peggy drew forth the apple and they ate it together, feeling that their
                              differences were reconciled. It was their parting meal, for food eaten
                              at Sally's board had no such taste as this.
                         Shickshack said nothing about Antywine's first serious
                              undertaking of civilized work. The boy until that time had been
                              nothing but a hunter. Perhaps the Indian pondered on the white
                              man's influence. He set himself 
                              to bring in plenty of venison to dry for winter, and an abundance of
                              buckskin to tan. His cabin was as good as any in New Salem.
                         Shickshack held land in his reservation, as all his tribe held it,
                              without cultivating or improving an acre except patches of maize and
                              pumpkins. He could not understand the white man's greed of
                              real estate when the prairies were so free to all. The product of his
                              labor consisted of peltries. These he exchanged for the necessaries of
                              simple living.
                         Shickshack was not unmindful of the change in his adopted chid. He used
                              to watch her silently. When she brought him the first pair of
                              stockings made by her hand he sat and smoothed them across his
                              buckskin knee. They were useless to him as a covering, for he could
                              not enjoy the freedom of his ankles in anything but hunter's
                              neips.
                         Before the weather grew cold he gave Peggy a roll of heavy dark red
                              Linsey cloth instead of the usual tanned deerskins. Ann Rutledge
                              helped her cut and make the dress. He had the satisfaction of seeing
                              her warmly clad, in short-waisted gown with bag sleeves and a thick
                              cape and hood lined with dull yellow flannel which Ann had saved among
                              her stores.
                         As autumn days drew close to the margin of winter, the big boys,
                              relieved of labor that they owed to their parents every working season
                              until they were twenty-one years old, came to Minter
                              Grayham's school. Though willing to make themselves useful
                              carrying in logs for the  fireplace, they
                              were full of frolic as colts. They stirred up the school until Minter
                              Grayham in despair made a new law and announced that he would listen
                              to no more complaints of wad-throwing, fisticuffing and fighting,
                              unless the complainant could show that blood had been drawn. Then the
                              boys were gloriously happy. The sallow young schoolmaster, writing
                              copies at his high desk, would suddenly hear through the drone of
                              study:
                         " Master, Viane Rutledge looked at me and drew
                              blood!"
                         "Master, Nancy Green's eyes are drawing blood on me
                              this minute!"
                         In November there was a haze over the landscape like bloom on grapes.
                              Indian summer lingered. Settlers had not then learned the Mississippi
                              Valley's sudden and bitter changes of climate.
                         Lincoln and Antywine were still absent early in December, when
                              Shicksback waited one evening behind Minter Grayham's
                              schoolhouse for Peggy to come out. A jet of boys and girls seemed to
                              spout forth, racing down to Rock Creek. They could almost smell their
                              supper johnnycakes across the ravine. Peggy was hopping briskly in the
                              joyful midst of her schoolmates, when she saw her foster father
                              beckoning her at the foot of the bluff. She followed him.
                         Shickshack led her where there was no path through ascending woods,
                              parting naked bushes for her, and helping her over fallen logs which
                              had become almost a powder of flakes covered with moss.
                         
                         " Where are we going?" she inquired more than
                              once.
                         But Shickshack made no reply until he had put a loop of deerskin around
                              him over his blanket, and lifted Peggy on his back in this portable
                              hammock. She was learning to use her lame leg with a stoical
                              determination which the New Salem doctor encouraged. Though never
                              without her crutch, she oftener carried than leaned on it. Shickshack
                              was evidently undertaking a journey, and she looked aniously through
                              the woods as some flakes of snow melted on her face, and up at the
                              void peopled as by winged white insects.
                         "Father," said Peggy in the Sac language,
                              "where are you taking me?"
                         " To the young chief Yates," he answered in English,
                              trudging across the ridge, sure-footed and muscular.
                         "But he lives far away, and I won't go! What will
                              Antywine and Mr. Lincoln say when they come home?"
                         "Antywine and the chief Abe on the survey trail. They not here
                              to stop Pedro Lorimer. He get you this time."
                         "Has he come back again?"
                         Shickshack grunted. "At the Grove-two, four days. He tell the
                              young braves Black Hawk is on the war path. Drive out old Indian! Burn
                              his wigwam! Old Indian help Black Hawk. Me not need totem signs to
                              find out what he want. He say old Indian have no business to keep
                              white girt."
                         "But, father, you cannot carry me so far!" Peggy
                              strongly revolted. She wept, shivering against his back.  He descended toward a darkened plain without
                              heeding her arguments against his course, except to assure her he
                              intended to hire a horse at the first cabin.
                         The sloughs were frozen, and frost-blackened grass crisped under his
                              feet. Nowhere could any farmhouse light be seen, and the gentle
                              flicker-like insect wings had become a driving storm of snow.
                              Shickshack found the road stretching southwest toward Jacksonville,
                              and plodded steadily along. Jogging through an immensity of night and
                              cold and drifting whiteness, Peggy ceased to beg that he would let her
                              walk, and lapsed into such drowsiness that he was obliged to shake her
                              when he set her down. By that time the chill windrows were nearly to
                              his knees. Unsheltered by his body, she felt the dry spume spinning in
                              her face.
                         "Me have to put you in the log to-night;' said
                              Shickshack. "Snow too bad to go farther."
                         Every New Salemite had heard of or seen the huge hollow log strangely
                              left upon the prairie beside that road. Once Slicky Green and another
                              boy, belated on a bitter night while searching for lost cattle, had
                              driven wild hogs out of it, and saved their own lives in its roomy
                              hollow. It loomed a white ridge, higher than Peggy's head,
                              its black opening already banked with drift. Shickshack crawled in
                              with his knife unsheathed. A yelping, snarling struggle was muffed by
                              the log, until something dark leaped past Peggy, and ran across the
                              snow.
                         "Wolf," observed the Sac. "Him not like to
                              leave him good bed."
                         
                         Reluctantly, in spite of the cold, Peggy crawled past him into the deep
                              shelter, dragging her crutch. Her hand touched something furry, and
                              green eyes shot flame at her. Shickshack haled a cub from its cushion
                              of rotten wood and threw it out after its mother.
                         Peggy was so drowsy that, she remembered nothing further of the night,
                              except some noises at the open end of the log.
                         When she awoke it was light enough to see overhead the ridged vault of
                              her wooden cavern. The snow cast in a pallid illumination. She sat up
                              and called Shickshack. He remained in rigid attitude, with his back to
                              her, and his legs extending out under a white lapful. His arm was hard
                              as marble in her hand when she touched him, and he did not turn his
                              head.
                         "Father!" she screamed.
                              "Father!"
                    
                    
                    
                         V
                         THE old Sac, who had guarded her rooftree, whether cabin or wigwam,
                              every night of her remembrance, sat uprights, holding his knife, on
                              which frozen blood was crystallized. Two or three dead wolves lay
                              outside the log on the snow. But not one of them was frozen stiffer
                              than the Indian, who, after his own fashion, had given life itself for
                              the safety of his adopted child.
                         Peggy would not believe he was dead. She clung to his solid shoulders,
                              and screamed to rouse him. The Sac, who loved white men, and had never
                              failed to answer the appeal of his white child, silently blocked the
                              entrance of the log. His eyebrows were hoar frost, and the dark
                              ruddiness of his face and neck seemed crusted with rough silver.
                         Peggy's wild crying might have resounded long in the hollow
                              log, and brought no person to help her. For all around was the vast
                              prairie stretching from horizon to horizon, a glare of whiteness
                              unpierced by the smoke of a single fire. But two figures toiled toward
                              New Salem through the early cold, wading with effort, and finally
                              making for the hummock in which they recognized the submerged log.
                              Lincln and his chain-bearer encountered 
                              the frozen Indian and the crying girl as they stooped to enter and
                              warm themselves.
                         High as drifts were piled in New Salem streets for this was the winter
                              known long afterward as "the winter of the deep
                              snow," people gathered hastily through the unabated storm
                              when word went around that Shickshack had been brought in frozen to
                              death. Lincoln and Antywine, in silent agreement, stopped the ox sled
                              they had borrowed, at the door of Rutledge's tavern. Neither
                              said, "Let us take him to his own cabin." In death,
                              at least, he should escape from the environment which Sally made, and
                              be publicly honored.
                         Antywine went directly to carry the news to the widow, and Sally heard
                              it, making a clicking sound of disapproval with her tongue.
                         She knocked the ashes out of her cob pipe, partly on the hearth and
                              partly in the dinner pot, which hung from the crane.
                         "Now don't that beat ye! Gone and froze hisself to
                              death the first big snow, and New Salem seven miles from a
                              buryin' ground ! He always was the most ill-convenient old
                              In'jan! Took him to the tavern, did ye?"
                         "Yes," replied Antywine, without apology.
                         "Well, keep him there. I'll come to the funeral.
                              Funerals is no novelty to me, buryin' men as often as I
                              have."
                         Neighbors talked in whispers around the dignified figure stretched on a
                              white-covered board under an oblong canopy of sheets. But Antywine and
                              Lincoln had them-  selves washed it, and
                              dressed it in the Sac's best buckskins. They found girded
                              around the waist heavy belt of rattlesnake skin.
                         "This is the snakeskin of money belonging to Peggy that he told
                              me about," Lincoln said to Antywine. "He must have
                              taken it out of its hiding-place before he started to find Dick Yates.
                              What shall we do with it?"
                         "Put it on, Sieur Abe, to wear for her, as Shickshack
                              did."
                         "They say snakeskin in the hat is good for the headache; but I
                              don't think I could bear it rubbing against my naked hide.
                              This belt is nearer your size, Antywine."
                         "Me, I am a boy, Sieur Abe. Shickshack put his trust in you. He
                              tell you I am a squaw!"
                         "I reckon he changed his opinion. He only struck out to find
                              Dick because we were away. But you're a little nearer than
                              nearest of kin to Peggy, so if you say I'm to undertake the
                              thing, I'll try it. And if Mother Eve is too strong in me to
                              stand the snake next to me I'll manage it some other
                              way."
                         Lincoln and Antywine also helped the cooper make Shickshack's
                              coffin, for neighbor was then obliged to depend upon neighbor for such
                              a service. No fee was ever charged, though if, one was offered it had
                              to be accepted.
                         Religion did little to soften the grimness of death in those early days.
                              The unpainted coffin stood on two chairs in the largest room of the
                              tavern, and Mahala Cameron's father, hymn book in hand,
                              placed himself  behind it as behind an
                              intrenchment, whence he could launch warnings on the uncertainty of
                              life. His father, called old Daddy Cameron, a tremulous and toothless
                              creature, who encountered age as a disease rather than a transition,
                              sat by, sighing, as if to illustrate the unpleasantness of
                              life's certainty.
                         Such funeral rites as New Salem afforded were held in the early
                              forenoon, because snow continued to fall, and seven miles of drift had
                              to be cut through to Concord burying ground. The entire population, as
                              well as men from Clary's Grove, crowded the tavern. People
                              stared when Don Pedro Lorimer came in with Redmond Clary, richly and
                              warmly dressed, as if he had not found it unprofitable to plead the
                              annexation of Cuba. His shining black hair and olive face had a
                              placid, worldly look. One hard-working woman whispered to another that
                              you would not think butter could melt in his mouth, and he appeared
                              the last man to rob an orphan or to run her off with him against her
                              will.
                         Peggy saw him through her tears with indignation. She sat beside
                              Antywine on one of three chairs which Ann Rutledge placed at the head
                              of the coffin for Shickshack's family. But the third chair
                              remained vacant until the preacher stood in embarrassment, undecided
                              whether or not to raise a hymn while all the mourners gathered.
                         Shickshack's widow finally entered the tavern muffled from the
                              snow in a blanket, carrying a basket on her arm. The crowded assembly
                              opened to let her pass. She set her 
                              basket down, and with a vicious pounce took Antywine and Peggy both by
                              the ear. Antywine visibly restained himself and walked unresisting
                              with Peggy to the foot of the coffin. Sally shoved their chairs after
                              them, and returned to her own place as chief mourner.
                         "This isn't your funeral!" the bereaved woman
                              explained sourly to them. "He wasn't no kin to
                              either of ye!"
                         Solemn-featured neighbors relaxed in countenance and looked sidelong at
                              one another. They watched Sally lay off the blanket and take from her
                              basket a rusty mourning shawl, a black bonnet, and crape veil. In this
                              regalia, kept for her husbands' funerals, she dressed herself
                              publicly, and, having completed her preparations, sat down, heaving a
                              deep sigh. The sight of her beard under widow's weeds so
                              affected one of the Grove boys that he disgraced himself by an audible
                              snort. He did not mind disturbing meeting, but a funeral was
                              different; and he whispered apologetically to the man beside him:
                              "I bet God laughed when He made that woman!"
                         Candles were lighted in the tavern before the masculine population of
                              New Salem-for only those went who could shovel snow and help dig a
                              grave-returned from burying Shickshack. A river of icy air flowing out
                              of the northwest had by that time cleared the storm away. Peggy and
                              Antywine were to spend the second night of their peculiar orphanage at
                              the Rutledges', in order to settle the business of
                              Peggy's own inheritance, which Shickshack had silently passed
                              on to his successors.
                         
                         They sat down with Lincoln and Ann Rutledge in the best room, and he put
                              the rattlesnake skin before them on a table. Peggy looked at it
                              curiously, having never before seen her fortune, or the case which
                              held it. The spots described by scales made her shudder. Ann also saw
                              it with aversion, and wondered why Shickshack preferred that to a
                              strong piece of buckskin.
                         "A rattlesnake," said Lincoln, "when you get
                              over the first shock of introducton to him, is a mighty pretty fellow.
                              See his combine ofcoors! He has lost his first freshness and his
                              rattles, trying to bruise the tough hide of mankind. But I doubt if he
                              ever stung anybody; he wouldn't unless he was
                              crowded."
                         Through an open door the tavern kitchen displayed a roaring hearth,
                              where the Dutch oven, with coals on its head and beneath its feet,
                              held a joint of venison. A coffee pot, standing on a trivet over
                              embers, sent perfume abroad. Johnnycakes of parched corn ground in the
                              hand-mill were browning on boards slanted toward the
                              fire-"the best bread that ever was e't!"
                              testifies a surviving New Salemite. Hominy hissing in pork fat sent
                              its song through the room, while the younger Rutledge girls helped
                              their mother bring to the table cold turkey, cream and butter, fruits
                              preserved in maple syrup, and honey found in the wild-bee tree.
                         Plenty of food, an abundance of candle-light, and the heartening warmth
                              of the Franklin stove near her, may have suggested visions to Peggy as
                              she inquired of her friends. "What must I do with this
                              money?"
                         
                         "Sieur Abe has kept it safe," suggested Antywine.
                         "There is no one trustier!" spoke Ann.
                         Will you keep it for me, Mr. Lincoln?"
                         " I am not a good money-getter," he laughed,
                              "and I doubt if I am a good money-keeper. The only thing I
                              could do would be to carry it around for you and guarantee it
                              shouldn't fall into worse hands."
                         "The sweetheart knows you are the strongest man in New
                              Salem," said Antywine, resting his cheek upon his hand and
                              lifting eyes of confidence to his elder.
                         "But I haven't measured with Clary's Grove
                              yet."
                         "Antywine and I both know," said Peggy, "how
                              everybody looks up to you. We could not keep it ourselves as well as
                              you could do it for us, Mr. Lincoln."
                         Ann stretched out one slim, long-fingered hand to caress
                              Peggy's cheek.
                         "Well, children, I'm of age, and Ann is eighteen. I
                              reckon we'll have to father and mother you. Do you know how
                              much money you have in this bank of Shickshack's,
                              Peggy?"
                         "I don't"
                         "Do you know, Antywine?"
                         "Me? No. I have never inquire', and Shickshack have
                              not sho' me."
                         "If the trust is to be put into my hands I must know the
                              amount."
                         Lincoln untied the leather cord which bound the snake's neck,
                              and shook it by the tail. Out gushed all the yellow pieces with the
                              ring of gold upon the table;  Spanish
                              doubloons and French louis, which cost him some trouble to calculate.
                              He set them in cylindrical piles, row after row. Wood snapped in the
                              open Franklin stove, and no other sound could be heard in the room but
                              the liquid clink of gold. Ann and Peggy and Antywine watched the
                              counting.
                         Viane Rutledge, looking through the door at the silent company, beckoned
                              little Jane to stare at such amazing wealth.
                         "Whose is it?" whispered Jane.
                         "Peggy Shickshack's, of course. Whene would Antywine
                              La Chance, or Mr. Abe Lincoln, or Ann get it? The old Indian must have
                              been a miser. But I wouldn't be her-and a Spaniard-for all
                              her money."
                         "Two thousand and fifty dollars," announced Lincoln.
                              He began to return the gold to its pouch.
                         "Two thousand dollars is a large amount," said
                              Ann.
                         "Am I very rich?" inquired Peggy.
                         "Well, one hundred dollars will buy eighty acres of land, or
                              two horses. You are therefore worth sixteen hundred acres of land, and
                              something over for calico and linsey; and, considering the times and
                              the country, may call yourself fairly well off."
                         " Must I buy sixteen hundred acres of land?"
                         Lincoln's eyes twinkled, losing for a moment their usual
                              expression of dark blue wistfulness. He was not much older than the
                              Canadian boy who venerated him as an oracle, but he had already begun
                              to guide the destinies of others.
                         
                         "You'd better let your husband decide that matter when
                              you are older," he answered, and while the words were being
                              spoken, Pedro Lorimer entered the tavern in a whirl of winter air. He
                              closed the outer door, made his salutations with grace, and approached
                              the table where the money counters sat. Lincoln deliberately filled
                              the snake skin, tied its neck shut, and sat with it in his large
                              hands, pleasantly returning the visitor's greeting. The
                              tavern was free to all comes. Yet Antywine at once stood up in front
                              of Peggy, his blond head towering above the swamrt arrival.
                         "What you do here, eh? You drive Shickshack around, so he die
                              in the drift! When I see you today I think I will throw you in the
                              street! Go off--get some states hannex' to
                              Cuba!"
                         "My pretty fellow," returned Pedro Lorimer,
                              "I rode here through very biting cold to see my young cousin.
                              I shall now take charge of her."
                         " Tell him I won't go with him, Antywine,
                              'said Peggy.
                         "The gentleman must understand," spoke Lincoln,
                              "that he cannot force his guardianship on a girl of
                              Peggy's age-except by kidnaping. We folks in New Salem have
                              not measured ourselves with the great people in the world, but we
                              rather reckon that a New Orleans gambler would make a mighty poor
                              guardian."
                         The foreigner's olive skin, chilled by the cold from which he
                              had just entered, took a swift greenish pallor. He stepped forward
                              hissing, and snapped his fingers in Lincoln's face. Antywine
                              was upon him like a tiger,  dragging him
                              to the door, throwing him out into the snow, and shooting the bolt
                              behind him.
                         "Goody!" Peggy exclaimed with passionate approval.
                         Ann put her hands to her eyes and Lincoln laughed.
                         "Take care, Antywine."
                         The oiled paper of the window through which Peggy had watched Ann
                              Rutledge from the hand-mill, was slashed by a knife. Antywine
                              flattened himself against the door. The knife shot past his head and
                              stuck quivering in the opposite wall.
                         If New Salem folks had distrusted this erratic and intermittent visitor
                              from the first, they quite made up their minds about him when he
                              disappeared once more after Shickshack's funeral. It became
                              generally known how he had followed that poor Indian to rob a girl.
                              The winter of the deep snow gave shut-in householders plenty of time
                              to talk. The fact that Pedro Lorimer had been harbored at
                              Clary's Grove added no sweetness to his reputation. Some wene
                              afraid he would come back and organize the wild spirits there for any
                              kind of local annexation which might strike his fancy. But the
                              northern winter, from which a tropical nature shrank, went by without
                              disturbance. If Black Hawk had stirred in the Northwest, he settled
                              down to wait a better season. People no longer rode in sleds over
                              buried stake-and-ridered fences. Vast white frosted loaves of
                              prairies, and forests standing knee-deep in snow, returned to their
                              natural aspect. Streams ran brimful, and Rock Creek covered half the
                              valley during the spring thaw.
                         
                         Peggy had plenty of chances to loan her money at a high rate of interest
                              to impecunious people, with little prospect of getting it back.
                              Lincoln said he was not a good adviser, for he had failed at
                              storekeeping, and made debts which must cost him years of hard work.
                              But it appeared to him that her gold was safer in the snakeskin coiled
                              around his waist than it would be turned into anything else, until she
                              could buy and hold land.
                         Antywine and Peggy had gone back to Sally's cabin. But as the
                              season advanced and it was time to take up the work of surveying
                              again, Antywine consulted Lincoln.
                         "I have make up my mind," he declared, "not
                              to live with that woman some more at all. She have my
                              father's goods, and her first man's goods, and
                              Shickshack's cabin. She is well off. There is that
                              Onslowhouse at the west end of the road. I can buy it myself for some
                              trade. We will keep house."
                         "Peggy and you?"
                         "Yes," replied Antywine, with innocent enthusiasm.
                         "I Will take care of her. Me, I can make moccasins; I can kill
                              plenty deer and cure venison. When I am away with you to carry the
                              chain, she can bar the door and keep Sally out, and I sleep easy. I
                              not sleep easy, Sieur Abe, to go away and leave her alone with that
                              Sally, who may cast an evil eye or a stick of wood at her the minute
                              my back is turn'"
                         "You better put off the housekeeping until we come
                              home," suggested Lincoln, smiling, "and let Peggy
                                    board at the tavern while we are
                              away. She has plenty of money."
                         Antywine's blue eyes flashed joy at the unfolding of this
                              brilliant plan. He had never thought of Peggy's money as
                              currency which might be put to use. It was simply a valuable
                              possession, hoarded for her.
                         Peggy was directly received into the Rutledge family, where she had an
                              abundance of good food and Ann's teaching and companionship
                              for a stipulated sum in shillings and fips amounting to less than two
                              dollars a week. To her it was a season of joy and rapid development.
                              Viane Rutledge, herself budding into girlhood, watched the Spaniard
                              with surprise and reluctant approval. Peggy's angles
                              disappeared. She shot up taller. Her lissome limbs were round, and her
                              halting step without a crutch had an appealing charm. Her little face
                              gathered a sweetness which provoked kisses; it had the clean polish of
                              a flower petal. She was so good and so happy, so busy learning how to
                              manage the affairs of daily living, and so glad to draw her breath,
                              that everybody said, "She is growing pretty! Whoever imagined
                              that little weazened Spaniard would turn out like this?"
                         Antywine and Lincoln were away until early June. They came driving an
                              ox-wagon from the west into New Salem one evening at sunset, and drew
                              up at the vacant cabin which Antywine intended to make his own. It
                              stood waiting for him in primitive security. The ox-wagon carried a
                              squat, low chest of drawers, evidently bought at second-hand, but
                              bright and rosy through its  old mahogany
                              surface, and Antywine's first housekeeping investment.
                              Lincoln helped him unload it, and they set it on the sward before the
                              cabin door.
                         "I lift him into the house myself," said Antywine. So
                              Lincoln drove the borrowed cattle on, knowing he was welcome to put
                              them into anybody's pasture until he and his chain bearer
                              returned them.
                         Antywine opened the door of the playhouse he was intending to make for
                              Peggy. Though the sensitive part of him, which Peggy said was like a
                              woman, quivered with delight, he had a free, bold spirit, ready to
                              dare anything. On long tramps and rides and through days of mechanical
                              labor with a master mind he had been coming to his own as a man.
                         "There's a mighty difference," Lincoln once said to
                              him, "between studying with the outside of your eyeballs and
                              studying with your eyes open clear to the bottom of your
                              brain."
                         Antywine saw that new oiled paper would have to be put into the
                              weather-beaten windows, over which Peggy would hang short white
                              curtains, perhaps, like those that could be shoved apart on strings at
                              the tavern. He selected the corner for his chest of drawers, and was
                              silently calculating how long it would take to turn out chairs and
                              tables at the cooper's shop, when the smell of a cob pipe
                              made him shut the door to keep Sally from looking into his house. Saly
                              had come up behind him and was examining the chest of drawers. In
                              earlier days, before beard grew upon her face, or avarice and vindic-
                                   
                              
                                   
                                        "SALLY WAS EXAMINING THE CHEST OF
                                             DRAWERS"
                                   
                              
                               tiveness hewed it, her piercing black
                              eyes may have been admired. She fixed them on Antywine.
                         He touched his cap with the courtesy his father had taught him to show
                              all women, and said, "Good day, Sally." He heard
                              Lincoln's gee-hawing to the oxen turn to
                              "W'oa, Buck!" and saw that Slicky Green and
                              young Yates had come down the road to meet the surveyor.
                              "Have you heard about Peggy's death?"
                              inquired Sally.
                         "Her death?" Antywine repeated.
                         "Yes. She was buried week ago."
                    
                    
                    
                         VI
                         "I NOT believe you!" said Antywine.
                         "You can ask them Rutledges, then, that was hired to take such
                              fine care of her! Why don't you go and ask
                              them?"
                         "I not believe you!" trembled Antwine. He sat down on
                              the doorstep holding his blinded head between his hands.
                         "You and Peggy thought you would go to yourselves,
                              didn't you? But she lays in Concord buryin'-ground
                              now, right alongside of Shickshack; and you know where he lays. The
                              new grave's there."
                         "I not believe you! I not believe you! I not believe
                              you!"
                         Antywine leaped from the doorsill and ran like a deer to the tavern,
                              passing the young men and the oxen without noticing or hearing them.
                              Ann Rutledge was sewing by an open window with her back toward him.
                              The two younger girls were in the garden with their mother. He did not
                              see Peggy anywhere. A hush was upon the house, and as Ann turned and
                              saw him with a frightened look on her face, he could not ask any
                              question, but took the path down to Rock Creek, and ran to the stone
                              where Peggy used to hide her book for him. The sun 
                              
                                   
                                        "RAIN BEAT UPON ANTYWINE THROUGH
                                             SAPLING BOUGHS"
                                   
                              
                               was down and a ribbon of mist wavered in
                              front of the closed schoolhouse.
                         Nobody would ever wait for him at that rock again. He ran along the
                              ravine below the gardens and returned to his house, barring the door
                              and drawing the latchstring in. Lying on the floor in the darkest
                              corner, he hid his weeping, and made, no answer to the young men, who
                              called his name through the window.
                         Sally was asleep in her own cabin long before Antywine crept out of his
                              and took the road to Concord burying-ground. It was a long walk under
                              blurred stars, for the wind changed after midnight, belying the
                              promise of a fair sunset.
                         Antywine tried to bring Peggy's face before him, with its many
                              flitting expressions. Her eyes were hazel, or black, or gray, by
                              changeable turns, swarming with points of light. He remembered
                              drinking from the gourd after her, on the very side where she had
                              drank, and the pleased trembling of her lips when she noticed it. All
                              the ways and traits which went to the making of the companion he
                              called sweetheart were present to his mind, when groping among
                              saplings in the thinly peopled burying-ground he came to
                              Shickshack's sunken grave which he had himself helped to
                              make, and found a fresh clay hillock beside it.
                         The latter part of the night rain poured upon the chest of drawers which
                              Antywine had left standing in front of the cabin and streamed down its
                              polished sides. Rain beat upon Antywine through sapling boughs, satu-
                                    rating his linsey hunting-shirt and
                              darkening his worn buckskins.
                         Drenched grass and a tangle of little trees he scarcly felt or saw when
                              sodden and miserable daylight came. By the end of the afternoon some
                              light crept out from sunset, and there was a clearing up in the west.
                              Lincoln climbed the burying-ground fence, and found Antywine lying
                              asleep across the new-made grave. He was so ghastly that Lincoln at
                              once shook him, feeling relieved when he opened his eyes.
                         The boy looked up at the mole like a warm pulsing heart on his
                              friend's cheek. But his friend's eyes twinkled.
                         "What areyou doing here on old Daddy Cameron's grave,
                              Antywine?"
                         Antywine sprang as from a rattlesnake. He was exausted, so that Lincoln
                              gave him both hands to help him rise.
                         "Daddy Cameron died last week and they buried him in the same
                              row with Shickshack. He was a fine old man, but if I were you I
                              wouldn't lie out all night and all day on his
                              grave!"
                         'Sally have tell me this is where she is
                              bury'!"
                         "Who? Peggy?"
                         "Yes, Sieur Abe. Where is she?"
                         "At the tavern."
                         "She is not dead?"
                         "Not a bit!"
                         But Sally have tell me-"
                         
                         "Haven't you summered and wintered Sally long enough
                              to know when she is paying you a grudge?"
                         "But I run to the tavern myself-"
                         "And scare Ann, and run away again without asking any
                              questions. I've had a long jaunt through the mud and searched
                              the better part of a day for you."
                         Antywine threw his arms around Lincoln and sobbed and laughed like a
                              woman. He swayed, and could scarely stand.
                         "You've made yourself sick being so downhearted, when
                              you ought to have kept your wits. That Lorimer fellow is back at the
                              Grove again, and he's making a bold stand now. If he had
                              known I carry the snakeskin I reckon he would have followed our chain.
                              But Dick Yates is here. We tried to find you last night, and
                              couldn't"
                         "I tell Sally I not believe her!" shivered
                              Antywine.
                         "And then you leg it out here and pass a sentimental night and
                              watery day on Daddy Cameron's grave! I'm surprised
                              at you!"
                         The American way of joking over what had been tragedy seemed delicious
                              to the Canadian boy as he tramped back the long seven miles. When he
                              reached his house at the end of the village Lincoln did not think it
                              advisable to take him any farther. Antywine was so ill that he lay
                              down upon the floor, resisting any suggestion of food.
                         Through delirious eyes he saw the blaze, which Lincoln contrived to
                              start in the chimney, interlace sticks 
                              piled there months before in readiness for a first house-warming.
                         Lincoln was on his knees blowing it when he heard Slickry Green pant
                              through the door:
                         "Are you here, Abe? You're wanted at the
                              tavern."
                         "What's the matter at the tavern?"
                         "The Grove boys are coming to throw everything out of doors if
                              you don't give that Lorimer man the Spaniard and her
                              money."
                         "How do you know? "
                         "Martha Bell Clary slipped off on her father's horse
                              and brought word."
                         "Where's Dick?"
                         "He's looking somewhere else for you."
                         Lincoln stood up and glanced at Antywine, who had suffered, but was
                              unable to fight, resting like a log at the hearth corner.
                         "Poor Antywine!" he whispered, and carefully shut the
                              door as he went out to settle the unconscious boy's fate.
                         The self-appointed cenors of the Grove had once wrecked a store in New
                              Salem, and kicked the merchandise about the street. The population of
                              the village was about one hundred souls, few of whom could be mustered
                              as fighting men; while the Grove males were all fighting men.
                         The night was starlit and cloudless, but there was no moon. Dull panes
                              of oiled paper revealed candles in  some
                              houses, but a hush like expectation seemed to stretch along the unseen
                              windings of the street. When the Grove boys mounted for a raid of any
                              sort they usually rode at full gallop, yelling like Indians. Lincoln
                              was ahead of Slicky Green in the race to the tavern, when both
                              stopped, halted by a procession with lanterns. There had been no noise
                              of shouting and no crash of destructon. The quiet approach of the
                              company seemed worse than its ordinary rioting.
                         "They didn't stop at the tavern!" whispered
                              Slicky Green.
                         They had been to the tavern, for Dick Yates, bareheaded, was leading
                              them peaceably away from it, walking in front of the cavalcade; and a
                              girl's figure could be discerned sitting upon a led horse.
                              The velvet dust of a village road muffled the tread of hoofs. But
                              along house fronts on each side, where footpaths were marked by daily
                              use, sounded the uneven patter of many feet. Men, women, and children
                              of New Salem, suffered to witness what they could not prevent, were
                              hovering around Lincoln and the little Spaniard. He thought he saw Ann
                              Rutledge, in her short-sleeved house dress, her face showing white and
                              anxious through the dark; and Minter Grayham, whose haggardness and
                              puny strength the Grove boys would have laughed at if opposed to
                              them.
                         "Here is Abe Linoln," announced Yates; and as if he
                              had given a command to halt, the company halted.
                         "Here I am," said Lincoln. "Do you want
                              me?"  Dick and Slicky stood
                              beside him in the middle of the road.
                         "My friends and I," spoke a voice with a foreign
                              accent, "have an affair of two minutes with you. You have
                              somewhere a snakeskin purse belonging to my cousin, Consuelo Lorimer.
                              Bring it, and you shall not be injured."
                         "But if I did she'd be injured!"
                         Don't let him take me, Mr. Lincoln!" besought Peggy
                              from the midst of the riders. "I will not go!
                              Where's Antywine?"
                         "Boys, you ought to be ashamed of yourselves!"
                         "We didn't come out for a speech, Abe,"
                              mocked Redmond Clary.
                         "And I'm not practicing polemics."
                         "You get the girl's money and hand it
                              over."
                         "You let her out of that gang."
                         The gang growled.
                         We have a crowd and you have just two backers. New Salem pople
                              can't do anything. We don't want to hurt you, Abe,
                              unless we have to."
                         "String him up like a horsethief!" cried a man at the
                              rear.
                         "Are you going to hand over the Spaniard's
                              money?"
                         "No, I'm not," replied Lincoln.
                         "Ride him down!" cried another, and the horses were
                              spurred forward. Some women and children shrieked in fright as the
                              three young fellows were driven in retreat to Antywine's
                              cabin and sprang upon the chest  of
                              drawers. Standing close together with that short rostrum under their
                              feet, they faced about the ring of horsemen who drew up around them.
                              The perforated tin lanterns showered drops of yellow light on trampled
                              grass. Behind the men's heads and shoulders were a void of
                              trees and the starlit sky, and the excited murmur of New Salem.
                              Lincoln towered in the midst of the circle.
                         He could dimly see the Spanish girl, and he remembered for one instant
                              how Antywine lay exhausted within the cabin. She was looking for the
                              last time at what was to have been her home, and wondering, with an
                              ache of grief worse than her terror of the ruffians, what had become
                              of the gentle housemate who had never before failed to take her
                              part.
                         "Now men, listen to me one minute," exclaimed Dick
                              Yates.
                         " We're not here to listen," ruled the
                              leader.
                         " These boys ought to be put out;' one man insisted.
                              "We don't want them."
                         "Let my cousin's property be restored to
                              her,' spoke Pedro Lorimer, "without
                              delay."
                         "And who are you?" demanded Yates, the beauty of his
                              rosy youth, which had been felt rather than seen, changing suddenly to
                              the power of a man with inresistible magnetism. His voice rolled out
                              across the wall of rough faces. His eyes had scathing lighs. His
                              unwilling listeners raised their lanterns to look at him. "I
                              have been gathering facts about you for more than a year. You are a
                              New Orleans gambler. You ply your trade 
                              under cover of some political scheme about Cuba, a place you never
                              saw. All you want of the poor young girl sitting on the horse beside
                              you, is the handful of money her father contrived to hide from you.
                              You think it is a very large sum. It is about two thousand dollars. If
                              it hadn't been for poor old Shickshack you would have robbed
                              her long ago. You paid Shickshack's half crazy, avaricious
                              wife to send you word where he could be found, every time he moved to
                              get rid of you.
                         "These men wouldn't send a child as helpless as one of
                              their own sisters with you, if they knew you. You play the grandee
                              before them. And in the West we always have backed a man up in taking
                              his own when his rights were denied. But the only right you have in
                              this community is to be dipped in the Sangamon!"
                         Lincoln, who had seen a knife thrown at Antywine's head for
                              fewer words, kept his eye guarding the indistinct movements of the
                              Spaniard. An uneasy tremor ran around what had been a dead wall of
                              antagonism. But unfortunately Mahala Cameron's father now
                              lifted his voice from the background, and in the character of minister
                              exhorted Redmond Clary to draw his followers homeward and cease
                              abetting the ungodly. Redmond Clary turned on him and told him to go
                              home himself, or he might be neatly laid beside his daddy in the
                              Concord burying-ground.
                         One word had swiftly followed another while Lincoln gauged the force
                              drawn around him. His hair was rumpled over the arch of his head. His
                              strong nose and clean-  cut neck and the
                              outward curving of his lips showed by fitful light above his shorter
                              companions. Some radiation from his personality made one of the men
                              exclaim:
                         "Abe, we know you're honest. But if you're
                              too stubborn to hand over that money we've got a barrel at
                              the mill all ready to roll you into the river."
                         "Wait!" said Lincoln, stretching out a long
                              finger.
                         Pedro Lorimer hissed at him: "I do not wait while boys practice
                              speeches! I could myself in return call my enemies names. This is not
                              what was promised me."
                         "What Red Clary promised you," stated Lincoln with
                              intuition which amounted to knowledge, "was if you would
                              cancel his gambling debts he would make me hand over the little
                              Spaniard's money."
                         Redmond Clary flung himself off his horse and ran at his accuser. The
                              time for words was past. If the figure towering above them all had
                              stood with less assurance, the raging leader might have led his mob to
                              a cruel murder. But Lincoln's humorous eye spread a contagion
                              of smiles as he caught the bull-bodied champion of the Grove by the
                              collar and flung that muscular bulk across the ring to cool.
                         There was to be a fight. The men drew deep inhalations of enjoyment. For
                              ever since Abraham Lincoln appeared in New Salem they had wanted to
                              see him matched with Red Clary. Lincoln knew he was about to succeed
                              or fail with the only argument which could move those to whom might
                              was right. Eloquent and  convincng words
                              had to be backed by a man who could master his listeners. He was tired
                              and supperless. The Spanish girl leaned down on her horse's
                              neck, unconsciously uttering prayers aloud for her champion. The
                              struggle would be over in a few minutes, but if Red Clary whipped him
                              her future lay in unknown and terrible places. That Antywine was
                              missing seemed token that the worst must be in store for her. She was
                              in the grip of an evil force.
                         Both men threw off their roundabouts and vests. Lincln faced his two
                              companions, making them a screen, and hurriedly unfastened the belt of
                              gold which he wore under his shirt, and put it in his hat. This he
                              gave to Sick Green, who held it, while Yates stood guard.
                         "You were cut out for a banker, Slicky," said Lincoln.
                              "I wasn't. I might burst the snakeskin and spill the
                              money."
                         His opponent rushed at him like a mastiff let loose, and Peggy doubled
                              herself lower upon the horse's neck. She heard the impact of
                              blows, which sent shudder after shudder down her body, and the panting
                              of spent breath. The Grove boys set up a yell and she stuffed the
                              horses mane into her ears. The big, muscular bully who had made
                              everybody in the Sangamon country afraid of him, and shaped public
                              opinion for the Grove, was taking some cruel advantage of a dean
                              wrestler, unused to sledge-hammer brutality. Then a hush penetrated
                              even the horsehair, and Peggy looked as Lincoln knocked Red Clary flat
                              beneath the chin of a startled  animal.
                              He fell against its hoofs, and being pulled into the clear space by
                              one of his friends, lay still.
                         "I reckon," said Lincoln, pulling his own shirt collar
                              wider open, and sitting on the chest of dmawers to breathe,
                              "he has the wind knocked out of him."
                         "Goody!" Peggy's own cry of thanksgiving was
                              the first sound heard by the vanquished man. He sat up, blinking at
                              those who had seen him humbled.
                         Lincoln bent over until his body described a right angle and shook one
                              long horizontal arm at the unimpaneled jury who would have to render
                              verdict in this first case which Yates and he had associated
                              themselves to win.
                         "A boy," he panted, "is like a white dress:
                              soil him, and he can be washed and made clean again. But a girl is
                              like a glass bottle: if you let her fall, or throw her down and break
                              her, she is broken forever. Now, men, are you determined to have this
                              poor little bottle destroyed?"
                         There is often speech where no language is heard; and Pedro Lorimer knew
                              he stood by himself from that instant.
                         He spurred his home toward Slicky to seize the hat and break away with
                              it. But Antwine darted out of the cabin and across the open space like
                              a stroke of light, interceping the Spaniard. His eyes large with
                              fever, and his high features impassioned, he had almost the beauty of
                              an apparition. As the two encountered, Antywine seized the
                              home's bits and jerked it to its haunches. He and Pedro
                              Lorimer stared at each other. Before the 
                              rider found his balance again Lincoln asked with whimsical
                              significance:
                         "Boys, how would any of you like to get up out of
                              chill-and-Fever, and find all Clary's Grove helping a
                              stranger rob you of your own dear gal?"
                         A sympathetic and sheepish grin seemed to relax as much as could be seen
                              of every rude face; and Pedro Lorimer, throwing away caution, spurred
                              over Antywine. The boy fell, and leaped up, understanding it was a
                              struggle for Peggy. A whirlpool of shouts and plunging horses, and men
                              scrambling to mount, drove all watchers back. Even Redmond
                              Clary's voice was heard, denouncing the man whose part he had
                              taken. The crowd that had come down New Salem Street seeking Lincoln
                              went back driving Pedro Lorimer.
                         Horrified as New Salem people were by threatened violence, they were
                              unable to refrain from cheering. They crowded to the chest of drawers,
                              where, left stranded as by a stormy tide, sat Peggy and Antywine. He
                              held the hat and snakeskin which Slicky Green thrust into his keeping
                              before following the ebb. The pair clung together, hearkening to no
                              voices but their own, as two robins escaping from some peril of man,
                              might have felicitated and comforted each other. The air was fresh
                              like the breath of the sea after a hot land breeze has gone by.
                         Mounted all three upon the horse from which Lincoln had flung Peggy to
                              Antywine, Lincoln and Yates, and Slicky filling its back from mane to
                              tail, made the 
                                   
                                        "--AND LOOK OUT FEARFULLY FOR A
                                             DREADED FACE"
                                   
                              
                               best haste they could to the Sangamon.
                              They stood at the top of the terraced bank while Pedro Lorimer was
                              rolled down in a barrel.
                         Three times, tradition has it, the unhappy wretch took his plunge, and
                              came bobbing up like a buoy. Then Lincoln and Yates, and the cooling
                              effect of the water on those who had him to pull out, succeeded in
                              moderating popular rage against him. He was tured loose, and his horse
                              whipped in the direction of Springfield, with emphatic assurance that
                              the barrel would be kept for him, and if he ever came back would be
                              put to its final use as his floating coffin.
                         Don Pedro Lorimer was never seen again in that country. When Peggy and
                              Antywine were married, and keeping house in their own cabin, she used
                              some times to part her white curtains at night, and look out fearfully
                              for a dreaded face. But happiness and security become a habit, and she
                              loved after a while to tell her own story.
                         Years later the two who had steered her destiny- Abraham Lincoln and
                              Richard Yates-began to steer the destinies of a nation and a state,
                              and the Spaniard of New Salem grew to experience the grateful awe of a
                              person who has been visited unawares by strong angels.
                    
               
          
          
          
               
               	Colophon
                    
                         PRINTED BY R.R. DONNELLEY AND SONS COMPANY AT THE LAKESIDE
                              PRESS, CHICAGO, ILL.
                    
               
          
     
