
     ----CITATION---- 
        Ehrmann, Max, 1872-1945. A Fearsome Riddle: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3929
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            	FRONTISPIECE
                
                    "LIFE MUST OBEY THE PRINCIPLES OF MATHEMATICS"
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    A Fearsome Riddle
                
                BY
                    MAX EHRMANN
                ILLUSTRATED BY VIRGINIA KEEP
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    THE BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
                    1901
                
            
            
            
            	VERSO
                COPYRIGHT 1901 THE BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY
                
                PRESS OF BRAUNWORTH & CO. BOOKBINDERS AND
                    PRINTERS BROOKLYN, N. Y.
            
            
            
            	DEDICATION
                TO BETTIE AND JAMES S. BARCUS
            
            
            
            	EPIGRAPH
                
                    That great mystery of TIME, were there no other; the illimitable,
                        silent, never-resting thing called time, rolling, rushing on, swift, silent,
                        like an all-embracing ocean-tide, on which we and all the universe swim like
                        exhalations, like apparitions which ARE, and then ARE
                    NOT: this is forever very literally a miracle; a thing to strike us
                        dumb,—for we have no word to speak about it.
                
                
                    CARLYLE.
                
            
        
        
            
            
                A FEARSOME RIDDLE
                
                    CHAPTER ONE
                    The thing arose in this way.
                    "I know very well that no time nor place thinks itself romantic," said the
                        judge one winter night as the three of us—himself, Doctor Robinson,
                        and I—were coming into the former's study from the dining-room,
                        where we had been discussing the "crimes of fiction," as Doctor Robinson
                        expressed it. He had maintained that the product of no profession so
                        unfitted people for life as that of the romantic littérateur.
                    
                    "We live in a world," he said, dropping  into an
                        easy chair before the crackling grate fire, "which moves according to law;
                        there is no wild and weird romance here; everything has an explanation and
                        will some day be explained—even human nature is not hap-hazard.
                        Then what romance can there be in this humdrum of daily existence?"
                    "I agree," said the judge, drawing at a cigar, "that the world moves
                        according to law, and that everything, as you say, has an explanation. I
                        believe that thoroughly. But I say also that life is not humdrum, that in
                        some of its phases it is marvelous and mysterious."
                    "You novelists," laughed the doctor—for the judge had twice appeared
                        in book form—"have no regard for truth. You  create continents, nations, kings, and characters the like of
                        which never did—never could exist."
                    "Very well," said the judge meditatively, "it isn't necessary, according to
                        my notion of fiction, to do that; people as they are, are interesting
                        enough.
                    "If I were younger," he continued, "there is one piece of work I should like
                        to do. It is a case of life which came under my observation, and I know the
                        facts. It is real life—no fiction in it, doctor; yet it is as
                        strange in some ways as if Haggard, Doyle, Weyman, or some other of those
                        English clinical fellows had written it. It's a long sory; but some night
                        when we have time, I'll tell it." The judge walked to the other side of the
                             room, and taking some things out of a
                        drawer, placed them on the table. "These are some of the traps that belong
                        to the case."
                    There were an ordinary blue-covered blankbook; a roll of manuscript
                        apparently; a bottle half full of chloroform (I could smell the stuff!);
                        some morphine; a small, silver-mounted, glass-barreled instrument with a
                        long sharp point; a letter; and some scraps of paper.
                    "A hypodermic needle," said the doctor examining the instrument.
                    "Yes," answered the judge. "Look at the book."
                    Its worn appearance could only have been the result of frequent reading and
                        study, for there was little written therein.  I
                        opened it, glanced at the top of the page and read:
                    "ARITHMETIC AND TIME.—Arithmetic is dealing in time as geometry is
                        in space. Thus, counting is only giving different intervals of time to the
                        units, as,
                        1—1—1—1—1—1—1. But
                        instead of saying,
                        1—1—1—1—1—1—1, in
                        order to know the number of time intervals, different names are given the
                        units as they succeed, as
                        1—2—3—4—5—6—7.
                        Arithmetic is, therefore, a dealing in time. Thus an experiment in time is
                        one in arithmetic—the lowest form of the mathematical principle.
                        With the bodily organism we can make such temporal—therefore
                        arithmetical—experimentations."
                    
                    "What does this mean?" I asked.
                    The judge smiled.
                    Other pages were headed "The Mathematical Principle in Life." "March 16th,
                        1881, Experiment 21, black rat-terrier." "The Organism and the Time
                        Progress." "The Rhythm of Unconscious Expectation with food." I gave the
                        book to Doctor Robinson, who, looking intently at it for a few minutes,
                        resumed his seat by the fire and began to study its pages, while the judge
                        kept a musing silence.
                    "Why," said the doctor after some minutes, "this book evidently belonged to a
                        man of science."
                    "Exactly," answered the judge.
                    "But it's a mystery to me. I can't understand what the sentences mean; yet no
                             insane man could have written
                        them—they're too coherent for that."
                    "No, I do not think myself that he was insane; yet that is what some people
                        said, after the whole thing became known."
                    "Judge," I protested, "you must give us this story now."
                    "It is too long to tell to-night."
                    "Too long!" exclaimed the doctor. "Come now, judge, it's only seven
                        o'clock."
                    We settled ourselves in our armchairs; I filled my pipe, while the judge and
                        the doctor relighted their cigars, nibbling the ends with renewed energy.
                        The wind brushed about the house and piped down the large grate flue, while
                        the fire popped and crackled and the shadows flickered  on the dimly lighted walls. The judge was a delightful talker,
                        and I was glad to hear him on almost any subject. Here is the story he told
                        us:
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER TWO
                    Mr. Chauncey Rose, a pioneer in the state of Indiana, in his last will and
                        testament, left six hundred thousand dollars as an endowment for a school of
                        technology to be established in the city of Terre Haute. In eighteen hundred
                        and eighty-three, six years after his death, the school was ready for
                        operation and received its first students for instruction. Among other
                        elections, the board of trustees called to the chair of mathematics
                        Professor William Whitmore, a gentleman who had been teaching for some time
                        at the University of Virginia.
                    
                    Professor Whitmore, I should judge, was a man about forty years of age. He
                        was in nowise attractive, but the plainest and most simple of men in
                        appearance. His clothes were always dark in color, and cut after the same
                        unornamental pattern. He was of less than medium height, slender, and a bit
                        stoop-shouldered; so that with an additional springy motion in his knees as
                        he walked, he appeared not a little shorter than he really was. He was
                        smooth shaven, had a colorless face—a little sallow if
                        anything—a pointed nose, thin lips, and large but dull and
                        expressionless eyes.
                    He was strictly a man of science—quiet, methodical, curt and always
                        to the point in his statements. As a professor,  he was somewhat of a failure. Not that he was wanting in information, for
                        he was certainly a scholarly and a profound thinker; this was,
                        however,—strange as it may seem,—just the trouble; he was
                        too scholarly and too profound, always hard at work, and taking too little
                        interest in his students, and what interest he did take in them did not
                        extend beyond the subjects which he taught.
                    He never went in society, neither that of the Institution nor of the city;
                        and so far as I knew, his only walks were to and from his classroom and the
                        hotel, between which points he oscillated with the most precise regularity.
                        It was, therefore, not strange that few persons knew him by sight. His name
                        was better known, for  he had written some
                        articles for the daily press upon subjects involving
                        mathematics—astronomical phenomena, storms, or something of the
                        kind—I have forgotten now just exactly what.
                    There was not much of the worldly man in him, that is, of affairs and
                        business; he was more of a machine, as most all men of the exact sciences
                        and the languages sooner or later become. But with all this, those who knew
                        Professor Whitmore respected him very highly, for he was honest and sincere
                        to the core. Yet above and nearly to the exclusion of all else, he was a
                        thinker and a scholar—a man of science.
                    Professor Whitmore did not come to Terre Haute alone. He brought with him  a colored attendant who was known by the name
                        of Blanchard. If Blanchard had been a white man, there would have been
                        nothing particularly extraordinary about him; but being a negro, his almost
                        brilliant mind, his well-bred address, his habit of constant reading, and
                        his neat and scrupulously clean appearance, made him an object of some
                        attraction. Though slightly bald, and perhaps even a little gray, slender
                        and stooped like his master, yet taller, one could not say whether he was
                        older or younger. He lacked entirely the large, coarse features and
                        happy-go-lucky disposition of his race.
                    If one could have scrutinized these two men regardless of their difference
                             in color, there would have appeared a
                        wonderful similarity in disposition and bodily cast which could only happen
                        by chance once in many times, and which is more often the result of
                        circumstances other than those which ebb and flow by the mere caprice of
                        fortune. Blanchard, too, like the professor, was a man unto himself.
                        Whatever other reasons there were, it is easy to understand that utter
                        uncongeniality from an educational point of view, with perhaps some
                        additional aristocratic notions, kept him from associating with the people
                        of his own race.
                    Yet with all these likenesses, the two men were very different. Blanchard was
                        much more animated, had a sharp, quick eye, and a mobile face, apparently
                        capable  of expressions of intense passion. Of
                        these the professor had nothing.
                    The suite of rooms which these two men occupied on the second floor of the
                        Terre Haute House formed an angle in the northeast corner. The apex of this
                        angle, which was the professor's study, had two doors; one leading into the
                        room on the west, which was occupied by Blanchard, and the other leading
                        into a neatly furnished and somewhat spacious drawing-room on the south. The
                        professor slept in the study.
                    Some months after their arrival, I met Professor Whitmore through President
                        Thompson of the Institute. I should say that I called on him three or four
                        times that first winter, and about as often 
                        the next year. He was not a man of whose company one could stand much. He
                        was so particular to express exactly what was in his mind that I often felt
                        I was perhaps demanding too much when I engaged him in conversation. Yet
                        what he said had the rare charm of unadulterated truth—it was
                        exactly what he meant.
                    As I look back on it I believe that every call I made on the professor was
                        when I had become disgusted, during the day or week, with the endless
                        insincerity and convention of the people with whom I had come in contact, or
                        with myself. I used him as a sort of tonic. It was really refreshing to
                        listen to this man; and though one could not relish much of it, it was never
                        because it lacked  interest and depth of
                        thought, but partly for these very reasons. He spoke pearls, and they were
                        precious. When I asked him once, during the first year, to call on me, he
                        said that he had not the time, but that he would be glad to see me
                        occasionally. I did not feel piqued, I knew that what he said was the truth,
                        he never told anything else. I was often sorry that our acquaintance must
                        have meant little to him; for having no knowledge of higher mathematics, he
                        knew that I could not be in sympathy with nor follow much that he might have
                        wished to talk about. Nevertheless we had something in common: we believed
                        in each other, and that is not the least of the things that make men
                        congenial.
                    
                    One might think, from what I have said, that Professor Whitmore was a selfish
                        man. But he was not that at all; he was simply a scholar, and was
                        methodical. He lived in a different world from that of the people of the
                        street, of the trades and professions. While some sold clothing and shoes
                        for a living, he made figures and theorized about them, partly for the same
                        purpose perhaps, but more surely for a very much higher and less selfish
                        motive—the love of the thing.
                    Truthfulness, the characteristic of all real men of science,—for one
                        cannot long deceive one's self or the world about the laws of the
                        universe,—he had in such a degree that it permeated his whole
                        being; he refused to fawn upon those with whom 
                        he came in contact, even at the risk of displeasing their falsely coddled
                        minds. Some few met and understood him, they were the wiser and the richer
                        therefor.
                    However honest, sincere, and studious he may have been, selfish he was not;
                        where he could help, he was bounteous in his generosity. I recall a case
                        which came within my clientage involving some mechanical engineering. I did
                        all that in-expert knowledge could do and then went to him for help. Though
                        he was not a mechanical engineer, he knew a great deal more than was
                        necessary to explain all I wished to learn. It took nearly a whole day, but
                        he gave the time more cheerfully, it seemed to me, than on occasions when I
                        had made merely a social call. When I  left he
                        seemed very much gratified by the thought that he had been of some service
                        to me. Shortly after, when I sent him twenty dollars, as the fee of a
                        skilled mechanic in the case (which I had won), he promptly returned the
                        money, saying, "It was for our friendship."
                    Thus it was that my occasional personal relations with Professor Whitmore
                        went on, though scarcely a week passed but that I thought of him. Despite
                        our infrequent meetings, to me it was a friendship to be marked with a white
                        stone.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER THREE
                    One night well along in the month of December, eighteen hundred and
                        eighty-five, I determined to call on the professor; I had not seen him for
                        some time. It was my intention to stay until about a quarter past ten
                        o'clock when I had in mind to start for the Vandalia railway station to meet
                        my friend Doctor Skelton, who was to arrive from Indianapolis on the
                        ten-thirty train. Since I had always been received by the professor in his
                        own rooms, I did not send up my card but went directly upstairs and knocked
                        at the drawing-room door. After I had waited a moment, Blanchard opened the
                        door to  his room and looked out into the hall.
                        I walked to where he was standing and asked whether the professor was
                        in.
                    "N—ye—y—yes,
                        sir,—but—but—he can see no one," stammered the
                        negro.
                    I stood for a moment and was about to ask whether the professor was sick, but
                        the door closed with the negro within.
                    I came home and read until after ten o'clock, when I took a cab for the
                        railway station. I confess, as I thought of the conduct of the professor's
                        negro, it appeared a bit strange.
                    When the train arrived I had some difficulty in finding Doctor Skelton; he
                        was a nervous little man and moved about very rapidly. Wherever I looked, he
                        was not to be found, but was running about somewhere  else, hunting me; thus we succeeded admirably in avoiding each
                        other until all the conveyances were gone, and we were compelled to walk
                        home in the cold. I did not object, for I had been confined by close court
                        work for several weeks and enjoyed the bracing atmosphere; but poor Skelton!
                        I felt sorry for him, though he insisted he did not care at all, since the
                        night was so bright—even beautiful.
                    As we passed by the side of Centenary Church approaching Seventh Street, two
                        men came along the front at right angles to us, though somewhat ahead. We
                        were in the shadow of the church, as were the two also, but the white
                        background of snow was sufficient to show, 
                        when they came to the tower side of the edifice, that one stopped abruptly
                        and we heard him mumble something with the resolute conclusion, "I will go
                        no farther!" When we came to the front of the church, they had moved on down
                        the street but were only a short distance away. As we turned in the opposite
                        direction, I looked around, for the voice of the man, aside from what he
                        said, had something in it that attracted me.
                    "Why, that's Professor Whitmore and Blanchard!" I said.
                    "Who?" asked Skelton.
                    "Whitmore—Professor Whitmore." I was trying to think what Blanchard
                        could have meant, for I realized now that it was he who had spoken.
                    
                    
                    
                    "Well, I didn't know that man was Professor Whitmore. I have heard the name,
                        but never knew that that was the man. They evidently don't get along very
                        well. The one that spoke is a negro, eh?"
                    "Yes," I answered, "what do you think he could have meant?"
                    "Oh! I don't know—I don't know the connection; but I suppose he
                        meant what he said. They have trouble occasionally—those two; and
                        this may be another little set-to."
                    "I thought you said you didn't know Professor Whitmore."
                    "And I thought I didn't; but I know that man and that negro.
                    "It was this way," continued the doctor. "You remember last fall while Mrs.
                             Skelton was away, I had my quarters at the
                        Terre Haute House. I told the clerk that I wanted a quiet place, and on his
                        recommendation I took a room on the second floor in the east side of the
                        hotel.
                    "It was quiet enough until one night in October; I had been out to see a
                        patient and didn't get back till late—very late; I sat looking over
                        the evening paper, when I thought I heard somebody talking very loud, or
                        more likely shouting or screaming. I dropped the paper and listened. The
                        noise came from the room next to mine. It was a choking, suppressed,
                        passionate cry that seemed to be freeing itself, and became louder all the
                        time; somebody was pleading and begging as if for life.
                    "Well, my dear judge, believe me, I did  not
                        want to see murder committed under my very nose, for the case seemed
                        imminent. I slipped my revolver into my pocket, (fancy me doing that!),
                        rushed into the hall and thumped at the door next to mine. The noise stopped
                        suddenly, the door opened, and I went in uninvited. As I started toward the
                        negro, whom I could see through an open door, lying partly on the couch and
                        partly on the floor, this man whom you call Professor Whitmore stood before
                        me. He had a terrible look in his face; he undoubtedly had been beating the
                        darkey. Well, you know, that don't go up here in this day and
                        generation—"
                    "Doctor, doctor!" I interrupted, "you are certainly mistaken."
                    
                    "That he had beaten the negro?"
                    "Yes."
                    "I don't think I am; of course I din't see him do it but it looked mightily
                        that way."
                    "Have you told this to anybody else?"
                    "No. Why?"
                    "It would do Professor Whitmore great injustice; it can hardly be
                        true,—something is wrong."
                    We soon arrived at Skelton's house, and I wandered home.
                    This story set me thinking. Why had the negro refused me admittance early in
                        the evening? Why had he contradicted himself in saying that the professor
                        was not, and then that he was in? If the professor was sick, he certainly
                             would not have walked out into the cold
                        air, and especially several blocks from the hotel. Then what could the negro
                        have meant by, "I will go no farther"?
                    These things began to look sinister.
                    I remembered now, too, that one evening when I called, the negro came in and
                        said to the professor in rather an authoritative voice that it was too cold
                        in the room, and thereupon the professor obediently arose and closed the
                        window. Might it not be that it was not the negro who had pleaded for mercy?
                        and that the histrionic position on the couch and floor had been for effect
                        upon the person knocking at the door? If the negro had done the loud and
                        passionate talking, might it  not have been
                        reprimands or suppressed threats instead of entreaties for mercy?
                    I believed thoroughly in Professor Whitmore; but about the negro I knew
                        little, except that he was shrewd for his kind and had a character seemingly
                        capable of much that might never appear to the casual observation of the
                        world. I could not rid myself of thinking of the evening's information
                        concerning my friend and his attendant.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER FOUR
                    When I arrived at my office in the morning, I found a letter on the floor
                        that had been slipped under the door. It was in the handwriting of the
                        professor. "An explanation," I thought, "for my last night's misadventure."
                        But no, it was a different document—quite different!—it
                        was his will! It bequeathed everything to Blanchard, and in a personal note
                        he asked me faithfully to execute it upon his death.
                    I was settled on one thing now—I must see Professor Whitmore at
                        once. I went directly to the Rose Institute. On  inquiry, I found, to my surprise, he had not been there that college
                        year; that he had resigned his position. I went to the hotel, and was met at
                        the door by Blanchard. "Damn Blanchard!" I thought, I wanted to see the
                        professor. I asked whether he was in.
                    "Yes," answered the negro, his sharp eyes rolling nervously.
                    "I wish to see him," I said, starting toward the door.
                    Blanchard stepped before me. "That is impossible, sir."
                    I was dumfounded! The negro grew more nervous—nervously bold, and
                        would not move from his position.
                    "Did you bring a letter to my office this morning?" I asked.
                    
                    "I brought it last night," he answered, "late."
                    "Who wrote that letter?"
                    "I do not know, sir."
                    "Who gave it to you?"
                    "My master."
                    "I must see him—do you hear?" I was
                        determined—there was but one road to follow.
                    The negro quivered in a sort of savage agitation, and became a frightful
                        sight as he stood immovable before me.
                    "Wait," he said at last, never once taking his feline eyes from me, as he
                        backed into the room and closed the door noiselessly. I heard the key turn
                        on the inside.
                    In a short time he returned, opened the  door as
                        quietly as he had closed it and said:
                    "Sir, if you must see my master, come to-night at fifteen
                        minutes before eleven; do not knock. I will meet you here exactly at that
                        time; no other arrangement is possible. I hope you will make no unnecessary
                        noise in going away," and with this he closed the door in my face.
                    I saw now in the visage of the negro what I had surmised he was capable of;
                        yet mingled with the arrogant, surly authority there was fear; his eyes
                        rolled nervously back and forth, his voice was unsteady, he looked a mongrel
                        of human and devil.
                    I had the apartments watched that day. All the curtains were drawn, except
                        those  in the windows of the room occupied by
                        the negro. Professor Whitmore was not seen; but Blanchard went regularly to
                        his meals in the back of the café; and about ten minutes
                        before ten, night, he left the hotel carrying a basket, went west on Wabash
                        Avenue, stopped at Sage's restaurant, and in a short time returned to the
                        hotel. At a little after ten, a bright light shone from the professor's
                        study, and at fifteen minutes before eleven I found Blanchard waiting for
                        me.
                    He handed me this note:
                    "Judge Nutt:
                    I cannot see you. You doubtless received my will to-day. After December
                        twenty-fifth, I shall be at leisure.
                    W. Whitmore."
                    
                    It was in the professor's handwriting, but unsteady.
                    "This will not do!" I said, and before the negro had time to think, I thrust
                        him aside (he was standing in such a way that it was no hard task), burst
                        into the room and went on into the study, closing and locking the door
                        behind me.
                    Professor Whitmore sat in his dressing gown at the table, eating.
                    He stared at me in amazement—or were the thin, vacant face and wide
                        open eyes natural now?
                    "Where is Blanchard?"
                    "He was at the door," I said.
                    "He gave you the note?"
                    "Yes."
                    "I am sorry; I am not at leisure; I am  sorry
                        the note was not sufficient. Did he let you in?" he continued uneasily,
                        looking toward the door which I had just locked.
                    "No, I came in. I want to see you about the will."
                    "You received it, then?"
                    "Yes, but it is all so strange—"
                    "There is nothing strange," he interrupted, quivering from head to foot; "I
                        am sorry, but you must leave me—you must leave me at once. Since
                        you have broken in, and have seen that there is some irregularity here, you
                        must promise on our friendship to say nothing to any one. When I have time I
                        shall see you again."
                    "Have you not time now?" I asked.
                    
                    "No, no; after December twenty-fifth, no sooner. If you stay longer, it will
                        cost me a great deal."
                    He unlocked the door leading into the drawing-room, and as he opened the hall
                        door of that room for my exit, said:
                    "You must not feel offended—it is a necessity."
                    "But can I not help you?" I asked, bewildered.
                    "You are mistaken. I need no help except your silence." But the quaver was
                        still in his voice, and he was very pale.
                    I went home, sat down, and began to think as seriously and as dispassionately
                        as I could, over this matter. I thought of what I had heard the negro say,
                        of the affair related by Doctor Skelton, of my 
                        adventure during the day and the night before, of the will—the
                        will! That was a stumbling block. Why, too, had the professor let me out at
                        the drawing-room door? Was it that I should not again meet the negro? Why
                        did he command my silence? He was paler than his natural color. What had
                        "after December twenty-fifth" to do with his leisure time—was it
                        not rather release from some thraldom?
                    Even after I thought of all these things, I felt that I had been bold and
                        perhaps ungentlemanly in my conduct. But, then, was he not my friend, and
                        now my client also? Had I not some reason to be alarmed? Though my judgment
                        told me that I had acted rightly, I could not help a feeling of
                        dissatisfaction and unrest.  The conflict in my
                        mind became almost unendurable, and over all hovered the gruesome, insidious
                        face and devilish eyes of the negro Blanchard.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER FIVE
                    Several days passed—perhaps a week— it was approaching
                        Christmas; I went about the practice of my profession as usual, but the
                        thing was more or less on my mind all the time.
                    One morning Mrs. Thompson, the widow of the late President of the Rose
                        Institute, came into my office. Her husband had been dead something over a
                        month. After we had finished our business—for I was settling the
                        affairs of her husband's estate—it occurred to me that it had been
                        through him that I had met Professor Whitmore; that he and the professor,
                             so far as I knew, had been somewhat
                        intimate—if that word could be at all applied to the latter; and
                        that perhaps Mrs. Thompson might be able to give me some information
                        concerning the man whose affairs were now uppermost in my mind. But what was
                        I to say? How was I to approach the subject, inasmuch as I had been asked to
                        keep silent?
                    "By the way, Mrs. Thompson," I said —somewhat awkwardly, for it was
                        hardly germane to her call or warranted by our slight
                        acquaintance—"your husband was a friend of Professor Whitmore's was
                        he not?"
                    Having a subject suggested, I trusted in the nature of the good woman to
                        talk. I was not disappointed.
                    
                    "Yes," answered Mrs. Thompson, "my husband thought a great deal of Professor
                        Whitmore, and often spoke of him. Though I had never seen him, I wished him
                        to be a pallbearer at my husband's funeral, for there were few men of whom
                        he thought more. He often said that Professor Whitmore would some day be a
                        great man in his science. It seemed strange to me that he did not call
                        during my husband's sickness, although he sent a note occasionally."
                    "It seems to me," I said, "if I remember correctly, that Professor Whitmore
                        was not a pallbearer at the funeral—was he?"
                    "No, he was not at the funeral at all." This seemed singular to me, when the
                             two had been so well acquainted, in a town
                        of the size of Terre Haute.
                    "Would you mind, Mrs. Thompson," I asked, wholly on the strength of my
                        professional prerogative, "sending me those notes from Professor Whitmore to
                        your husband?"
                    "I suppose they are done up with the other papers; but if you do not find
                        them in the package, I shall look them up, and send them."
                    "This was a bold piece of business," I thought to myself, as the good lady in
                        black went out.
                    I believe that I am not very imaginative, but in everything I did and
                        especially when night came I could see the pallid, quivering, appealing face
                        of my  friend; and the ghastly, black grimace
                        and the white veering eyeballs of the negro. Though in my innermost heart I
                        felt that I was meddling with other persons' affairs, I did not cease to
                        meddle.
                    I thought if I could see the chambermaid who attends to the professor's
                        rooms, I could keep at least partly informed on what was going on within the
                        place that had been forbidden me, and where I felt sure some insidious
                        machination was operating. I went to the hotel, but found that the
                        chambermaids had been forbidden to enter the professor's apartments since
                        some time in October. Blanchard had forbidden them.
                    "Does Professor Whitmore take his  meals here?"
                        I asked the clerk, with whom I had some acquaintance, hoping to find out at
                        what hours the professor dined that I might "happen" to be at his table at
                        the same time.
                    "No," answered the clerk,—"wait, let me see, maybe he does; I don't
                        remember," and he began to finger a ledger. "He has rooms here."
                    "Yes, I know," I said.
                    "No, no, he has not taken his meals here since September thirtieth. Wait, let
                        me see; this thing is somewhat mixed up." After examining the book a few
                        moments, he continued: "He has not taken breakfast here since September
                        thirtieth—that's it. And after October thirtieth there is no lunch
                        charged to  him, and no charge at all after
                        November twenty-ninth."
                    This struck me as a peculiar proceeding.
                    "Will you give me those dates again?" I asked.
                    "No breakfast after September thirtieth, no lunch after October thirtieth,
                        and no dinner after November twenty-ninth," answered the clerk, evidently
                        struck by the singularity of the matter, for he looked at the book two or
                        three times to verify his statement.
                    I made note of these dates, and left the hotel.
                    There often comes a time during complications when the mind is irresolute,
                        incapable; and one stands wondering and 
                        fearing. So I stood then. But we were not living in a time of revolution or
                        anarchy. Everything was as usual in this western city; general order was
                        maintained; and if Professor Whitmore needed help, he had but to speak.
                    The satisfaction arising from this state of mind into which I had argued
                        myself was not very great, despite the fact that I had overlooked the
                        possibility of there being something which bound my friend to silence and
                        obedience, beyond the help of police officials. It was only a few days until
                        "after December twenty-fifth," when I could see Professor Whitmore, and when
                        doubtless he would relieve me of this frightful phantasmagoria of my
                        somewhat melodramatic imagination. I  decided
                        to wait, when, I hoped, everything would be set aright. What else could I
                        do?
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER SIX
                    Christmas was a sharp, cold day; the streets were a frozen crust of snow and
                        ice. From my window I could see bundled-up people hurrying by; men with
                        their hands thrust deep into their over-coat pockets and their faces couched
                        within upturned collars; women—not very many—turning their
                        backs leeward to the cutting wind which frilled and curled their skirts,
                        writhing the most charming Venus de Milo of the pavement into grotesque
                        decrepitude. I was satisfied to stay indoors that day.
                    Doctor and Mrs. Skelton were to dine  and spend
                        the afternoon with us. The doctor, as I have said, was a small, thin,
                        nervous man with a weak, rasping voice and a well bitten-off mustache. But
                        withal, he was as free from self consciousness as any man I ever knew. That
                        was the charm of his society. It was about nine o'clock when the maid
                        announced that Doctor Skelton was in the study. "'Tis a bit early," I
                        thought.
                    "Where is Mrs. Skelton? Go and call Mrs. Nutt," I said.
                    "Mrs. Skelton is not here; the doctor is alone."
                    I went down to the study.
                    "My dear judge! what do you think?" said he, nervously, and in a terribly bad
                        manner to tell such news, but he was a  nervous
                        man and could not help it. "Whitmore—Whitmore has been found
                        dead!"
                    A rhythm of piercing chills ran through me.
                    "Must have died sometime in the night. I knew he was a friend of
                        yours—and they think we'd better go to the hotel at once. They have
                        sent for me; we shall go up together; I'll wait till you are ready."
                    As we walked to the hotel a great calm came over me, a sort of lethargy of
                        all thought, except that my friend was dead—that was in my
                        mind—nothing more.
                    The hall leading to his apartments was crowded with men. In a very short time
                             the news had gone from one person to
                        another until, it seemed, everybody in the hotel knew it. We were admitted
                        by the night clerk at the drawing-room door. Two or three persons besides
                        the clerk were in the rooms. The drawing-room looked as usual. In the study,
                        low on the folding bed, lay the
                        body—silent—shriveled—stiff. Professor Whitmore
                        was not there to greet me; but an icy, livid something with a blood bubble
                        on its frosty lips lay under the covers.
                    Doctor Skelton examined carefully. "Nothing, nothing," he muttered several
                        times, "I can see nothing."
                    There was silence.
                    At last he broke out enthusiastically:
                    
                    "What is this—here on the neck? Come here, look here on the
                        neck!"
                    He had rolled the body over on the side, pulled down the nightshirt, and
                        exposed the neck, below and to the front of the left ear, over which he was
                        now holding a strong lens.
                    "Purpuric spots—purpuric spots," muttered the doctor.
                    Looking through the lens, I could see perhaps twenty unnatural-looking spots
                        from the size of a pin head down. Some were slight red discolorations of
                        congested blood, others were festered, and still others were nearly
                        invisible, colorless scars. They were scarcely discernible without the
                        lens.
                    Somebody asked what these spots  meant; but I
                        left the room before I heard the doctor's reply, if he made any; I was sick
                        of the sight of the examination.
                    I could not rest; I went to my office, got the will, and looked it all over
                        again. I tried to organize what I knew—what I had seen and
                        heard—but my mind, as well as the facts, was in a swirl; nothing
                        would organize; everything was chaos! but my friend—that he was
                        dead—that was clear.
                    About five o'clock in the afternoon a reporter called, and I told him of the
                        will. He already knew what Doctor Skelton had told me that night coming from
                        the railway station, and what we had seen between Professor Whitmore and
                        Blanchard near Centenary Church.
                    
                    At six o'clock I went back to the hotel and learned that the negro was
                        missing. On entering the rooms again, I saw—what I had not seen in
                        the morning—that there were several bundles of the professor's and
                        the negro's belongings packed as if ready for shipment.
                    A little later it was learned from a clerk in an uptown railway ticket office
                        that Blanchard had inquired about rates—where to, he did not
                        remember—the day before.
                    When these things became generally known—and it took but a very
                        short time—suspicion turned against the negro; and to increase the
                        indignation, which was gradually growing into frenzy, a north-end druggist
                        said that a negro,  very much like the
                        description of Blanchard, had purchased ten grains of morphine and a
                        hypodermic needle at his store something over two months before, and had
                        asked in a peculiar way whether that amount of morphine "would kill a man."
                        The conduct of the negro had aroused the suspicion of the druggist, and he
                        had for that reason a distinct recollection of the purchase. When Doctor
                        Skelton heard this, he smiled in professional satisfaction. "The spots on
                        the neck—the spots on the neck—injections of morphine. The
                        man has told the truth."
                    Blanchard's room was now searched, and not only were the morphine and
                        hypodermic needle found, but also a half  empty
                        bottle of chloroform—all secreted in the covers of his bed, which
                        had not been slept in that night. What more evidence was wanted?
                    About ten o'clock that night a telegram was received from Staunton, Virginia,
                        commanding to "seize the nigger," signed — "Waldon Whitmore." But
                        Blanchard, "the niggger," had not yet been found.
                    There was one newspaper issued that day; it appeared about six o'clock, and
                        was unrestrained in its condemnation of Blanchard as the murderer of
                        Professor Whitmore. It recited the event which Doctor Skelton had witnessed
                        in October, interpreting it as an assault which the professor had made upon
                        the negro,  and as giving the latter an
                        additional motive for taking his master's life; but the greatest stress was
                        laid upon the will. This account was read all over the city that Christmas
                        night, and what had been learned since six o'clock spread with scarcely less
                        rapidity.
                    So it happened, by ten o'clock that wintry night—in the city of
                        Terre Haute, but a few years ago—that men, singly and in straggling
                        groups, began to skulk about the back of the hotel. It was clear enough what
                        was in the air. A serving girl had just said that she had seen Blanchard on
                        the second floor late in the afternoon. But neither mob nor officers could
                        find the negro. He was gone.
                    In an interview with Doctor Skelton  which
                        appeared in the morning Express, it was stated as the
                        doctor's opinion that death could not have been the result of the morphine
                        injections, since the little wounds on the neck were either healed or
                        covered with a pus of some days' standing, and no other similar wound or
                        wounds were found on the body. Death had been the result of the chloroform,
                        was the doctor's opinion, for the body in nowise showed indications of
                        violence, and a post-mortem examination disclosed no internal
                        disorganization. The paper also stated that another druggist had been found
                        who identified the description of Blanchard and the half empty chloroform
                        bottle. Thus it was the unanimous belief that the negro Blanchard had killed
                        the  professor by the use of chloroform. I
                        believed it myself.
                    When the Gazette appeared the next evening the negro had
                        not been found.
                    The only additional fact reported in that issue was that a canary bird had
                        been found dead in a cage in the study, where it will be remembered the body
                        also had been found; the writer ventured to suggest that the two deaths
                        occurring simultaneously, might have been caused by escaping gas; but it was
                        more probable that the dead bird was an ingenious scheme of Blanchard's to
                        divert suspicion.
                    Blanchard's intelligence was against him. The morphine, hypodermic needle,
                        and chloroform having been bought some time before the murder, showed that
                        the  negro had taken great precaution, and had
                        worked out his plans upon what seemed to him, and with good reason, sure and
                        safe methods. He had looked so far ahead as to prepare some packages of his
                        and the professor's most valuable belongings, that in case of any suspicion
                        of him, he might be ready to flee in good form and with at least some reward
                        for his trouble. The discovery that he had inquired about railroad rates
                        gave strength to this view.
                    Nobody liked the negro, for he had proudly kept himself aloof from his own
                        race, and had made not the least solicitation for the acquaintance of
                        anybody else. The fact is that he knew more than most persons with whom he
                        came in contact, and many frequently and stingingly felt  his superiority. He was not the public toy
                        that most colored people are in the North—to be played with, and
                        joked with, and laughed at, at pleasure, Some of the clerks in stores where
                        he did business for the professor had tried this; but he always rose proudly
                        and disdainfully above them by some such remark as "beg pardon," or "I
                        hardly understand."
                    Thus it was written down in everybody's mind that the negro Blanchard had
                        forced a will from Professor Whitmore, and then killed him. I was of that
                        conviction myself; but there was something more to this case, as will be
                        seen.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER SEVEN
                    On the morning of December twenty-seventh, there lay before me the last
                        papers and correspondence of the late President Thompson. Among them was
                        this letter:
                    "President Thompson.
                    Dear Sir: For the last few days the time rhythm has become established in me.
                        The bird is doing well—it is following. The utter darkness of the
                        room overcomes the difficulty we had spoken of.
                    Blanchard tells me he read in the evening paper that you are sick. I hope it
                        is nothing serious.
                    Nov. 1, '84. W. Whitmore."
                    "What kind of letter is this?" I asked myself.
                    
                    The disorganized data which I—and perhaps only I—knew in
                        the affair of the death of Professor Whitmore had now, for the first time,
                        two facts which could be co-ordinated and not directly construed, as nearly
                        all the other facts had been, against the negro. What was the bird
                        following? Having been found dead at the same time as its owner, it was not
                        an altogether unwarrantable inference that it was following him. Then what
                        did he mean by "the time rhythm has become established in
                            me?"
                    
                    If the "in me" had been omitted, I should undoubtedly have passed over the
                        matter, thinking it but a concern of his science which he had been
                        discussing with his friend. "The utter darkness of the  room"—it is true that the curtains of the study and
                        drawing-room had, of late, nearly always been drawn.
                    I did not say to myself that the negro had not killed his master, but, on the
                        other hand, I could not say that all had been explained. What was the
                        meaning of the facts which the hotel clerk had given me concerning the
                        professor's meals—"no breakfast after September thirtieth, no lunch
                        after October thirtieth, and no dinner after November twenty-ninth"? Was
                        Blanchard starving his master? No, it could not have been that, for the meal
                        which I had seen the professor eating was a large one; and the cook at
                        Sage's restaurant said that the food which he 
                        had been preparing daily for Blanchard since about December first, would
                        easily have made two ordinary meals, even when the smallest quantity had
                        been ordered.
                    In my thoughts I got no farther that day. I was continually condemning myself
                        for not having carried out my first impulse more persistently, for not
                        having called the attention of the police before it was too late. I might
                        have saved my friend's life; part of the responsibility of his death haunted
                        me; I had even kept silent about the will until I had been asked, and I had
                        said nothing whatever of the other things I knew. Yet after all, what good
                        might it have done to speak out? Had I not been sworn to silence? Had not
                        the professor asked it himself?  And might
                        there not have existed between these two men a web of life, intricate and
                        cunning, beyond the stereotyped comprehension of civil authority? Had not
                        the professor willingly stayed in the venomous grasp of the negro? Did they
                        not look alike? Who knew anything of their past lives? I say I got no
                        farther in my thoughts that day, nor the next day, until in the night.
                    I was sitting at my study table, looking again at the dates the hotel clerk
                        had given me,
                    "No breakfast after September thirtieth.
                    "No lunch after October thirtieth.
                    "No dinner after November twentyninth."
                    
                    Once more I asked myself what this could mean. People do not stop boarding at
                        a place in this peculiar fashion. Now it flashed upon me that (October
                        having thirty-one days) these dates were just thirty days apart: thirty days
                        after breakfast stopped, lunch stopped; and thirty days after that, the
                        professor took no more dinners. It was about that time, according to the
                        statement of Sage's cook, that Blanchard began to take food from the
                        restaurant in a basket.
                    Doctor Skelton suddenly dropped in on my meditation.
                    "Something has turned up," he said.
                    "What! have they found the negro?"
                    "No, no. A brother, Mr. Waldon Whitmore. He will take the body home."
                    
                    "Home—where to?" I asked.
                    "To Virginia; they are from Virginia."
                    "I must see him first," I said.
                    "Yes, of course," answered the doctor. "Perhaps we had better see him at
                        once. It was he who sent the telegram to 'seize the nigger,' you
                        remember."
                    I remembered that very well.
                    "Doctor," I said, "are you very sure that it was the chloroform that killed.
                        Professor Whitmore?"
                    "I believe that was it—I believe that was it. It could not have been
                        the morphine injections, for even the latest spots on the neck must have
                        been there several days. The injections, too, had been going on undoubtedly
                        for some time, for many of the spots, as you remember, were hardly  visible; and further, the quantity of morphine
                        used (judging from the amount purchased and what was found left in the
                        negro's bed), injected through the length of time that the purpuric spots
                        indicated, would easily have established a tolerance for the opiate. No, it
                        could not have been the morphine," concluded the doctor.
                    "Then you say that the injections were made at different times and perhaps
                        through a considerable period?" I asked.
                    "Yes, I should say that."
                    "The professor must have made these injections himself then."
                    "Hardly," said the doctor meditatively, "it is such an awkward
                        place—there in the neck—to inject one's self."
                    
                    "But he must have known of them," I said.
                    "Yes, yes," answered the doctor; "but the negro did his
                        business with the chloroform."
                    "Might not the negro be innocent?" I said abruptly.
                    "Impossible! impossible! there is the will, the bags for shipment, the
                        inquiry about rates, the quarrel in October, the negro's escape when the
                        suspicion grew against him—no, no, I tell you, my dear judge, it
                        was Blanchard; he knew when to do such a job too; he could not have selected
                        a better time than Christmas eve, when everybody is at his own
                        fireside."
                    I got the note that Professor Whitmore had written me the night I forced  my way into his study, and handed it to Doctor
                        Skelton. His eyes blinked and his face jerked nervously as he read it, first
                        to himself, then aloud.
                    "Judge Nutt.
                    I cannot see you. You doubtless received my will to-day. After December
                        twenty-fifth, I shall be at leisure.
                    W. Whitmore."
                    The doctor still jerked and twisted as he stared at me; he always acted in
                        this way when there was a puzzle and no explanation to ease his mind.
                    I then told him everything I knew. It made the little man so nervous that I
                        was almost sorry I had said anything; but Skelton had a brilliant mind, and
                        I needed his assistance—alone I could go no farther.  He at once recognized the exact thirty days
                        between the meal hours.
                    On our way to the hotel, where we were going to meet the brother, we stopped
                        at the drug store across the street to buy a cigar. We were still talking
                        about the things I had related, when Doctor Skelton, I think, mentioned the
                        name of Whitmore in the hearing of the clerk.
                    "He used to smoke that very cigar," said the clerk, as I was taking an
                        "Havana filler" out of the case.
                    "I did not know that Professor Whitmore smoked," I interjected.
                    "Oh! yes," continued the clerk, "he used to smoke one cigar every day. He was
                        the quietest man I ever saw; he used to come in here every morning after  breakfast and get his cigar and never say a
                        word to anybody. He got to coming later and later in the day, until toward
                        the last he would come in the night, at nearly closing up time."
                    "Skelton," I said, as we walked into the hotel, "What do you think of this?
                        there are the meals being stopped at different times, the morphine injected
                        at different times, and the daily smoke at different times."
                    "Yes, yes," said Skelton, "not only that, but the meal taken latest in the
                        day was the one longest continued, and the one cigar a day was smoked later
                        also—things seemed to have happened later toward the end of his
                        life."
                    The doctor had gone me one better.
                    
                    The brother, Waldon Whitmore, was a one-armed Southern gentleman, evidently
                        much older than the professor. His gray hair and beard were in singular
                        contrast with his florid complexion and small but bright and alert eyes. He
                        had none of the professor in his face, and certainly much less (if that is
                        possible) in his manners and character. He had military dignity in his
                        bearing. He was a good swearer, used tobacco in every form, and drank
                        "straight" whisky and gin cocktails in frequent instalments.
                    He did not seem to be moved so much by the death of his brother as by the
                        supposed guilt of the negro, whom—it could be seen in every
                        word—he hated. He said that many years ago he had foreseen  the sad end of his brother, and that he had
                        repeatedly warned him against the "nigger," but all to no purpose.
                    He satisfied the authorities that he was Waldon Whitmore, and soon left for
                        the South with all that was mortal of my friend, the professor.
                    Not long afterward, according to my duty, I entered the will that had been
                        entrusted to me for probate. About a week later a suit was filed by Waldon
                        Whitmore, through attorneys, to set it aside as an instrument which had been
                        forced from the alleged testator. The plaintiff showed that he was the only
                        surviving near relative of the deceased; and upon the evidence already given
                        against the negro Blanchard, the will was easily  set aside, and an estate of some twenty thousand dollars went to Waldon
                        Whitmore.
                    The brother took all the belongings of the professor from his apartments that
                        might be of value or easily disposed of, but papers, scrapbooks, manuscripts
                        and the like he left behind. It was from the verge of this debris of stuff,
                        burning in the street, that the blue-covered blankbook was picked up by the
                        man engaged in the not very absorbing business of watching the bonfire,
                        whence it finally found its way into my hands. It is unfortunate that the
                        other papers were burned. They might have been of value to modern
                        science.
                    Through these events Doctor Skelton  and I
                        became even better acquainted, and though he always maintained that
                        Professor Whitmore had come to his death by chloroform, he admitted that
                        there were facts in the case which had, indeed, not been explained, and
                        which seemed strange and mysterious. We often walked together and talked the
                        matter over, but could not get beyond our first futile attempts to
                        understand what had taken place within Professor Whitmore's apartments prior
                        to his death.
                    The negro Blanchard had been searched for everywhere—in a manner,
                        all over the country, but he was neither found nor heard of.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER EIGHT
                    Eighteen hundred and eighty-five and eighty-six passed; it was the fall of
                        eighteen hundred and eighty-seven when Autumn bold, With universal tinge of
                        sober gold was ushered in. Pardon the poetry! It's about the only line I
                        know, but can't say now whether it's Keats or Shelley—it doesn't
                        matter much, I suppose; we'll let it suffice for a flowery description of
                        beautiful, muddy, cheerless autumn. The death of Professor Whitmore had been
                        about forgotten. The public has a short memory. A few other crimes had been
                             committed, and had supplied the sort of
                        romantic, realistic literature always more or less in demand.
                    One afternoon a well dressed young man presented himself at my office as
                        Charles Crossley—the same Doctor Crossley who is practising
                        medicine in Terre Haute now. He related to me a singular story which I will
                        not attempt to tell in his own language.
                    He had graduated that summer from the New York College of Physicians and
                        Surgeons. His home was in the state of New York; but he wanted to establish
                        himself in the west. A friend, who was also a student in the college, and
                        whose home was in Virginia, had repeatedly asked Crossley to come and spend
                        a vacation  with him. After his graduation he
                        decided to accept the invitation; and the two started for the South. They
                        went down the ocean, up the Chesapeake Bay and Potomac River, thence
                        southwest by rail. It was a long trip—perhaps twice the distance of
                        the direct route, and nearly all by water—but they had nothing to
                        do, and thought that as good a way to idle time as any.
                    The father of Crossley's friend had been a Confederate soldier, who had not
                        only lost part of his body in the war—having only one
                        arm—but had also been deprived of nearly all of a very large
                        estate. He had recently, however, upon the death of a brother who had been
                        foully killed in the North, come into some 
                        additional possessions, with which, the spring before Crossley's visit, he
                        had purchased a portion of the old plantation upon which he had lived before
                        the war.
                    Crossley stayed for some time, for he had nothing in particular to do but to
                        decide where to settle—a hard task, alas! nearly as hard for a
                        young man as to decide what profession he shall keep out of, or in which one
                        he will be of the least uselessness—a thing, however, more often
                        settled by circumstances than by one's self, as it turned out in this
                        case.
                    One day when Crossley was out roving over the farm (for it could hardly be
                        called a plantation now), he happened near some of the negro huts, and
                        looking into one, saw a sight which struck him as  being somewhat novel. An old darkey sat by a table, writing.
                        Crossley had no idea that "niggers"—as they called them down
                        there—did that sort of thing, certainly not in the extensive manner
                        in which this one seemed to be engaged, for he had rather a large stack of
                        written pages at his side. As soon as the negro saw Crossley, he grabbed up
                        the sheets and furtively put them behind him.
                    The next day when he was with his friend he mentioned something of what he
                        had seen.
                    "Oh! that crazy old nigger! We don't pay any attention to him; he's lost his
                        mind," said his friend.
                    After several calls at the hut, Crossley was able to strike up an
                        acquaintance  with the old darkey, whom, to his
                        great surprise, he found not to be ignorant, much less crazy, but educated
                        and in his speech almost refined. If he had any mental ailment, it was
                        melancholia of a deep, sensitive and awful sort, which was all the more
                        intensified by his being a negro, of whom one would not naturally expect so
                        refined a dejection.
                    But he was thought to be crazy and for all Crossley knew, it may have been
                        his wish to be so considered. In appearance slender, and though very
                        stooped, he was still of medium height; his body showed no marks of hard
                        labor; his hands were small and regular, and his face sharp and clear cut in
                        outline. He had nothing of the Southern negro in feature or disposition,  but that he had once been taller, heavier, and
                        more cheerful could easily be seen.
                    After the first few calls Crossley made, the old negro became accustomed to
                        him and would not attempt to hide the written pages, as at first. He asked
                        Crossley, however, to say nothing about his visits to the hut (which seemed
                        to please him quite as much as they had at first amused his guest), and
                        certainly never to mention anything about the writing. Crossley promised,
                        and they became as good friends as the circumstances of the old negro's
                        dejection would allow.
                    One night about two hours after Crossley had retired, he heard somebody at
                        his window, calling in a loud whisper, "Massa 
                        Crossley! Massa Crossley!" It was one of the old wenches. "Come, Massa
                        Crossley, de crazy old niggah is a dyin'; he wants ter see you fust please,
                        sah, come quick, Massa Crossley!"
                    When Crossley arrived at the hut, the old negro was lying on a low trap of a
                        couch with very little life in him. The wench had disappeared. On
                        examination, Crossley found his condition serious; there was a very feeble
                        pulse, labored respiration, and a cold perspiration covered the entire body.
                        He was about to start to the house for drugs and water, when the negro began
                        to speak:
                    "No, stay here, I must tell you something before you go," and with this he
                        drew a roll of papers—evidently those he  had written on—from under the couch. Grasping it
                        tremblingly, he stretched toward Crossley a skinny black arm from which the
                        torn sleeve had fallen, exposing an ugly strip of white scar from the elbow
                        down. "Send this," he said, "to Judge Nutt, Terre Haute, Indiana. Tell him
                        where I am dying."
                    "But, but," said Crossley, much moved, "you are not dying! I can help you,
                        I'll be back in a minute," and he ran out toward the house. When he
                        returned, the negro was not there; he had disappeared. Crossley searched
                        about the hut, but there being no moon that night, he was compelled, after
                        stumbling about in the dark for some time, to give up the search. He
                        returned to the hut, took the  roll of
                        manuscript from the floor, and went back to the house.
                    "Well, the crazy old nigger died last night," said Crossley's friend the next
                        morning.
                    Crossley was about to ask where he had been found, but realizing that this
                        might betray the fact of his having been in the empty hut the night before,
                        he asked where the body of the dead darkey lay.
                    "Where they found it this morning, in the cemetery, down by the river,"
                        replied his friend.
                    Crossley asked where the cemetery was; and after his friend had left, went in
                        that direction. Just before he arrived at a spot where two flat tombstones
                        lay  on a slope in the ground, he came upon a
                        couple of darkies digging and tussling with roots under a large, knotted
                        tree. By their side was a coarse wooden box in which lay the dead body of
                        the old negro, a peaceful expression on his thin old face, and his hair now
                        as white as snow.
                    "He was a slabe heah 'fo' de wa'," said one of the darkies.
                    "He was? Where was he found this morning?" asked Crossley.
                    "He was found ober on de grabe, ober yonder, on de grabe, sah," said the
                        other darkey, pointing toward a little slope near the river.
                    It was a beautiful, quiet, green spot looking toward the south, not thirty
                        yards  from which the river glided gently away.
                        There were two marble slabs lying in the ground; and a little to the left, a
                        grave marked only by a low mound of grassgrown earth.
                    One of the slabs read,
                    "ABRAHAM STARR. Born 1774. Died 1842."
                    The other, "MARGARET STARR WHITMORE.
                    Born 1821. Died 1859."
                    From the flattened and crushed appearance of the grass over the tombless
                        grave, Crossley could see where the dead negro had been found, and where he
                        must have lain a good part of the night.
                    
                    He went back to the gravediggers just as they were lowering the body. There
                        were no services; nobody was there except Crossley and the two darkies,
                        nobody said anything, and the only noise was the regular thump of the
                        falling dirt on the wooden box. In a few moments the grave was filled; the
                        negroes wiped their brows and went away. Crossley remained a little, then
                        returned to the house.
                    A week later he took leave of his friend, and came directly north.
                    The young man had not gone far in this story concerning the poor old darkey
                        and his sad death before I recognized Blanchard. I at once undid the roll,
                        and found that I was not mistaken. Dr.  Skelton
                        was sent for; and in less than an hour the three of us—Crossley,
                        Skelton and myself—began the reading of the manuscript.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER NINE
                    I was born a slave near the lower part of the Shenandoah River, in Virginia,
                        the property of Abraham Starr, a very rich old gentleman, master of several
                        plantations and many negroes. He was in his declining years when I came into
                        this world; I do not believe I ever saw him. I can only remember of having
                        heard of him; he was always spoken of as a very white-haired, and a very
                        kind old man.  He had an only daughter,
                        Margaret, his sole heir, who was at the time of my first faint memory about
                        twenty years old.
                            This wonderful document—wonderful because Blanchard was a
                                negro and for what it records— is made public now for the
                                first time; only a few omissions—apologies, repetitions,
                                and the like—and a few changes necessitated by printing
                                have been made.—M. E.
                        
                    
                    A year after the death of Abraham Starr, Margaret married a gentleman from
                        New Orleans by the name of Whitmore—William Whitmore. They lived on
                        the plantation for a year or two, during which time a son was born to them.
                        They named him Waldon.
                    Now, in accordance with the wishes of the husband, the family left the
                        plantation and moved to New Orleans; but Mrs. Whitmore's health was very
                        poor in the far South, and after two years' absence they returned to the
                        plantation. Perhaps she wished to return because she had  promised her father to keep up the plantation
                        and continue the beautiful life he had led there with his wife and one
                        child. Perhaps, too, she had promised him that her children should be born
                        there, in the same house where she had been born and had grown into
                        womanhood, and from which she had never gone more than ten or fifteen miles,
                        and then always in the company of her father.
                    I do not know that she promised these things, but from what I have several
                        times heard, she might have done so. No matter what she had promised the
                        good, white-haired father in the time of her simple girlhood, when to her
                        the plantation was the world, she had now a strong desire to get back to the
                        quiet life which  she had lived before her
                        marriage. I had stayed on the plantation during their absence.
                    According to the slave-book of the Starr plantation, in which births, deaths,
                        purchases, and sales of slaves were recorded, I would be six years old on
                        September nineteenth. This was the year eighteen hundred and forty-five. My
                        birthday did not have any celebration; perhaps besides myself no one knew of
                        it; and I should never have known had it not been that I sometimes looked
                        over this book, trying to make out the letters and figures. It was in this
                        way, with the assistance of one of the masters who caught me at the book one
                        day, that I found out my name was Blanchard, my  number 183, and that my birthday was on the above date.
                    Yet after all September nineteenth was an eventful day in the quiet household
                        of the plantation; on that day a second son was born to Mr. and Mrs.
                        Whitmore. This was two months after they had returned from New Orleans. This
                        second son was named William.
                    I was one day standing near the house holding Mr. Whitmore's horse until he
                        should come to mount and ride away. After he had been gone a little while
                        and I was still standing where I had held the horse, old Aunt Jennie came to
                        the diningroom door and said in a loud voice: "Come here, nigger. What's
                        your name?" "Blanchard," I replied.
                    
                    "Yes, you come in the house."
                    I was taken into Mrs. Whitmore's private chamber. It was the first time I had
                        ever been inside the house.
                    "Blanchard, you say is your name?" asked Mrs. Whitmore. She was a slender,
                        pale lady, still worn from the birth of her child.
                    "Yes, ma'am," I answered.
                    "Who named you?"
                    "I do not know, ma'am."
                    "How do you know that is your name?"
                    "It says so in the slave-book."
                    "Bring me the book."
                    I brought the book, and showed her the page, name, number, location of the
                        cabin in which I was born, and date of birth. I saw that it aroused some
                        kind of feeling  in her; it was not of
                        anger,—I never saw her angry, and after that I saw her very often;
                        it was as if she remembered something, as of her father. She gently tore the
                        page from the book, and placed the volume in my arms. The writing had been
                        by her father, but there was something more than that, which perhaps only
                        the dead could have answered.
                    "Take back the book, Blanchard," said Mrs. Whitmore, "and come here again
                        after dinner."
                    I returned the book, but could not for the life of me tell what had happened,
                        or what was wanted with me. I now know that if this circumstance had
                        happened on some plantations, a little nigger in my condition would have
                        been frightened out 
                        
                         of his wits; but instead of cruel punishment
                        and fear, on that plantation respect and obedience reigned; the master was
                        honored nearly as a god, and the good Mrs. Whitmore inspired those about her
                        with a reverence which I felt but could not then understand.
                    I went into the house after dinner, and into the room where Mrs. Whitmore
                        said I should come. The baby of some months was lying on Aunt Jennie's
                        lap.
                    "Blanchard," said Mrs. Whitmore, hesitatingly at first, "you are—you
                        are to belong to this child when he becomes a man. You must now help to take
                        care of him; when the summer comes you must take him out into the woods, you
                        must play with him, you must be kind and 
                        gentle to him that he will be so to you." Thus she continued for a little
                        while, telling me how I should take care of young William. I tried to
                        remember, to obey what she said.
                    The winter passed and summer came— several winters and summers
                        passed. My master and I were much alone; I grew to love him (if you will
                        allow that a slave is capable of that); he was not a beautiful child, but
                        was good, and above all never cruel to anything. We fished and swam in the
                        Shenandoah, climbed the solitary mountains, imagining ourselves hunters and
                        adventurers; we were often gone from morning till night.
                    He did not become robust as his mother had hoped, nor cheerful nor gay, but
                             began early to read books, and to think
                        about things. He told me the stories he read, and often tried to explain to
                        me what he was thinking about; he also taught me to read and write and
                        figure. He had no liking for his brother, nor for any one except his mother
                        and father, whom he reverenced, and for me.
                    It seemed that I was a part of him; when he suffered, I did; when he
                        rejoiced, I did; my life was swallowed up in his; I did not understand it,
                        and when I began to think a little for myself, I could not explain it, but
                        when he was yet very young he told me that was the way it was between us,
                        and I believed, and believe it still.
                    One morning, when my master was in  his tenth
                        year, we went on one of our accustomed trips to the mountains; I remember
                        the day very well. About a mile from the house the mountains began to rise
                        high into the air. My master had all the peaks named, but I do not remember
                        what.
                    On this morning he was trying to explain to me why the mountains did not sink
                        into the ground; he gave lots of figures, proportions and the like that I
                        couldn't understand. We climbed up, through the trees and over rocks, to a
                        favorite ledge, and sat down and surveyed the valley below as it stretched
                        out for miles before us toward the west. We stayed out till night, far too
                        long. I ran nearly all the way down the mountain  with my master on my back, but we came home too late.
                    While we were still gone, and it grew darker, Waldon whispered into the
                        father's ear that I had too much influence over William, and that I ought to
                        be disposed of. When we approached the house my master went in, and I went
                        to where I lived,—a cabin half way between the home of my master
                        and the cabins of the other slaves.
                    It was very dark; not a star was out, but I knew the path well. When I had
                        gone but a short distance some one stopped me and said: "You damned
                        nigger—where have you been with William to-day?" It was Waldon. He
                        was large and strong for his age, and hated me like  death. As I was telling where we had been, a crash came upon
                        my head, and I fell.
                    I do not know to-day who struck me; it seemed too hard a blow for Waldon to
                        strike, and yet it was so unexpected that it may not have been so hard as I
                        thought, and he may have done it—I do not know, I say, I do not
                        know. What took place in the house concerning me I also do not know, except
                        that I narrowly missed being sold. It was my master who had prevented it,
                        but only at the risk of leaving home to follow me. After that time the
                        relation between the two brothers was more distant than before. I never told
                        my master about the knock on my head, but he knew of it.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER TEN
                    In eighteen hundred and fifty-seven, when William was twelve years of age, we
                        went across the mountains to Fredericksburg, where he entered a school in
                        preparation for the Naval Academy at Annapolis. I remember very well the day
                        we left; the good mother, who seemed to me to have become more angelic every
                        year, cried a great deal, but the father said that it had to be; that
                        William had to get an education.
                    At Fredericksburg we lived the quietest kind of life; my master studied very
                        hard—so hard that I often had to talk  very earnestly before he would leave his books. I was afraid for his
                        health. The mother came across the mountains to see William frequently. I
                        could notice in her face that, under the burden of the times, she was
                        rapidly becoming old; her face did not lose any of the sweet expression it
                        had borne ever since I could remember, but it became softened into a
                        sorrowful resignation, which seemed only to change when in the presence of
                        her son William; he was very dear to his mother, and she to him.
                    Everybody knows the uncertainty of the times; it was the year
                        fifty-nine—in the fall; a great cloud began to gather over the
                        nation, and the maelstrom of war to seethe and swirl about us; there was
                        soon  to be a great sacrifice in a night of
                        months —of years.
                    Mrs. Whitmore made her last visit to Fredericksburg. The life which she had
                        lived with her father was destined never to return, it had not returned in
                        her marriage; she had been comparatively happy, but there were some natural
                        differences between her and her husband which prevented them from
                        understanding each other—so my master afterwards told me.
                    The mother saw now that even the home of her childhood was likely to be
                        destroyed, that her husband and at least one of her sons were to be dragged
                        into a bitter war. Her strength did not cease to ebb away, but ebbed away
                        entirely; she  died in the latter part of
                        November, eighteen hundred fifty-nine, and was buried beside her father, on
                        a beautiful slope of the Shenandoah looking toward the South.
                    The death of his mother seemed to have an effect upon my master, that stayed
                        with him until I saw him last. She was the only person with whom he indulged
                        the least emotion; the sentiments and feelings of others had no effect upon
                        him. I do not know that he believed them unreal, but he simply passed them
                        unnoticed. But whatever else the death of my master's mother was to me, it
                        seemed above all a blessing. What room was there for a soul like hers in the
                        Shenandoah Valley during the time that was to 
                        come? None. She died before the war Was that not a blessing?
                    That winter we stayed on the plantation. Waldon had gone to Annapolis, and
                        the father went frequently to Richmond, which was fast becoming the center
                        of the Southern Confederacy. He was a firm believer in the principles of the
                        South, and was among the first to arouse the people of Virginia; and when
                        the conflict began he was one of the first to offer his services and his
                        fortune. After the death of his wife he became desultory in his habits, but
                        in his love for the South he never wavered.
                    Waldon had been sent to Annapolis to be prepared for the coming struggle
                        which the father seemed to have foreseen  long
                        before most people. My master was also to be sent to Annapolis the next
                        fall. Waldon grew to be like his father, wild and ravishing, and began
                        early, under his father's influence, to nurture an intense hatred for the
                        North. But my master lived along in the same quiet, methodical way,
                        interested in nothing but his books, which came more and more to run along
                        the line of mathematics.
                    The fall of eighteen hundred and sixty came, and together William and I went
                        to Annapolis. But he had no relish for warships and the sea, except to
                        figure about the waves and how the cannons were made. We were much alone as
                        before; Waldon came around  very seldom, for
                        he despised the indifference of his brother concerning the conflict between
                        the North and South; he was every day growing hotter and more anxious to
                        fight, but he had to hold his peace, for the Naval Academy was Northern in
                        sentiment.
                    On April fourteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, Fort Sumter surrendered,
                        and in May it was announced that the Naval Academy was to be removed to
                        Newport, Rhode Island, away from where the greater part of the war must
                        inevitably be waged; the three upper classes were to be detached and ordered
                        to sea to fight against the South. The Academy was in a turmoil the morning
                        this announcement was made. We had  just heard
                        of it; I was in our rooms cleaning, and my master sat, as usual, at his
                        table with papers before him on which were curves and lines and hordes of
                        figures, when the door flew open and in walked Waldon in full uniform, his
                        sword at his side. His face showed a mingling of feverish rejoicing and
                        rage.
                    "Where's your master, nigger?"
                    "At the table, sir," I said.
                    He went up to his brother.
                    "Be ready to leave with me to-night. The time has come; we'll show these
                        nigger-lovers their business!"
                    "Leave?" repeated my master, slowly, as if to ask what for.
                    "Haven't you heard that the Academy  is going
                        North? Why don't you open your eyes and ears?" roared Waldon.
                    "I have heard it," answered William.
                    "And you mean to go North with it?"
                    "Yes, what does the war concern—"
                    But before my master finished, Waldon—his face crimson with
                        smothered rage—had drawn his sword.
                    "You pale, traitorous pup, I'd rather see you dead!" and he thrust at his
                        brother's head. My master dodged the point, which I caught in my arm trying
                        to ward it off. In an instant I raised a chair, intending to knock out
                        Waldon's brains, but he ran to the door, turned and shouted: "Traitor!" and
                        was gone.
                    
                    In May we followed the Academy to Newport.
                    My master used occasionally to receive letters from his father, but after
                        Waldon left, the father did not write any more. He was doubtless enraged at
                        the indifference of his younger son, which was perhaps one of the
                        disappointments of his life; he had intended that his sons should be like
                        himself in their belief and in their love for the South; he had intended
                        that they should be great soldiers. In one of them, at least, he now saw
                        that this would never be. He himself had cast his lot with Stonewall
                        Jackson; had fought at Bull Run; marched through the Shenandoah Valley
                        toward Washington as a Lieutenant-Colonel; assisted in the seizure  of Harper's Ferry, and was killed at
                        Chancellorsville, May second, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, on the same
                        day that Stonewall Jackson himself fell. His body was never found.
                    In the spring of eighteen hundred and sixty-five we received word that Waldon
                        had been wounded and lay very low at the old plantation. In the latter part
                        of April we returned to the old homestead which I had given up hope of ever
                        seeing again. Waldon had lost his left arm, and was just recovering from a
                        fever which had seized him in the Chickahominy Swamp.
                    Everything on the plantation that was capable of destruction had been
                        destroyed by the armies continually fighting or  marching through the Valley. The houses and barns had been burned, the
                        fences were down, the slaves were gone; nothing remained as it had been but
                        the two solitary tombstones of the grandfather and the mother on the bank of
                        the Shenandoah. The armies had been fighting the living; the dead were not
                        disturbed.
                    Waldon would have very little to do with us, though it was he who had sent
                        for us, but he had not been responsible for our information concerning the
                        condition in which the arbitraments of war had left him. He had sent for my
                        master in order to settle the estate, which was quickly done, there being
                        little left to settle.
                    
                    The almost enormous fortune of Abraham Starr had fallen with the fate of the
                        Confederacy, and had the father lived through the war, there doubtless would
                        have been nothing left, such was his devotion to the cause for which he had
                        died. The two brothers received about thirty thousand dollars each.
                    The last words I heard Waldon say to my master, as he (for it was destined
                        that I was to return) left forever the banks of the Shenandoah, the Valley
                        and the mountains of our childhood, were: "I hope we shall never need to
                        meet again." And as far as I know they never did meet again in this world.
                        The war which prostrated the nation had taken away William's mother and
                        father, nearly all his  fortune, and had made
                        more than a stranger of his only brother—should I say an enemy?
                    In the fall of eighteen hundred and sixty-five, a few days before our
                        birthday, we left the South, not to return in many years. We went to New
                        Haven, where my master entered Yale as an irregular student; I do not think
                        his name was registered at first; he was only interested in mathematics, and
                        attended only such classes and did such work as he wished. The first night
                        that we were situated in our new quarters my master called me into his room.
                        He was sitting at his table with the accustomed marked papers and open
                        books, more like a man in middle life than a boy of twenty.
                    
                    "Blanchard," he began, "I had forgotten to tell you. Do you know that you are
                        free now?"
                    I said nothing; I did not understand, and he went on:
                    "You need not stay with me any longer; you may do as you like now; go where
                        you please. I will give you money to start with."
                    I was tottering with fear; it was one of the darkest moments of my life.
                        "Master William, you don't want me any more then?" I said, wishing I had
                        died in the war.
                    He only answered: "You are free."
                    I told him that I did not want to leave him; that if I was too expensive I
                        would find work, but leave him I could not; if  I had to do so, I did not wish to live.
                    "Then, Blanchard," he said, "you stay with me of your own free will?"
                    "Yes, Master William, yes," I answered, "of my own free will, if you will let
                        me."
                    "Very well, Blanchard, then we shall stay together as before, but after this
                        call me only William. I am no longer your master."
                    That was all that night. After that I always called him
                        "William"—except twice—it was his wish.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER ELEVEN
                    The next year he decided to become a regular student, and in eighteen hundred
                        and seventy he took his degree at Yale. From there we went to Germany, where
                        William entered the University of Berlin. He had become an accomplished
                        German scholar, but it was all for the sake of the mathematics. In eighteen
                        hundred and seventy-three he took a doctor's degree at that University, and
                        for the next five years we roamed about Europe, visiting, principally, seats
                        of learning—Cambridge, London, Edinburgh, Paris, Kiel, Jena,
                        Königsberg and Vienna—where William 
                        would bury himself for weeks and months in the great libraries.
                    During all these years he was the same person. If there was any change in him
                        it was that he was even more himself; that is, he became still more
                        studious, silent and unknown to me. His disposition toward me seemed
                        unchanged, but there were often periods during which he said so little that
                        the state of his mind was as unknown to me as that of a person whom I seldom
                        or never saw. There were days that not a word passed between us.
                    He used to mark with a blue pencil those papers which I was to destroy when
                        cleaning his study; everything was so methodically arranged that it was not
                             necessary for us to speak to each other
                        for weeks. Sometimes when we were out walking he would talk a little, but it
                        was always as if his mind were on his work. His sentences were never long
                        nor involved, but short and to the point, and spoken as if his mind had
                        already left the thought and gone on or back to some constant
                        theme—what, I did not know.
                    I caught him, too, occasionally talking to himself, as once, when we were
                        walking leisurely along, he said in a kind of undertone: "It must be; it
                        must be so." When I asked him if he had addressed me, he looked up,
                        apparently unconscious that he had spoken. He was not an imaginative
                        dreamer—he  was not a dreamer at
                        all—his abstraction was due to something else.
                    One evening about four o'clock, when we lived in Jena, a university town not
                        far from Leipsic, and where I was somewhat of a curiosity to the natives,
                        our daily walk led us down a narrow street occupied by small tradesmen. We
                        stopped at a little shop with a dirty little show-window full of rat traps,
                        dog collars, chains and the like.
                    William bought a bird cage.
                    A few days after I had carried the cage to our rooms an old lady called and
                        asked for Herr Wittman. When William came some
                        negotiations took place, after which the lady put a bird into our cage.
                    "How much food ought it to have a  day?" asked
                        my master—of course, in German.
                    "Oh! little or nothing," said the old lady; "just as it pleases you."
                    "That was not what I asked. How much ought it to have a day
                        to keep in good health—exactly."
                    "Oh exactly!" repeated the old lady; "well that would be about a thimbleful
                        of seed."
                    When we were alone again my master commanded me to feed the bird the quantity
                        suggested at eleven o'clock every night.
                    "At eleven," I repeated, wishing to be sure that I had not misunderstood, for
                        it seemed a strange time to feed a bird; and I was wondering, too, whether
                        my  master was getting into the habits of an
                        old bachelor.
                    "At eleven, exactly," he answered, with emphasis on the last word.
                    Our lives went on as before, excepting the changes the bird made, which
                        happened not to be very slight. I asked once how soon we were going to leave
                        Jena.
                    "In about two months. We should be gone now but for the bird," answered
                        William.
                    About a week after the bird came I was directed to feed it exactly a
                        half-hour earlier every day, with an emphasis again on the "exactly." I
                        carried out my master's command; the first night thereafter I fed the bird
                        at 10:30, the next night at 10, the next at 9:30, the next at 9, and  so on—at 8:30, 8, 7:30, 7, 6:30,
                        6—always a half-hour earlier every day, so that I was soon feeding
                        the bird in the afternoon, then in the morning, then in the early morning,
                        then midnight, and in forty-eight days at eleven o'clock again, the time at
                        which I had started.
                    On the night of the forty-eighth day, as it struck eleven, I walked into the
                        room where we kept the bird, to feed it, and found William standing before
                        the cage, looking intently at the little animal as it flitted about waiting
                        for its food. He stood motionless for at least ten minutes and watched the
                        bird eat; then, with something of a look of disappointment in his face, he
                        turned and walked away.
                    "William," I asked, "what shall I do  about
                        feeding the bird after this? Shall I continue as usual? I believe it has
                        become used to being fed a half-hour earlier every day, for of late it is
                        generally awake and waiting for me, though it has already had its head under
                        its wing for the night."
                    "You need not feed it again," was my master's answer.
                    That night I heard him walk the floor into the deep hours of the morning.
                    The next day the old lady came and took the bird away. At about ten o'clock
                        that night William called me into his room and asked me to repeat what I had
                        said the night before, concerning the bird becoming used to being fed a
                        half-hour earlier every day. As I repeated what I had said, his face became
                        almost radiant.  He took down from the shelves
                        a blue-covered book and began to write on the first page.
                    In less than a week we boarded the good ship Thuringia at Hamburg for our
                        homeward voyage to America. This was the year eighteen hundred and
                        seventy-eight—in the summer. On landing at New York we went
                        directly to the University of Virginia, where in September William became
                        assistant professor of mathematics.
                    Until then he had given me almost daily instructions in some subject or
                        other, excepting during those taciturn periods when he would only direct my
                        reading. Although a man of very few words, he had taught me much during  these years, directed me to many books, and
                        told me many things; for besides being his servant, I was in a manner his
                        companion also. It was recreation to him, he said; which may account for the
                        fact that he never taught me higher mathematics nor science. We were at this
                        time reading the Odes of Horace. But now all this stopped, his time being
                        entirely taken up by his classes and in study.
                    From the time of the bird experience in Jena, he now and then had me feed
                        pigeons, chloroform dogs, and do various other things to domestic animals
                        —all had to be done in a methodical way, with great exactness in
                        regard to time. The outcome of some of the experiments elicited expressions
                        of approbation from  William, while over
                        others he mumbled despairingly. Some of the animals died during our
                        experimenting, others became lame and some were turned loose unaffected. We
                        never used any drugs except chloroform, and our only instrument was the
                        clock—exact time measurements.
                    After every experiment the accustomed blue book was taken from the shelf and
                        written in. I several times wished to ask what all this was for
                        —what it all meant—but I knew my place and said nothing; I
                        knew, too, from William's manner, that any answer I might have received
                        would have been unsatisfactory, for it did not seem entirely clear to him,
                        but that he had been upon  the scent of
                        something during these years was evident.
                    I had my eyes opened one day—this was during our last year at the
                        University of Virginia. I had for some weeks been chloroforming a stout
                        little rat-terrier fifteen minutes earlier every day. I had chloroformed him
                        first at six o'clock in the evening, next day at five-forty-five, next at
                        five-thirty, and so on. The narcotic was very lightly administered, and
                        calculated only to keep him in a doze until his natural time of sleeping
                        came on.
                    I had been careful, according to the instructions of William, not to allow
                        the dog to awaken between his artificial and natural sleep; I had, also
                        according to instructions, placed an alarm clock in the kennel  set at four in the morning; so that whether
                        the terrier had finished his snooze or not, he was compelled to awaken. It
                        was my business then to keep him awake until the time of chloroforming came
                        again, which was fifteen minutes earlier than the day before.
                    After I had been at this strange and apparently insane work for about two
                        weeks I noticed that the dog became more and more susceptible to the
                        chloroform, going to sleep more quickly on lighter applications. On the
                        twenty-fourth day I was, according to the rule, to administer the narcotic
                        at exactly twelve o'clock, noon. When I had left the animal at eleven
                        forty-five to prepare the chloroform, he was wide awake, when I returned  he was fast asleep: he had gone to sleep at
                        the regular time—fifteen minutes earlier than the day
                        before—without the narcotic. Had this merely happened by accident,
                        or—or what? William was just then returning from the university. I
                        told him of the circumstance, and asked whether I should, nevertheless,
                        administer the chloroform. Again there was some expression of brightness in
                        his countenance as he said, "yes," and turned away.
                    The next day the same thing happened, and that night, March sixteenth,
                        eighteen hundred and eighty-one, I again saw the blue book on the table
                        before my master. I remember the date for several reasons, the most
                        important of which is that just a week later the house in which  we lived caught fire, and the terrier was
                        burned to death.
                    In the blue-covered blankbook, under date of March sixteenth, eighteen
                        hundred eighty-one, appears the following:
                    Experiment 21, black rat-terrier. The time rhythm. Twenty-fifth day of
                        experimentation. Yesterday the arithmetical progression of the time rhythm
                        of fifteen minutes per day became self-active. The same to-day. For
                        Principle, see pages 20, 24, 28. Other experiments, pages 46, 52, 75, 89,
                        90, 92.
                    Page 20: THE MATHEMATICAL PRINCIPLE IN LIFE.—It is folly to suppose
                        that the principles of mathematics bind all the  universe excepting life. If a part of the world obeys its principles, so
                        must all.
                    Page 24: ARITHMETIC AND TIME.—Arithmetic is dealing in time as
                        Geometry is in space. Thus counting is only giving different intervals of
                        time to the units, as,
                        1—1—1—1—1—1—1—.
                        But instead of saying,
                        1—1—1—1—1—1—1, in
                        order to know the number of time intervals, different names are given the
                        units as they succeed, as,
                        I—2—3—4—5—6—7.
                        Arithmetic is, therefore, a dealing in time. Thus an experiment in time is
                        one in arithmetic—the lowest form of the mathematical principle.
                        With the  bodily organism we can make such
                        temporal—therefore arithmetical—experimentations.*
                        
                            *
                            Since compiling this sketch related by my friend Judge Nutt, I have
                                been informed by Professor Josiah Royce of Harvard University that
                                an almost identical passage (excepting the last two sentences, in
                                which Professor Whitmore carried life into a new and hitherto
                                unexplored realm—mathematics) may be found in Dr. Paul
                                Deussen's Die Elemente der Metaphysik, recently
                                translated by M. C. Duff (Sec. Eng. Ed., p. 38). The first edition
                                of this work appeared in Germany in 1877, one year before Professor
                                Whitmore left Jena for America. But whether or not the first edition
                                contained this passage I have not been able to ascertain, and if it
                                did, whether it came under the notice of Professor Whitmore will
                                perhaps never be known. The last I heard of Dr. Paul Deussen was
                                that he was at the University of Kiel, but whether he was there
                                between 1870 and 1878, during which years Professor Whitmore and
                                Blanchard roamed about the universities of Europe, Kiel among them,
                                I do not know. It is not altogether improbable that these two men
                                met during those years. But from which one the idea emanated that
                                the science of arithmetic is founded upon the a-priority of
                                time—if it emanated from either—is also unknown to
                                me. Yet from what Blanchard has left us concerning this wonderful
                                man it is reasonable to believe that he had been for some time
                                before 1877 revolving the proposition that from the a-priority of
                                time, life itself could be shown to be bound hard and fast by the
                                principles of the lowest mathematical science,
                                arithmetic.—M. E.
                        
                    
                    Page 28: THE ORGANISM AND THE TIME PROGRESSION.—In experiments 21,
                        46, 52, 75, 89, 90, 92, organisms have come into the habit of doing things
                        at a  different time every day; these
                        different times have progressed regularly an exact number of minutes every
                        day; thus showing that the organism observes arithmetical
                        progression—the lowest form of the mathematical principle.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER TWELVE
                    In January, eighteen hundred and eighty-three, my master received a call to
                        the chair of mathematics in Rose Polytechnic Institute, Terre Haute,
                        Indiana. We arrived the next month and took rooms at the Terre Haute House,
                        in the northwest corner of the second floor. But it being much too noisy
                        there for my master—the street being below our west
                        windows—we removed to a suite of rooms in the northeast corner of
                        the same floor.
                    There were only three or four persons who ever came to see my master, and
                        they called but seldom. President Thompson  of
                        the Institute was the most frequent visitor; he came five or six times the
                        year before his death. My master never called on any one. He had, it seemed
                        to me, only one unnecessary habit. Every morning, directly after breakfast,
                        he went to the drug store across the street and bought a cigar, returned to
                        the rooms and smoked for about fifteen minutes. No matter what happened, he
                        had this one cigar every day, and that immediately after his first meal.
                    One evening in January, eighteen hundred and eighty-four, about ten months
                        before President Thompson died, he called on my master. I heard them talking
                        until late into the night. About the time I thought the fire must be low I
                        went into  the room where they were sitting to
                        put some coal on the grate, when I overheard the following:
                    ". . . time is of the individual body and mind itself then?" asked President
                        Thompson. [I did not hear the first part of his sentence.]
                    "What else could it be?" replied my master in his shallow monotone. "We do
                        not see time. We do not hear time. We do not smell time. We do not taste
                        time. We do not feel time. Yet who will deny that time exists? If we do not
                        get it through the senses, then it is not in the outer world; then it must
                        be a something inherent in us—an innate or inborn idea."*
                        
                            *
                            The a-priority of time. This notion of time was first developed by
                                Kant, in his Kritik der reinen
                                Vernunft.—M. E.
                        
                    
                    
                    "Ah!" said President Thompson, "now the point is clearer. Time being a thing
                        not of the outer world, but existing only in the mind, and arithmetic being
                        concerned only with time, the mind of the individual must of necessity obey
                        arithmetical principles."
                    "That is exactly what I claim," said my master.
                    "But," continued President Thompson, "life is so complex that it will be
                        difficult to discern the mind's obedience to arithmetical progressions."
                    "That is the trouble," said my master. "But it can be overcome."
                    "How on earth?" asked President Thompson, looking in wonderment at
                        William.
                    
                    "In this way. If the body and mind are subjected to some comparatively simple
                        and regular activities, their obedience to arithmetical progressions will
                        appear, that is, if I am right that life must obey the principles of
                        mathematics and is mathematically lawful the same as the physical
                        universe."
                    I should have liked to hear more, but it was not my business, and I went out.
                        I turned that statement over and over again in my mind that night; I could
                        not forget it: "that life must obey the principles of mathematics." What can
                        this mean? I thought. But President Thompson is dead; he is not here to tell
                        what he heard that night, and must have heard on other occasions when they
                        were  together; and my master is dead also; I
                        alone am left to tell what little I know.
                    During the spring of eighteen hundred and eighty-four my master kept two
                        pigeons in the study. I don't know what he did with them, but I found both
                        dead in their respective cages just seven days apart.
                    Some time during the vacation—I think in July—I carried my
                        master's resignation to President Thompson's home.
                    "Are we going to leave, William?" I asked, a few days after.
                    "No. I must have all my time," was all that he said.
                    About September tenth two events took place which I shall relate. The first
                        was that I was ordered to buy a canary bird, and place it in a cage in the
                        study; the  second was that my master retired
                        that night at twelve o'clock sharp. He had ordered me to awaken him by
                        pounding on the door at eight o'clock the next morning; which I did. From
                        that day on he retired every night exactly at twelve o'clock, and had me
                        awaken him at eight.
                    This was quite a change in his habits of life, for as long as I can
                        remember—and that is all his life—he had never retired at
                        any regular time, not even when he was a child, long before we left the
                        plantation for the academy at Fredericksburg; and his time of arising had
                        been also always more or less irregular. I remember that I thought he must
                        be experimenting on the canary bird; and I remember also that I felt sorry
                        he  had not allowed me to make the
                        experiments, as I had done before. I felt that I had perhaps made some
                        mistake; that he didn't trust me any longer.
                    Our birthday was September nineteenth. Since September tenth my master had
                        retired every night at twelve o'clock, and was up the next morning at eight.
                        On this day—September nineteenth—he commanded me to awaken
                        him the next morning, September twentieth—mark the date—at
                        exactly ten minutes past eight.
                    I did as I had been ordered, and didn't think anything about the extra ten
                        minutes, except that perhaps he felt he could afford a little more sleep
                        that morning. But when on that day he ordered me to  awaken him the next morning—September
                        twenty-first—at exactly twenty minutes past eight, I began to think
                        a bit. But I dropped the matter when it occurred to me that he was
                        undoubtedly experimenting on the canary, as we had often done before. That
                        night he ordered me to awaken him the next day—which was the third
                        morning, September twenty-second—at exactly thirty minutes past
                        eight.
                    After I had set the alarm clock that night and retired, the thought struck me
                        that my master's arising ten minutes later every day could not be on account
                        of the bird; for our experiments with all the animals—al at least
                        excepting the last two, which I had found dead in the cages,  and of which I knew nothing—had gone
                        the other way, that is, the time had become earlier and earlier, instead of
                        later and later; the bird at Jena had been fed earlier, and so it had been
                        with all our experiments.
                    After I had tossed in bed for some time, thinking of an explanation for what
                        as yet I could not understand, it occurred to me that William perhaps had
                        turned the train of experimentation, and would do the feeding—or
                        whatever he was doing to the bird—ten minutes later every day,
                        instead of earlier, as we had done heretofore. But this I found, after a
                        little more thought, to be no explanation at all. If he wished to attend to
                        the bird at a given time later  every day it
                        was not at all necessary for him to arise later: if he wished to feed the
                        bird at eight, eight-ten, eight-twenty, eight-thirty, it was not necessary
                        for him to sleep until those times.
                    One thing was clear now. He was experimenting on himself.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER THIRTEEN
                    Things had been going on in this way for nearly two weeks—in bed
                        every night sharp at twelve o'clock, and up the next morning ten minutes
                        later than the morning before. Thus on the eleventh day my master arose at
                        ten minutes before ten. As the dining-hall of the hotel was closed for
                        breakfast exactly at ten, after that morning, September thirtieth, he did
                        not appear for that meal, but had me bring him his lunch; after which he
                        went directly for his cigar.
                    The time which was not occupied in  sleeping
                        was spent in reading, writing and in light bodily exercise.
                    A difficulty soon arose. As the days were being gradually converted into
                        nights, my master found some difficulty in going to sleep. Up to the time he
                        slept ten hours, everything had gone smoothly; he had found no difficulty
                        whatever at twelve o'clock in dropping off into a heavy slumber. But now,
                        after the twelfth day, this obstacle arose. As yet he had said not a word to
                        me about the entire matter, except to give the directions concerning the
                        awakening times. I knew though that this difficulty had arisen; I could hear
                        him rolling in his bed at night.
                    One morning—it was the morning that 
                        he arose at twenty minutes after ten—I was sitting in my room,
                        thinking about what had been taking place with my master during the last
                        fourteen days, and how strange everything was. He had, indeed, always been
                        strange; there had been a side of his life which I had never
                        understood—which I had never hoped to understand.
                    In our younger days he had told me once that this was natural from the
                        difference in our education and experience; that we were occupied with
                        different thoughts and that things had different meanings to us, that even
                        words did not mean the same to us. I remember how unsatisfactory his
                        explanation had been—how little, indeed, it had explained  to me. I was revolving these things in my
                        mind when my master called me into the study. He had just finished his
                        cigar, and the few empty breakfast dishes were still standing on the
                        table.
                    "Blanchard," he said in the same monotone, but there was something of anxiety
                        in his colorless face—"Blanchard, I must have more of your
                        assistance. Go to a drug store where you are not known, for it is nobody's
                        business, and buy ten grains of morphine and a hypodermic needle." With this
                        he drew some money from his pocket, gave it to me, and waited for me to
                        leave.
                    I knew what morphine was, but had not the least idea what a hypodermic needle
                        could be. And then, why go where  I was not
                        known? Yet what he said about its being "nobody's business" only reminded me
                        how he disliked public curiosity, which would naturally be aroused about him
                        if I purchased the articles where I was known to be his attendant. I went to
                        a drug store in the northern part of the city, and was back in a short
                        time.
                    "That is all," he said, and I left the room.
                    That was a bitter errand for me. I had asked the drug store clerk whether
                        that amount of morphine was deadly, and he had laughed and said that it
                        would kill two or three men.
                    I continued, as usual, to awaken my master ten minutes later every day. The
                             time at which he arose went past
                        eleven—past twelve—near to one o'clock in the afternoon.
                        "Is this never going to end?" I asked myself. "What will be the outcome?" It
                        now flashed upon me what the outcome must be. I knew
                        nothing about science and know nothing yet (he had never taught me); but if
                        he slept ten minutes later every day and forced himself to sleep, as he must
                        now be doing, there would come a time when he would not awake at
                        all—when he would sleep always, for he was still retiring sharp at
                        twelve and continued to do so.
                    He called me into the study again; it was late at night, about the middle of
                        October. When I entered he was standing near the table.
                    
                    "Come here, Blanchard," he said.
                    I approached the table, on which stood nothing but a small wine glass,
                        containing a very small quantity of liquid; it was the morphine that I had
                        purchased at the drug store; it had been dissolved.
                    Drawing from the wine glass a small syringe with a very fine point, he said:
                        "Take this at four o'clock to-morrow morning, thrust the point just under
                        the skin any place on my body which is exposed, and inject the
                        contents."
                    "My God! Master William—," but before I could finish there was an
                        expression in his face which I had never seen before; it was of utter
                        disappointment, of disgust, as if he almost hated me. Though I was not his
                        slave, he was  as much as ever my master. Save
                        him nobody on earth was anything to me, or I anything to anybody else; and
                        though he never said much and had no expression in his voice, he had always
                        had a kind and sympathetic heart. I begged him not to go farther in this
                        affair, not to have me do what he had commanded. He did not say a word, but
                        with every sentence I uttered his face grew more pallid and marked with
                        furrows of contempt. I can see him yet as he stood there! I had rather he
                        had beaten me. I left the study nearly crazed with hatred of myself and
                        anxiety for my master. He hated me now; why should I not hate myself? It was
                        as if he had asked me to kill him, and because of my desire to save  his life he had turned against me. What right
                        had I, his servant, to interfere with his plans? had he not taught me? could
                        he not see through my simple mind? did I not owe him, above all, obedience?
                        Just at that moment some one knocked at one of the doors; a small man
                        hurried into the drawing-room, then into the study, and shouted something to
                        my master.
                    I saw now that I had been loud in my remonstrances, and that this man must
                        have thought we had been quarreling and fighting. Before I could collect
                        myself, and find out what was going on between the man and my master, the
                        former had gone, and William had closed the study door.
                    That night was like an age to me. I  knew well
                        enough, from my master's past life, how he disliked a public demonstration
                        of any kind, and how vulgar his own affairs seemed to him when other people
                        meddled with them; then, too, I had aroused him against me; I had offended
                        him who had saved me from the travails of slavery, had taught me, had given
                        me as good a life through all these years as he had known himself, and had
                        shown me all the sympathy that he was capable of; then came the thought of
                        my awful duty for the night! These things swam and swarmed through my head,
                        as one by one the hours of the night wearily wore on. At last four o'clock
                        came; the night began to gray in the east; a slight wind was astir in the
                        street, rustling the withered  leaves, and
                        like a thief I stole into my master's room. He was lying on his right side
                        fast alseep. His body was as straight as a corpse, and his face in the dark
                        seemed still to wear that awful expression. There was nowhere I could inject
                        the morphine but in the neck. That was the only place exposed except the
                        face. I hesitated. His eyes seemed to open, and his features to distort and
                        wrinkle with a grimace that overawed and that commanded me. I pricked the
                        skin and forced the morphine into my master's neck. The flesh flinched and
                        the temples quivered as I withdrew the needle. It was done! I went trembling
                        to my room and waited for the dawn.
                    
                    
                    
                    That day my master arose at ten minutes before one.
                    The chambermaids had been complaining of late because they were not allowed
                        to enter our rooms in the morning, but were delayed with their work on our
                        account until the afternoon. When on this same day I was able to approach my
                        master I told him of these complaints.
                    "From now on," he answered, "allow no one to enter the rooms; you can attend
                        to them." After a moment he continued, looking straight into my eyes,
                        "Blanchard, did you inject the morphine at the hour I told you?"
                    I was surprised at this. "Yes," I said.
                    "Where?"
                    I indicated the spot.
                    
                    He ran his fingers over his neck, and stopping at the little wound the needle
                        had made, said, to my horror: "The same at the same hour to-morrow," and
                        motioned me to go.
                    I obeyed this ghastly command not only the next morning, but for many
                        mornings after that, until his neck was spotted with little wounds from the
                        hypodermic needle. It was his wish. He was my master.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER FOURTEEN
                    This strange business ran on as before, excepting that while it was
                        explaining itself, it yet became stranger still. Of late when I pounded on
                        the door for my master to arise, he would answer immediately—almost
                        on the second. One day the time slipped me, I looked at the clock and found
                        that I was two minutes late. As I hurried toward the door to give the usual
                        rap I heard the curtain fly up within—as was usual immediately
                        after his arising, for the darkness of the room and his sleep were always
                        kept in exact coexistence. "Never mind, you are two minutes  late," came from his room in the same
                        monotone.
                    "Yes," I answered, "two minutes." I was astounded at this. He had no watch
                        nor clock in his room; there were no bells nor whistles, for it was between
                        hours; there was nothing that I knew of from which he could have received
                        his information concerning the exact hour and minute of the day.
                    The time finally came when my master slept till ten minutes before three in
                        the afternoon. He was unable, therefore, after October
                        thirtieth—just thirty days after he ate his last breakfast in the
                        dining-hall of the hotel—to take his lunch there; for three o'clock
                        was the latest hour that lunch was served, and on the  next day he would arise at exactly that time. After that day,
                        therefore, I brought this meal to his room.
                    From the first night of the morphine injection I slept very
                        little—not that I had not plenty of time for sleep, for I had
                        scarcely anything to do, but I began at times to distrust my own mind; this
                        strange business was continually in my thoughts; what was to be the end? I
                        was alone more than ever before, and sat for hours, thinking.
                    The next thing in this chain of events was that my master instructed me one
                        day not to rap at his door at the awakening time, as I had been doing, but
                        to come into his room noiselessly, and if he did not awaken of his own
                        accord at the exact  time, I should then
                        arouse him, but not till then. After this, therefore, I
                        did not shut the door after the morphine injection, for it was a spring
                        lock, but left it open that I might enter at the arising time. What
                        capability of surprise was left in me was aroused, when within a few seconds
                        of the exact time, his body would begin to move and his eyes to open. As I
                        would go out, he would arise and flip up the curtain as usual.
                    About this time he sent me with a letter to President Thompson, who was then
                        lying sick at his residence. I do not know what that letter contained.
                    [The following is the letter which was found among the papers and
                        correspondence of the late President Thompson 
                        shortly after Professor Whitmore's death, and is undoubtedly the one here
                        referred to by Blanchard:
                    "President Thompson.
                    Dear Sir: For the last few days the time rhythm has become established in me.
                        The bird is doing well—it is following. The utter darkness of the
                        room overcomes the difficulty we had spoken of.
                    Blanchard tells me he read in the evening paper that you are sick. I hope it
                        is nothing serious.
                    Nov. 1, 1884. W. Whitmore."
                    The darkness of the room referred to here is perhaps the method Professor
                        Whitmore employed in putting the bird to sleep.]
                    Not long after that time President Thompson died. My master did not, of  course, attend the funeral, for at that time
                        I believe he was arising at about six in the evening.
                    On November twenty-ninth, thirty days after his last lunch in the dininghall
                        of the hotel, he arose at ten minutes before eight, night, and took his last
                        dinner there. After that date I brought this meal to him from Sage's
                        restaurant.
                    It was a cold, keen night about the middle of December; a thick, tightly
                        trampled snow was on the ground, the stars shone clear, and the moonlight
                        gave the night the brightness of dawn. It was approaching the hour of
                        eleven. I was sitting in my room, which was only lighted by the flicker of
                        the grate fire, while my master ate his night meal. A  gentleman, whom I thought and afterwards learned to be Judge
                        Nutt, had called that evening about eight o'clock to see my master. I had
                        not admitted him; I had been somewhat bewildered, for no one had called
                        since my master began his strange life, and I had not known therefore what
                        excuses to make—what to say. That my master was not to be awakened,
                        I knew better than anything else. I was thinking over the matter, trying to
                        recall what I had said to Judge Nutt and wondering what he would think, when
                        my door opened and William entered buttoned up to the neck in his
                        overcoat.
                    "Are you going out, William?"
                    "Yes," he replied.
                    
                    "Shall I go along?"
                    "Yes," and he stood waiting.
                    I wrapped up warm and followed my master. The night was still, but the bitter
                        cold nipped our faces as we moved along the deserted streets. Now and then
                        merry sleigh bells hurried by and died away in the distance. We had walked
                        for several squares in utter silence, when presently my master said:
                        "Blanchard, at what time do I arise to-morrow?"
                    "At twenty minutes past ten, night," I answered.
                    "Twenty minutes past ten, night," he repeated slowly. "The end is drawing
                        near."
                    "Oh, William! what end?" I cried.
                    This manifestation of feeling displeased  him;
                        he did not answer, but walked on as if he had not heard me. The court house
                        clock tolled the hour of eleven.
                    "To-morrow will be the last night of the morphine," he mumbled.
                    "Thank God!" I said to myself.
                    "To-morrow," he continued, "you will buy some chloroform; and come to me as
                        usual, at four o'clock in the morning; if I stir, saturate a bit of cotton
                        and hold it under my nostrils for a short time, until I am perfectly quiet
                        again. Come again every hour after that, and if I stir, do the same. Do you
                        understand, Blanchard?"
                    Chloroform! I would as soon he had told me to thurst a dagger into his
                        breast.  "Do you understand, Blanchard? You do
                        not answer."
                    We were in the shadow of Centenary Church. Why did I not answer? Why did I
                        not speak what was in my mind? "William," I burst out finally, "you must
                        explain or I will go no farther!"
                    "You are foolish, Blanchard; it will soon be over, and then I shall have
                        fulfilled the purpose of my life," came forth in the dispassionate monotone.
                        "Yet, you are right," he continued, after a pause, "the time has come. I shall explain."
                    We walked for some distance before he began again. I hardly knew how cold I
                        was, but my master seemed secretly to revel in the sharpness of the chill
                        midnight air. "I shall explain," reverberated 
                        in my ears as we walked silently along. "At last," I thought, "the time has
                        indeed come."
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER FIFTEEN
                    "Listen. It is the arithmetical time rhythm in human life,"
                        he began. "If I am right, at twelve o'clock night December twenty-fourth I
                        shall not awake, but continue to sleep, the time having arrived at which I
                        should both awake and go to sleep again at the same identical instant. If I
                        am right I shall not awake at all, but continue to sleep until the body dies
                        of starvation or other natural causes. But it will not come to that.
                    "On that night, December twenty-fourth, at a little before twelve, you will
                             come noiselessly into my room, light the
                        gas, observe the conduct of the bird, then sit beside my bed. If I awake at
                        twelve, I am wrong; then life is exempt from the principles of mathematics,
                        which bind the rest of the universe, then I am in a sea of inconsistencies
                        without end. But I am not wrong, I shall not awake. I shall sleep on and on forever, if not aroused. An
                        hour later, at one o'clock, awake me.
                    "Do you understand, Blanchard?"
                    I believe I said that I did.
                    "After that we shall go home."
                    "Home! where?" I thought, but did not speak.
                    "To the Shenandoah, Blanchard, to the Shenandoah," he mysteriously answered
                             my thoughts. "There I shall write of
                        these things."
                    We were soon on our way back to the hotel; and although it was a sharp, cold
                        night without, I felt cheerful and glad within. "Back to the Shenandoah," I
                        thought, "where the mountains and vallies and river are, and all this
                        strange business over;" and in my heart I was happy.
                    That night I carried a letter for my master to Judge Nutt's office. I do not
                        know what that letter contained, nor why my master wished me to take it at
                        such an hour, unless it was to avoid the judge.
                    [This, it will be remembered, was the will.]
                    The next morning I bought the chloroform,  and
                        followed my master's instructions exactly. I had no more than got my room in
                        order on that same morning when Judge Nutt called and insisted on seeing my
                        master; he was determined, and it was with difficulty that I kept him from
                        breaking the spell of William's sleep, which would have destroyed his entire
                        plan. When the judge returned that night at the hour I had told him my
                        master would be awake, he was not satisfied with the note William had
                        written for him, but forced his way into the study; and they were together
                        for a few minutes. What took place between them I do not know; but when I
                        saw my master a short time after Judge Nutt left, he was very nervous and
                        feared that  such another visit would entirely
                        upset his system and destroy his slumbers.
                    Once before December twenty-fourth my master reviewed in a few sentences my
                        duties for that last night, and now I awaited "the end." I counted the hours
                        to that happy one o'clock when I was to arouse him and when all would be
                        over, and after which we should soon be on our way toward the place of our
                        childhood. During the last few days I began to pack our belongings.
                    Now I come to the end. December twenty-fourth came at last. In the morning as
                        usual I returned the dishes of my master's last night's meal to the
                        restaurant. It was a wet, slushy day; the sun shone warm, melting the heavy
                        snow of a  week before; eaves were dripping
                        and roofs steaming. The streets were crowded with people brushing happily by
                        one another in preparation for Christmas; children, old men,
                        women—everybody seemed to be out and cheerful. I too was happy. In
                        the afternoon I bought some fruit for my master to eat that night after the
                        spell of sleep was broken; and on my way to the rooms, I stopped at an
                        uptown railway ticket office and inquired about rates to the South.
                    At nightfall it began to get colder and to freeze; and about seven o'clock,
                        as I was leaving the crowded streets with their brilliantly lighted show
                        windows, a cold wind began to stir. I sat in my room now, waiting, as many
                        others were that night.  I listened at my
                        master's door once every hour; everything was as quiet as death within; but
                        outside it was a blustering night. It was now eleven o'clock. I walked to
                        the window and looked out. The streets were deserted, yet everything was in
                        movement. The flickering lights on the icy sidewalks, gutters and icicled
                        eaves, the silent running shadows on the frozen streets and buildings, and
                        the whining and moaning of the wind, made the night hideous. Soon the last
                        thirty minutes were being slept away; it was approaching the hour of twelve;
                        and now the ten minutes of sleep which my master had accumulated day after
                        day were to induce his body into perpetual sleep. "Will he awaken?" I began
                        to ask myself,  "or must I arouse him at one
                        o'clock?"
                    At a little before twelve o'clock I crept noiselessly into his room and
                        lighted the gas very low. Of a sudden the wind stopped moaning and the night
                        settled still. I waited—it was a minute yet. I sat looking intently
                        at my master's thin, white face; it wore a troubled expression. Slowly, but
                        cutting clearly through the cold night, came the tolls of twelve o'clock
                        from the court house tower.
                    The cover over my master's body began to move, his shoulders drew up, and his
                        face quivered again about the temples and upper lip. He dropped over on his
                        back. "It has failed," something shrieked within me, "he will awaken!"
                        Drawing in  a long breath, his chest and body
                        rose and expanded as if to burst, and his chin bolted against his breast; at
                        the last stroke of the hour he dropped and sank again into the hollow of his
                        bed, and his glassy eyes snapped open, looking toward the ceiling.
                    "It has failed, William!" I cried.
                    He made no answer.
                    "Master William!"
                    He was silent, and as white as the sheets.
                    I grabbed his arm, he did not move; there was no pulse, it had not failed! he
                        would sleep forever! he was dead.
                    The wind moaned again and the lights flickered.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER SIXTEEN
                    My fate is quickly told. The next day I sent a telegram to Waldon; people
                        came and asked questions; and I grew sick with a high fever so that I had to
                        go to bed. I went to a room on the second floor which I knew to be
                        unoccupied. One of the colored men of the hotel stayed with me. About five
                        o'clock in the afternoon he came into the room and told me that my master's
                        will had been found and that everything had been left to me.
                    At seven o'clock he came again and told me that he heard I was to be
                        arrested; he also said that while in my master's  apartments, he had found a bottle of chloroform, a package of
                        white stuff (the morphine), and a syringe, all of which he hid in the covers
                        of my bed. "If they find those things you're gone," he concluded.
                    It grew dark in the room; my fever continued to rage.
                    "What time is it?" I asked.
                    "Ten o'clock," said the man, sitting by the window and looking intently
                        toward the ground.
                    We had no light in the room.
                    "Let us have a light," I said.
                    "No, no!" answered the man, sharply.
                    I thought my head would burst, I was in a delirium; "I have waited long
                        enough, I must have a doctor," I thought.
                    
                    "Send for a doctor," I said.
                    "That is impossible," said the man.
                    "Why?"
                    He made no answer, and seemed to crouch down closer to the window sill and
                        look out more eagerly.
                    "For God's sake get some cold water then, and bathe my head!"
                    "Some men are collecting at the back entrance."
                    "What?" I asked.
                    "Some men are collecting at the back entrance," and with this he grabbed his
                        hat, said he would be back in a moment, locked the door on the outside, and
                        was gone.
                    I arose and looked out the window. There must have been something like a  crowd of a hundred and fifty men below,
                        swarming and jostling noiselessly; some seemed to be looking straight at the
                        window before which I stood; I unconsciously shrank back. I heard somebody
                        running down the hall toward my room, a key was slipped into the door, and
                        in bounded the man who had been staying with me.
                    "They have come to hang you!" he cried in a wild whisper.
                    "What?" I asked.
                    "They have come to hang you!"
                    "Me?"
                    "Yes, you! you must get out of here! they have come to hang
                        you! dress, dress. quick!"
                    I had my clothes on in a minute,  though my
                        head was burning and I tottered under the delirium of the fever. I could now
                        hear the mob stumbling up the back stairs at the west end of the hall; two
                        pistol shots were fired; my companion thrust a mask into my hand, which I
                        immediately put over my face; we ran down to the east end of the hall,
                        climbed down the fire escape and jumped to the ground. It was dark where we
                        landed, and where the men had collected and were still collecting. We could
                        not make our escape, every direction was watched.
                    "Come, come!" said my companion, pulling me along.
                    We ran to where the mob had gathered, and followed the end of the murderous
                             procession up the rear stairs. It was my
                        companion's plan; I was bewildered. I helped that mob of savage men hunt for
                        me, I helped to batter out the windows and tear up the room.
                    "Let's have a light!" shouted a voice—shouted voices—"a
                        light! a light!"
                    "My end has come," I thought. My companion gripped my hand, as a dozen other
                        cowardly murderous voices shouted "No! No!" and mumbled something about
                        recognition. The police appeared, and threatened to fire into the crowd, if
                        we did not disperse. Among the first to move away were my companion and I,
                        the rest followed; and in a few moments all was over, and we were making our
                        way toward the river.
                    
                    It was like a dream, a nightmare. I could feel the cold air on my head and it
                        revived me. When we came to the river, we did not dare to cross by any of
                        the bridges, for part of the mob, my companion said, must have been river
                        people, living in huts and house-boats about the piers. We hid in a lumber
                        pile until the moon went behind a cloud, then ran across the frozen river,
                        the ice bending and cracking under our feet. The moon flashed upon us as we
                        were climbing the bank on the other side, but all was silent. My companion
                        hurried me over fences and through thick brush, and finally lodged me in his
                        sister's hut.
                    I stayed there till I got well; then I went South, down the Wabash. From  city to city I worked my way in disguise,
                        back to the place where my master and I were born. Here it is where I finish
                        this last task of my life. Waldon owns the place now. They do not know me,
                        they say I am crazy. But soon I'll be on the hill where my master lies, and
                        where the good mother and grandfather were laid before the war.
                    It is done. I have told all that I know of the strange life and stranger
                        death of him the world called William Whitmore. Who shall say that it was
                        not all a fearsome riddle.
                    THE END
                
            
        
        
            
            
                A LIST OF RECENT FICTION OF THE BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY
            
            
            
            
            
                A VIVACIOUS ROMANCE OF REVOLUTIONARY DAYS
                
                    ALICE of OLD VINCENNES
                    By MAURICE THOMPSON
                    
                        The Atlanta Consitution says:
                    
                    "Mr. Thompson, whose delightful writings in prose and verse have made his
                        reputation national, has achieved his master stroke of genius in this
                        historical novel of revolutionary days in the West."
                    
                        The Denver Daily News says:
                    
                    "There are three great chapters of fiction: Scott's tournament on Ashby
                        field, General Wallace's chariot race, and now Maurice Thompson's duel scene
                        and the raising of Alice's flag over old Fort Vincennes."
                    
                        The Chicago Times-Herald says:
                    
                    "More original than 'Richard Carvel,' more cohesive than 'To Have and To
                        Hold,' more vital than 'Janice Meredith,' such is Maurice Thompson's superb
                        American romance, 'Alice of Old Vincennes.' It is, in addition, more
                        artistic and spontaneous than any of its rivals."
                    12mo, with five illustrations and a frontispiece in color,
                        all drawn by Mr. F. C. Yohn Price, $1.50
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL HISTORICAL NOVEL
                
                    THE BLACK WOLF'S BREED
                    By HARRIS DICKSON
                    
                        From the Boston Globe:
                    
                    "A vigorous tale of France in the old and new world during the reign of Louis
                        XIV."
                    
                        From the Philadelphia Press:
                    
                    "As delightfully seductive as certain mint-flavored beverages they make down
                        South."
                    
                        From the Los Angeles Herald:
                    
                    "The sword-play is great, even finer than the pictures in 'To Have and To
                        Hold."'
                    
                        From the San Francisco Chronicle:
                    
                    "As fine a piece of sustained adventure as has appeared in recent
                        fiction."
                    
                        From the St. Louis Globe-Democrat:
                    
                    "There is action, vivid description and intensely dramatic situations."
                    
                        From the Indianapolis News:
                    
                    "So full of tender love-making, of gallant fighting, that one regrets it's no
                        longer."
                    Illustrated by C. M. Relyea. Price $1.50
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                THE SUBTLE SPIRIT OF THE SEA
                
                    SWEEPERS OF THE SEA The Story of a Strange Navy
                    By CLAUDE H. WETMORE
                    
                        From the St. Louis Mirror:
                    
                    "The recital of the deeds of the 'Sweepers of the Sea' is a breathless one.
                        The romance is heightened by the realism of the technique of naval warfare,
                        by the sureness and voluminosity of nautical knowledge."
                    
                        From the Buffalo Review:
                    
                    "It rivals Stevenson in its ingenuity of plot and dramatic interest."
                    
                        From the Albany Journal:
                    
                    "There rings the exultant note of tossing billows and a crashing ship."
                    
                        From the Minneapolis Times:
                    
                    "Mr. Wetmore has the genius of Jules Verne and can make the improbable seem
                        the actual. In fact, 'Sweepers of the Sea' comes into the class of important
                        fiction, and as such will be received and read by a discriminating
                        public."
                    Illustrated Price, $1.50
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                A NOVEL OF EARLY NEW YORK
                
                    PATROON VAN VOLKENBERG
                    By HENRY THEW STEPHENSON
                    
                        From the New York Press:
                    
                    "Many will compare 'Patroon Van Volkenberg,' with its dash, style and
                        virility, with 'Richard Carvel,' and in that respect they will be right, as
                        one would compare the strong, sturdy and spreading elm with a slender
                        sapling."
                    The action of this stirring story begins when New York was a little city of
                        less than 5,000 inhabitants.
                    The Governor has forbidden the port to the free traders or pirate ships,
                        which sailed boldly under their own flag; while the Patroon and his merchant
                        colleagues not only traded openly with the buccaneers, but owned and managed
                        such illicit craft. The story of the clash of these conflicting interests
                        and the resulting exciting happenings is absorbing.
                    The atmosphere of the tale is fresh in fiction, the plot is stirring and well
                        knit, and the author is possessed of the ability to write forceful, fragrant
                        English.
                    
                        From the Brooklyn Standard-Union:
                    
                    "The tale is one of vibrant quality. It can not be read at a leisurely pace.
                        It bears the reader through piratical seas and buccaneering adventures,
                        through storm and stress of many sorts, but it lands him safely, and leads
                        him to peace."
                    12mo, Illustrated in color by C. M. Relyea Price,
                        $1.50
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                "A NOVEL THAT'S WORTH WHILE"
                
                    The REDEMPTION of DAVID CORSON
                    By CHARLES FREDERIC GOSS
                    A Mid-century American Novel of Intense Power and
                        Interest
                    
                        The Interior says:
                    
                    "This is a book that is worth while. Though it tells of weakness and
                        wickedness, of love and license, of revenge and remorse in an intensely
                        interesting way, yet it is above all else a clean and pure story. No one can
                        read it and honestly ask 'what's the use."'
                    
                        Nowell Dwight Hillis, Pastor of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn,
                            says:
                    
                    "'The Redemption of David Corson' strikes a strong, healthy, buoyant
                        note."
                    
                        Dr. F. W. Gunsaulus, President Armour Institute, says:
                    
                    "Mr. Goss writes with the truthfulness of light. He has told a story in which
                        the fact of sin is illuminated with the utmost truthfulness and the fact of
                        redemption is portrayed with extraordinary power. There are lines of
                        greatness in the book which I shall never forget."
                    
                        President M. W. Stryker, Hamilton College, says:
                    
                    "It is a victory in writing for one whose head seems at last to have matched
                        his big human heart. There is ten times as much of reality in it as there is
                        in 'David Harum,' which does not value lightly that admirable charcoal
                        sketch."
                    Price, $1.50
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                THE STORY OF AN AMERICAN CRUCIFIXION
                
                    THE PENITENTES
                    By LOUIS HOW
                    
                        The Chicago Record says:
                    
                    "To describe the customs of this band of intensely religious people, to
                        retain all the color and picturesqueness of the original scene without
                        excess, was the difficult task which Mr. How has done well."
                    
                        The Brooklyn Eagle says:
                    
                    "The author has been fortunate enough to unearth a colossal American
                        tragedy."
                    
                        The Chicago Tribune says:
                    
                    "'The Penitentes' abounds in dramatic possibilities. It is full of action,
                        warm color and variety. The donouement at the little church of San Rafael,
                        when the soldiers surprise the Penitentes at mass in the early dawn of their
                        fete day, will appeal strongly to the dramatizer."
                    
                        The Interior says:
                    
                    "Mr. How has done a truly remarkable piece of work * * * any hand, however
                        practiced, might well be proud of the marvelously good descriptions, the
                        dramatic, highly unusual story, the able characterizations."
                    12mo, Cloth, Ornamental Price, $1.50
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                A STORY OF THE MORGAN RAID, DURING THE WAR of the REBELLION
                
                    THE LEGIONARIES
                    By HENRY SCOTT CLARK
                    
                        The Memphis Commercial-Appeal says:
                    
                    "The backbone of the story is Morgan's great raid—one of the most
                        romantic and reckless pieces of adventure ever attempted in the history of
                        the world. Mr. Clark's description of the Ride of the Three Thousand is a
                        piece of literature that deserves to live; and is as fine in its way as the
                        chariot race from 'Ben Hur.' "
                    
                        The Cincinnati Commercial-Tribune says:
                    
                    " 'The Legionaries' is pervaded with what seems to be the true spirit of
                        artistic impartiality. The author is simply a narrator. He stands aside,
                        regarding with equal eye all the issues involved and the scales dip not in
                        his hands. To sum up, the first romance of the new day on the Ohio is an
                        eminently readable one—a good yarn well spun."
                    
                        The Rochester Herald says:
                    
                    "The appearance of a new novel in the West marks an epoch in fiction relating
                        to the war between the sections for the preservation of the Union. 'The
                        Legionaries' is a remarkable book, and we can scarcely credit the assurance
                        that it is the work of a new writer."
                    12mo, illustrated Price, $1.50
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                A FINE STORY OF THE COWBOY AT HIS BEST
                
                    WITH HOOPS of STEEL
                    By FLORENCE FINCH KELLY
                    "The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, Grapple
                        them to thy soul with hoops of steel"
                    
                        From the San Francisco Chronicle:
                    
                    "Western men and women will read it because it paints faithfully the life
                        which they know so well, and because it gives us three big, manly fellows,
                        fine types of the cowboy at his best. Estern readers will be attracted by
                        its splendid realism."
                    
                        From Julian Hawthorne:
                    
                    "For my own part, I finished it all in one day, and dreamt it over again that
                        night. And I am an old hand, heaven knows."
                    
                        From the Denver Times:
                    
                    "Mrs. Kelly's character stands out from the background of the New Mexican
                        plains, desert and mountain with all the distinctness of a Remington
                        sketch."
                    With six illustrations, in color, by Dan Smith Price, $1.50
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                "AS CRISP AND CLEAN CUT AS A NEW MINTAGE."
                
                    THE PUPPET CROWN
                    BY HAROLD MACGRATH
                    A princess rarely beautiful; a duchess magnificent and heartless; a villain
                        revengeful and courageous; a hero youthful, humorous, fearless and truly
                        American;—such are the principal characters of this delightful
                            story.—Syracuse Post-Standard.
                    
                    Harold MacGrath has attained the highest point achievable in recent fiction.
                        We have the climax of romance and adventure in "The Puppet Crown."
                        — The Philadelphia North American.
                    
                    Superior to most of the great successes.—St. Paul
                            Pioneer Press.
                    
                    "The Puppet Crown" is a profusion of cleverness.—Baltimore American.
                    
                    Challenges comparison with authors whose names have become
                            immortal—Chicago American.
                    
                    Latest entry in the list of winners.—Cleveland
                            World.
                    
                    With illustrations by R. Martine Reay 12mo. Price,
                        $1.50.
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                VIGOROUS, ELEMENTAL, DRAMATIC
                
                    A HEART OF FLAME The story of a Master Passion
                    BY CHARLES FLEMING EMBREE Author of "A Dream of a Throne."
                    The men and women in this story are children of the soil. Their strength is
                        in their nearness to nature. Their minds are vigorous, their bodies
                        powerful, their passions elemental, their courage sublime. They are loyal in
                        friendship, persistent in enmity, determined in purpose.
                    The story is a story of great wrongs and of supreme love. It is done in black
                        and white, with few strokes, but they are masterly. The shadows at the back
                        are sombre but the value of contrast is appreciated for the vivid high light
                        in the foreground.
                    It is a work of art—powerful, convincing and abiding. Powerful,
                        because true to life; convincing, for it has the saving touch of humor; and
                        abiding because love, like "A Heart of Flame," prevails in the end.
                    With illustrations by Dan Smith 12mo. cloth. Price,
                        $1.50.
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                A STORY TOLD BY A REAL STORY-TELLER
                
                    A SON OF AUSTERITY
                    By GEORGE KNIGHT
                    Mr. Knight has created a real atmosphere for his men and women to breathe,
                        and his men and women take deep breaths. They are alive, they are human,
                        they are real.
                    He has a delightful story to tell and knows how to tell it. It is a story of
                        human life, of possible people in possible situations, living out their
                        little span of life in that state in which it has pleased God to call
                        them.
                    The reader realizes at once that Mr. Knight is a man who served his seven
                        years of apprenticeship before opening a shop on his own account.
                    The deftness and charm of his literary style, combined with the absoring
                        interest of the story, can not but prove a delight to every reader.
                    With a frontispiece by Harrison Fisher 12mo, Cloth. Price,
                        $1.50
                    
                        The Liverpool Mercury says:
                    
                    "This is a book far removed from the ordinary mass of featureless fiction.
                        There is no gainsaying the strength of characterization and the command of
                        English language."
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
            
            
                FULL of INCIDENT, ACTION & COLOR
                
                    LIKE ANOTHER HELEN
                    By GEORGE HORTON
                    Mr. Horton's powerful romance stands in a new field and brings an almost
                        unknown world in reality before the reader—the world of conflict
                        between Greek and Turk.
                    The island of Crete seems real and genuine after reading this book; not a
                        mere spot on the map. The tragic and pathetic troubles of this people are
                        told with sympathetic force.
                    Mr. Horton employs a vivid style that keeps the interest alive and many
                        passages are filled with delicate poetic feeling.
                    Things happen and the story moves. The characters are well conceived and are
                        human and convincing. Beyond question Mr. Horton's fine story is destined to
                        take high rank among the books of the way.
                    With illustrations by C. M. Relyea 12mo, Cloth bound
                        Price, $1.50
                    
                        The Chicago Times-Herald says:
                    
                    "Here are chapters that are Stephen Crane plus sympathy; chapters of
                        illuminated description fragrant with the atmosphere of art."
                    The Bowen-Merrill Company, Indianapolis
                    
                
            
        
    
