
     ----CITATION---- 
        Fuller, Hector, 1865-1934. Roach & Co.—Pirates and Other Stories: electronic
                    edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3905
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
                ROACH & CO.-PIRATES
            
            
            
                
                    ROACH & CO.—PIRATES
                    AND OTHER STORIES
                
                BY HECTOR FULLER
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS AND KANSAS CITY
                    THE BOWEN-MERRILL COMPANY
                    
                        M DCCC XCVIII
                    
                
            
            
            
                Copyright 1897 BY THE BOWEN-MERRILL CO.
            
            
            
                TO CHARLES R. WILLIAMS, IN APPRECIATION OF MUCH KINDNESS IN ITS
                    PREPARATION, THIS VOLUME IS DEDICATED
            
            
            
                
                
                    
                        THERE are pirates and treasure on board,
                        There are wreckr-laden tempests to come,
                        There are islands where jewels are stored,
                        And sailors that never sail home.
                    
                    
                        Smash the glass over her nose, boys,
                        See, she glides out of the slip.
                        Steady! Stand ready! She goes, boys;
                        Christened and launched--a ship.
                    
                    
                        Tales told by the ocean-washed dead,
                        Dreams wrung from the gate-beaten spray,
                        From the port of wild fancy ahead,
                        From the man-scuttled wreck in the bay.
                    
                    
                        Christined and launched--a ship, boys!
                        Bottle smashed over her nose,
                        Articles signed for the trip, boys,
                        Bully!--Away she goes!
                    
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS
                
                    I. Roach & Co.--Pirates 1
                        
                    II. The Strange Happenings in Tolly's Nullah 40
                        
                    III. The Finding of the Ship 75
                        
                    IV. With the Sun Overhead 111
                        
                    V. Gunga Hassim 136
                        
                    VI. The Third Mate of the Jumna 155
                        
                    VII. The Little Sisters of the Desolate 181
                        
                    VII. An Ocean Christmas 188
                        
                    IX. All's Well 209
                        
                
            
            
            
                ROACH & CO.-PIRATES
            
        
        
            
            
                Roach & Co.—Pirates and Other Stories
                
                    ROACH & CO.-PIRATES
                    
                        
                            
                                "Storm King! Storm King! tell me, tell me, do,
                                Is my lover coming o'er the waters blue,
                                Coming from the Rio Grande,
                                Sailing from a foreign land,
                                Sailing to his sweetheart with her heart so true?"
                            
                            
                                "Pretty maid, fair maid," so the Storm King
                                    said,
                                "It grieves me sore to tell you that your sailor lad is
                                    dead
                                Captain Kid and his corsairs stout
                                Sank his ship but three days out
                                And left him hanging, hanging to the main masthead."
                            
                        
                        
                            Old Sea Song
                        
                    
                    JOHN ROACH was the second mate of the Rohilla, on her trip
                        from Calcutta to Demerara, carrying coolies. The regular second mate had
                        been left in the Seaman's Hospital, Calcutta, ill of a fever. John
                        Roach, stopping at the Sailors' Home, had been engaged, the last
                        minute before sailing, for the vacant berth. He was a thorough sailor and an
                        arrant rogue. After the coolies had been discharged at Dem-erasa and the ship cleared, it was found that a
                        large quantity of stores was missing, and in- vestigation showed that John
                        Roach was the thief. He had done good service in the three months passage;
                        had saved the ship one night in a squall by his cool head and his thorough
                        seamanship; so, in remembrance of his service, he was not prosecuted, but
                        was set ashore in Georgetown with his kit, three months' pay and no
                        character. The Rohilla sailed away on her homeward voyage, and John Roach
                        was left standing on the wharf watching her.
                    "This is a hell of a note," he muttered as he watched the
                        Rohilla cast off her hawser from the tug, loosen her top-sails, and speed
                        away before the breeze. "I had a cursed narrow escape from jail.
                        What an infernal ass I was to try that game on. Nothing to show for it;
                        stranded in this God-forsaken hole with hardly any money and no papers. I
                        sha'nt be able to get away unless I ship before the mast."
                        He watched the Rohilla until she rounded the point, whose extremity was
                        marked by the white- washed lighthouse, and was shut out from view;  then thrusting his hands into his pockets he
                        jin- gled some silver and muttering, "It's lucky
                        I've got the price of a drink left," he turned away in the
                        gathering dusk and walked up into the town.
                    John Roach was thirty-five or thereabouts. He was the son of a gentleman, and
                        had received a good education. He held a captain's certificate, and
                        had commanded vessels in his time, but roguery had been his failing. Forced
                        to leave home on account of dishonesty, he had taken kindly to the sea. He
                        had been discharged in Calcutta for theft, and had served his time in the
                        Allapore jail for robbing a native. Dur- ing his short career he had tried
                        many kinds of villainy, for which he had usually been brought to justice. He
                        chose evil deliberately; his mind was constantly turning over nefarious
                        schemes. Now, stranded in Demerara, but with few dollars in his posse ssion,
                        he was desperate. As he passed the Anglo-Spanish bank in Char- tres street
                        and heard the employes counting up for the night, his mind revolved a
                        visionary plan by which the bank might be robbed. He looked  at the place closely and determined that if
                        hard pressed he would try it. Then he passed up the street, dropped into a
                        cafe, and, drinking wine with some Spanish acquaintances, forgot all about
                        it.
                    The same day John Roach was left standing on the wharf watching his ship pass
                        out of sight, the doors of a prison in Bermuda swung open and released a
                        prisoner. He was a sailor, to judge from his rolling walk and the nautical
                        de- vices worked under the skin on his brawny arms and his broad chest. The
                        tattooing was plain to be seen, for his sleeves were rolled up and the
                        collar of his shirt was unbuttoned and thrown back. He wore no hat, although
                        the blazing sun beat down fiercely.
                    As he came down to the gate to pass out, one of the warders had said to
                        him:
                    "Jack, you'd better have a hat of some kind.
                        You'll be down with the sunstroke."
                    "That's some more of your bloody business. What do you
                        beggars care if I get a sunstroke or  not?
                        Don't you fear; I've done my time, and I'll not
                        bother you no more, me coveys."
                    "I've got a hat you can have if you want it," said
                        the warder, who felt a touch of kindness towards the man.
                    "Have you? You wear it to hell then," replied Jack;
                        "I've been with you blokes now for six months and
                        I've never asked you fer a favor, and I ain't a-going to
                        begin now. Open the door and let me go--will you? an'
                        don't keep me a-arguing here with you. I'm sick
                        o' you damn jail-birds that could make a livin' out- side
                        if you wanted to, but prefers to stay in jail. I don't--so let me
                        go."
                    His tone was utterly reckless and defiant. He cared nothing for the wrath of
                        the warders. The gate swung open slowly. The broad, red road lay before him.
                        The sun seemed to blind him for a moment; then he stepped out bareheaded and
                        barearmed, and never once looked back.
                    That night a sergeant in the Rifle Brigade, stationed at Bermuda, was knocked
                        down and robbed of nearly £200. It was regimental money to be used in paying
                        the soldiers. That  night, also, a Malay
                        fisherman reported that some one had stolen his craft, a one-ton yawl which
                        he used for fishing.
                    Four days later John Roach lay on the hot sandy beach, about five miles from
                        Georgetown. His money was gone. He had been playing monte with the Spaniards and, as a matter of fact, he had not
                        eaten that day. He had sold his kit and was at his wits' end. As he
                        lay there he meditated schemes for making money. He wanted a big haul so
                        that he could quit roving and settle down. He had that in his veins which
                        did not run quicker at the thought of murder, and as he watched a ship in
                        the offing he revolved a mad scheme of procuring employment on her, getting
                        rid of the crew and claiming salvage on the vessel for bringing her into
                        port. He seriously thought of doing this, and he conjured up the details in
                        his mind as he lay on the burning sand, discoloring it and the shells about
                        him with tobacco juice.
                    A cloud passed over the sun and the wind seemed to blow a little cooler.
                        Roach looked  out to sea with a
                        sailor's instinct, wondering if the weather were about to change.
                        He could see no signs of it. Looking along the horizon he saw a speck which
                        might be a bird or a sail. He lay on the sand again and could not see it.
                        Stretched at full length on the beach it was two hours before the speck,
                        which he had seen while standing up, came into his view lying down. Then he
                        saw that it was a yawl. Looking closer he saw that it was handled by one
                        man. As she was headed she would land about a mile from where he lay. Roach
                        speculated as to what she was doing and why she did not make for the mouth
                        of the George river. It occurred to him that the man in the boat must have
                        something to conceal. He might be a smuggler. If so he would go down and
                        help him to run his cargo ashore and go halves with him. As he thought of
                        this he drew back from the beach into the grass and began a detour which
                        would bring him where the boat would land.
                    When he reached the beach again the boat had grounded and the sailor was
                        knee-deep in the light surf, trying to haul her up higher.  Roach stepped up behind him without being seen,
                        saying:
                    "I'll lend you a hand, matey."
                    The man with the boat turned and clinched him in an instant. There was a
                        brief struggle, one or two hard knocks, and then the men separated.
                    "John Roach!"
                    "Jack!"
                    The men stood in attitudes denoting surprise. They looked at each other,
                        then, shaking hands, they smiled. Together they took hold of the yawl and
                        beached her high and dry. Then they sat down under the shade of some stunted
                        palms.
                    "Where did you come from?" asked Roach.
                    "Bermuda. Got out of jail a week ago, did for a soldier the same
                        night, swiped the boat from a nigger and sailed over here."
                    "What are you going to do?"
                    "Oh, I've got enough to pay my passage home, and
                        I'm going like a bloody gentleman."
                    "Got enough for me?"
                    "Maybe. What lay are you on?"
                    
                    "Nothing at present. Came over from Cal- cutta with coolies-second
                        mate; was caught lootingand got dumped. Lost what ittle cash I had to the
                            monte men, and haven't eat to-
                        day."
                    "Well, I've got some coin. You go down town and get me some
                        clothes. Get some grub for both of us, and come back here."
                    He handed Roach a twenty-pound note. "I won't move till you
                        come back," said Jack.
                    In an hour Roach returned with a basket of food, some wine and the clothes.
                        Jack put on the clothes and the two men sat down to a meal. During its
                        progress the men related their adventures since they had seen each other
                        last.
                    Two years before this time both of them had been on a Nova Scotian vessel,
                        the crew of which mutinied. Roach, Jack and one other man had not been
                        content with simple mutiny. They had sailed the vessel close to the New-
                        foundland banks, had robbed their shipmates and officers, and had then made
                        their escape in a small boat. Their companion had proved contumacious, and
                        during a fight he had been  killed and thrown
                        over the side. Roach and Jack had reached land, separated, and met now for
                        the first time.
                    "And what are you going to do, Jack?" asked Roach.
                        "Have you any scheme on hand?"
                    "You bet I have, and if you're game for it, say so.
                        I'm dead sick of this namby-pamby petty larceny business.
                        I'm a-going to turn pirate."
                    The other man laughed. "The word was forgotten long ago. Pirates
                        have gone, except in the Malay archipelago. There's no use for
                        pirates in the western waters.
                    "The hell there ain't! And a bloomin' lot you know
                        about it. Now Itell you I'm sick of this, and I'm going to
                        be a bloody millionaire before the month's out. How? Well,
                        I'll tell you if you say you're game."
                    "Show me a chance at half a million, and if I don't stay
                        with you it'll be because I'm crazy."
                    "Will you swear that if I put you on to the game that
                        you'll not give it away? That 
                        you'll not try it on with any other mates? That you'll
                        take no one in with us unless I says so; and that if we get the boodle, that
                        we'll go share and share alike?"
                    "Of course I'll swear it."
                    "What on?"
                    "Any kind of an oath you like."
                    "Well, then, no kind of an oath. I'in take yer word because
                        I have to, but I'll watch you, John. The stakes are too high You
                        know I just come from the States before I was legged. Well, I was waiting
                        there for a ship, and I used to monkey around the wharves. Day after day I
                        seen men come down to the liners' wharves and load 'em up
                        with gold-ared, shiny, bloody gold--all done up in herrin' casks
                        and thousands of pounds in each of 'em. No flimsy-- just the solid
                        gold, that can't be identified and that tells no tales. Day by day,
                        and week by week that stuff goes across thewater-some to France, some to
                        Germany, and some to England. All them passenger boats carry it--some of
                        'em five million at a time."
                    "Yes, but yer scheme won't work. Besides  the passengers and the big crew,
                        there's a whole lot o cargo piled up on top of the safes, and we
                        couldn't reach 'em in two days. More'n that, the
                        stuf's always guarded. Even i we ship onone and it don't
                        make us any richer to travel across the western ocean with a million or
                        two."
                    "Neither it does, neither it does! But you ain't got the
                        blooming idee. We'll go in another vessel and hold her up. It may
                        be that we'll have to scuttle the ship, but whatever we does, John,
                        it's a dead gamble. Our lives against a million in gold.
                        It's a risky game. Will you play it?"
                    "How much provision have you got on board?" asked
                        Roach.
                    "None."
                    "Give me the money, and I'll get some."
                    Jack handed him a bank-note and Roach went back to town. When he returned it
                        was dark. He came back driving a cart, to which a small donkey was attached.
                        Jack came out of the darkness to meet him.
                    "What have you got ?" he asked.
                    
                    "I've got grub, some weapons, a compass and a sextant.
                        We'll sail to the States and fix up our scheme on the
                        way."
                    The yawl was loaded with her provisions. She was half-decked over, forward,
                        and the supplies were placed outof the way of the weather. The boat was
                        shoved off into the surf. The two men got on board. Roach took the tiller,
                        and she sailed out into the blackness of the night, her bow churning up the
                        phosphorescent flames until she seemed to be sailing on a sea of fire.
                    The Kilkania, of the Black Star line, was two days out from New York. She was
                        bent, not so much on beating the record in her voyage from New York to
                        Queenstown, as on getting over in safety. She represented one of the larger
                        waves in the golden tide that was setting in from America to Europe. Down in
                        the treasure-room in the second hold were stored twenty stout casks, each
                        containing ten sacks, and each sack holding $10,000 in gold coin.
                    The chief officer, Mr. Williams, saw the casks locked up. A key to the safe
                        was given him.  Another key was turned over to
                        Captain Marlin, and the purser of the boat, Mr. Ross, had another. There
                        were three locks on the safe, and with any key missing no one could open it.
                        The treasure in gold carried on the Kilkania on this trip amounted to
                        $2,ooo,ooo. It was consigned to the Rothschilds Bros., London, by the
                        banking-house of Heindrick, Howland & Co.
                    The Kilkania was a fine boat. She had been the pride of the Atlantic ever
                        since the Black Star Company had launched her from their docks in Glasgow.
                        She had not beaten the record for fast time, but her owners knew that in an
                        emergency she could make twenty-two knots an hour. Her nine boilers required
                        nearly three hundred tons of coal every twenty-four hours, and she went
                        along in fair weather at a steady pace of seventeen knots.
                    She was crowded with passengers. In the first saloon there were two hundred
                        and fifty, among them men who could have bought a fleet of Kilkanias,
                        treasureand all. Inbtheghec- ond cabin there were two hundred passengers,
                        and even the steerage was crowded with men 
                        going back to have a look at the old country."
                    Among the steerage passengers was a young fellow by the name of George
                        Chalmers. He was an Irishman who had been in the United States ten years.
                        Hewas nearly thirty years old. He had left in Dublin his sweetheart, back
                        and claim her for his wife. He had seen the ups and downs of life. He had
                        worked at many things, unsuccessfully, until he had at last got a job as
                        bell boy in a New York hotel. From bell boy he rose to be under-porter, and
                        finally he had attained to the dignity of head porter and a large
                        salary--for him. During it all he had been true to Nora, and now, his good
                        fortune having come, he longed for her. He applied for leave of absence and
                        got it. He had bought a small house, out Harlem way, and he needed all his
                        money for the ceremony and for furniture. He would marry Nora and they would
                        travel back in the second saloon. Going over, the steerage was good enough
                        for him.  Chalmers was an honest lad, and even
                        in the two days that the Kilkania had been speeding toward Ireland he had
                        managed to make friends with some of the people in the first saloon, and had
                        received more than one nod from the gold- laced captain.
                    It was about two o'clock on the afternoon of after deck ran down
                        into the saloon, and, hailing a young girl who was just coming from her
                        state-room, said:
                    "Come on deck, Miss Mary; there's a steam- with
                        her."
                    The two went on deck to find all the ship's passengers crowed to the
                        lee side of the steamer. On the bridge stood the captain and his officers.
                        The captain held biocular glasses to his eyes.
                    "I can't make her out, Mr. Williams; can you? She shows
                        signs of distress, but she's got steam up. I can see only two men
                        aboard of her."
                    
                    "That's all I can see, Captain," responded the
                        mate. She doesn't look low in the water, either. She can't
                        be leaking."
                    "Maybe it's sickness," suggested the third
                        mate.
                    "That may be it," assented the captain. "I
                        can't make out her name; can you? That's "the
                        American ensign that she's got upside down there. She's an
                        oil tank steamer by the looks of her. Stand by to signal to the engines, Mr.
                        Williams."
                    "Aye, aye, sir," responded the mate. " I think
                        we'd better take a look at her, don't you,
                        Williams?" queried the captain.
                    "Why, yes, sir; she may be in some serious trouble."
                    "All right; but I hate the delay."
                    The helm was thrown over to starboard, the speed was slackened, and it took
                        but a short distance of the mysterious steamer. Captain Marlin asked for a
                        speaking trumpet and hailed: "Ship ahoy! What can we do for
                        you?"
                    The answer came back faint and indistinct:
                    
                    "We--had--mutiny--; crew--dead--gone--take--home."
                    "What are they saying; could you hear, Mr. Williams?"
                    "Seems to have been a mutiny, sir; or something."
                    He's going to hail again, sir," remarked the purser.
                    Everybody listened. All that could be heard was: "Wait--send
                        boat."
                    "Damn it; we haven't got time to wait here all day. Well,
                        they got her over pretty quick, anyhow." This remark was called
                        forth by the fact that a boat came around the stem of the strange steamer
                        and made for the Kilkania. She was propelled by one man, who stood up in the
                        stern-sheets and ferried the boat with one oar. Instead of pulling directly
                        for the ship's gangway, he passed around to windward and was hidden
                        from view of the deck by the over- hanging stern. No one recalled until
                        afterward that when the boat started she had a bundle in the bows; when the
                        boat came alongside she contained nothing but the man.
                    
                    "What do you want?" bellowed the first officer, as a sailor
                        threw the boat a line.
                    "Wait till I get on deck, and I'll tell you."
                    Slowly, but skillfully, the lone occupant of the boat climbed the rope and,
                        vaulting lightly over the bulwarks, alighted on the deck. There was a queer
                        look about him. His face was deathly pale, his mouth was set in a determined
                        fashion, and his eyes had a strange light. More than one passenger that had
                        crowded up through curiosity fell back as the man touched the deck, and,
                        with an awkward gesture, took off his seaman's cap.
                    " I must speak to the captain," he said in a hoarse
                        voice.
                    He was shown to the bridge, and up the steps he climbed.
                    "Good afternoon," said Captain Marlin, pleasantly.
                    "Good afternoon," responded the other; "Can I have
                        a word with you in your cabin?"
                    "Can not you say what you have to say here ?"
                    "No; I can not."
                    "Come on, then."
                    
                    "The mate can come, too, if you like."
                    "All right, then, Mr. Williams, come with us. Take charge of the
                        deck, sir," he said to the second officer.
                    The captain led the way, the stranger followed, Mr. Williams brought up the
                        rear. The mate did not know what to make of it all, and as he went down the
                        companion-way he looked over his shoulder and grinned at some of his friends
                        among the passengers.
                    For twenty minutes the door of the captain's cabin remained closed.
                        Then it opened and the stranger came out. His teeth were set, and he walked
                        up the companion-way, looking neither to the right nor to the left. He gave
                        no heed to the groups of passengers, but walked deliberately to the rail,
                        slid down the rope, cast off and began to pull to his vessel. The passengers
                        that watched saw him climb up the side, helped by another man, saw these two
                        men shake hands, and then saw one of the men go below.
                    In an instant the propeller of the strange steamer began to move, and she
                        came much closer to the Kilkania than she had been. She  halted a little in advance of the big liner, and then the
                        passengers saw three ports opened, disclosing the muzzles of three large
                        guns. These guns appeared to be on swivels, and even as the passengers
                        looked they could see the man who had visited the Kilkania turn first one,
                        then the second, and then the third gun, so that they trained directly on
                        the Kilkania about amidships. Even then, neither the passengers nor the
                        officers remaining on deck understood.
                    In the meantime the captain summoned an officer to his cabin. He ordered him
                        to go down to the engine-room, and to give the first engineer strict orders
                        on no account whatever to move the engines either one way or the other. This
                        done, he commanded the steward to assemble the male first-class passengers,
                        and all the ship's officers but the second mate, in the first
                        saloon.
                    They made a large company, and the captain and the first mate eyed the men in
                        silence as they filed into the saloon. When all were gathered, the captain
                        raised his hands for silence and said: "Gentlemen, that steamer is
                        a pirate."
                    The announcement was greeted with laughter.  The
                        passengers knew the Kilkania had no guns, but they also knew that she could,
                        if necessary, run away from almost any vessel on the seas.
                    "Laughing won't help the matter, gentlemen,"
                        continued the captain, in a grave voice. "We are utterly helpless.
                        You saw the man thatcame on board. There is one more villain waiting for us
                        for over a week. They knew that we should have over two millions of money on
                        board. As that fiend came on board he passed under our stern. At that time
                        he waited on each side of our propeller. The first move of our engines will
                        explode those torpedoes, and at least render the motive power of the vessel
                        worthless. So much for that. The man who came on board said that his partner
                        on the said that if he did not leave the ship in thirty minutes his partner
                        from the pirate would fire a shell into us amidships. That would cripple our
                        engines, probably explode one or more of  our
                        boilers. If we attemptd to go ahead we trap, and we had to let the man go
                        unmolested."
                    Exclamations of dismay broke from the officers and the passengers as they
                        realized their danger.
                    One man said, "We are liable to be blown up in a
                        minute."
                    Another ejaculated, "Oh, Lord! "
                    " It will do no good to give way to our fears," said the
                        captain. He was, to all appearances, calm and ready for the worst.
                        "We have women on board and must protect them. These pirates demand
                        the two millions in specie which we carry. If it is delivered to them, they
                        themselves will remove the torpedoes from our stern and we can proceed
                        unmolested. If we refuse, they threaten to sink the ship and all on board. I
                        thought it right to submit the situation to you."
                    At once there was a vote, almost unanimous, to give up the money and letting
                        the business end. One man thought that after the pirates had taken the
                        money, they might blow up  the steamer anyhow,
                        and so destroy the traces of the work. Another thought that the torpedoes
                        could be removed by the crew of the Kilkania, and a vote was taken as to
                        whether it should be tried. The majority was against the attempt. SThe money
                        was not their money, they argued. IThe bankers had probably insured it, and
                        so they would not really be losers after all. This Sthought seemed to make
                        every one more cheerful, and it did not seem half so bad as if the pirates
                        had proposed to rob the passengers. The matter was argued for a few minutes,
                        and then the captain said: " They only gave us one hour in which to
                        make up our minds."
                    The vote was taken at once, and the captain went on deck, and, with his own
                        hands, waved a white handkerchief--the signal agreed upon. Almost at once a
                        large whaleboat put off from the side of the pirate. She was propelled by
                        the same man and in the same manner. Without any fear or hesitation he
                        pulled the boat alongside.
                    "You agreed, did you?" he cried. "All  right, come on with the stuff; I
                        ain't got much time to waste."
                    All around the gangway the passengers crowd- ed to look at the
                        "pirate." The women were more curious than the men. An
                        English nobleman, who had been shooting cinnamon bear in Arkansas, and had
                        imagined that he was " killing big game," suggested that
                        he would get out his rifle and shoot the villain down.
                    "That would hardly do," said the captain. " There
                        are two of them, you know."
                    Indeed, the other could be seen standing by his guns on the other steamer. He
                        had a lanyard in his hand. He never once took his eyes off the Kilkania.
                    On deck the crew were at work breaking out the cargo so as to get at the
                        steelsafe. It was a good hour's work, and as the bundles and
                        packages were hauled up with the aid of a steam winch, some of the
                        passengers took a hand in clearing them away. At the hatchway stood the
                        three officersthat held the keys to the steel safe. Each of them had his key
                        ready in his hand, and they looked once in a while at the  black-hulled steamer that was forcing them to
                        give up their treasure. The man in the boat, bav- ing made her fast, climbed
                        up the rope, and, for a time, stood watching the crew at work. Captain
                        Marlin came and stood beside him. "This is an awful thing you are
                        forcing us to do," he said.
                    "Yes, I guess it is. Kidd wasn't in it. I expect some
                        fellow will write a life of me now. 'John Roach & Co., the
                        Pirates of the Nineteenth Century.' It's an up-to-date job
                        all around, ain't it?"
                    Seeing a rather good-looking ady standing near, he took off his cap and said:
                        " I'm going to buy a title with my half of this two
                        millions, and I expect to get a wife as pretty and as nice as yon are. How
                        would you like the job, sweetheart?" Her lover was standing near,
                        and, at the insolence, his face reddened, and as the lady stepped back he
                        said: "I'd smash you in the nose for two cents, you
                        coward!"
                    Roach laughed, and, turning to the captain, said: "You'd
                        better hurry those men up. I can't wait much longer6 By the by, you
                        might  as well tell the steward to put a case
                        or two of champagne into my boat; we came away with mighty few provisions.
                        I'd like a haunch of fresh beef, too."
                    The order was given, and the things were handed down into his boat. Roach
                        ordered one of the crew to stow the things snugly for him. Then he glanced
                        over at the other steamer, and seeing Jack standing by the gun with the
                        lanyard in his hand, he said: "I'm afraid my
                        partner'll be tired of waiting." He seized a speaking
                        trumpet from the rail, and raising it he hallooed out: "Jack, ahoy!
                        Go down and turn some more oil on. Keep the bloody fres going and get on a
                        good head of steam. I'll be aboard in a few minutes."
                    Jack was seen to drop the lanyard and go below.
                    "It's all right, you know," remarked Roach.
                        "If you try to move this old hooker, you'll only blow a
                        hole in her bottom, and I guess there's none of you want to go to
                        kingdom come, even for the pleasure of my company on the way." Then
                        he dropped his bantering tone, and turn-ing to
                        the mate he said: "Damn it, man! What in the hell are those men
                        about? Get at that safe there, or I'l1 murder one or two of you.
                        Come, turn to, there, turn to!"
                    "It's all right, Mr. Williams," came a voice from
                        below, and then the three keys to the precious safe were tied together and
                        handed down below. The purser, with a lantern, inserted them in their locks,
                        and opening the doors, three stalwart sailors began to roll out the casks. A
                        whip and tackle had been fixed in the meantime, and as the first cask came
                        on deck it was swung at once over the side and into the boat.
                    " How much in that bloody cask now?" queried John
                        Roach.
                    No one answered him. He grasped the mate by the shoulder.
                    "Damn you, I'm speaking to you."
                    The mate bit his nether lip and answered, "Fifty thousand
                        dollars."
                    "Well. That's pretty good. Get out the rest, and be quick
                        about it."
                    Over they came, one at a time. Fifty thous- and, one hundred thousand, one
                        hundred and  fifty thousand, two hundred
                        thousand, three hundred thousand, half a million, a million.
                    "Damn it all," said Roach. "That may be cheese,
                        for all I know. Give me a hatchet."
                    One was brought to him, and he clambered down to the boat and broke in the
                        head of a cask. He laid bare the sacks, and with a savage blow with the keen
                        edge of the hatchet he cut open one of them. The gold coins lay revealed.
                        Hegrasped a handful, then another. He filled his pockets and climbed back to
                        the deck. The last cask was being swung over. "Well done,
                        boys," he said to the sailors, "here's your
                        reward," and he scattered the gold coins among them. Some of the
                        sailors started to pick them up. "Sweep them over- board,"
                        cried the captain.
                    " Do as you like," sneered Roach. " I'm
                        fixed for life. Good day, ladies; sorry to have stopped you so long.
                        I'll invite you to my villa on the Thames some day."
                    Then he climbed over into his boat, and, casting off the line, began to
                        propel her toward his steamer. The boat was heavy and he could  hardly move her, " Get over here, a
                        couple of you men," he cried. The sailors looked at the captain,
                        and he nodded his head. Two men got into the boat and pulled her alongside
                        the steamer. Roach ordered one of them on board, and then the three of
                        them--Roach, Jack and the sailor from the Kilkania, hoisted the casks as the
                        fourth man made them fast. It took but a few minutes to get them on board.
                        Roach wrote a note, gave it to one of the sailors, and, pointing to the life
                        buoys that were hanging to the rail, said: " You can't
                        have our boat; we need her. Put those things around you and swim back. Give
                        that note to the captain, with my compliments."
                    One of the sailors started to protest, but, with an oath, Jack drew a
                        revolver and fired point- blank at him. Thesailorfelltothe deck. The other
                        man, seeing his companion fall, jumped into the sea and made for the
                        Kilkania. When he was gone, Roach stepped to the man who had been shot and
                        found him dead. " You're a bloody brute, Jack,"
                        he said. "That wasn't necessary."
                    
                    "How in the hell do you know? I saw his eye. There was two of them,
                        and they was a- thinking of trying to do us. I thought it best to be safe.
                        Take the helm, John, and I'll go down and turn on
                        steam."
                    In another two minutes the propeller began to revolve, and the steamer,
                        turning around, steamed off in the direction of New York, with John Roach at
                        the helm.
                    The note which the captain received from the hands of the sailor, who swam to
                        the Kilkania, was as follows: "Captain--We haven't time to stop and remove those
                            torpedoes. You can do it just as well yourselves. Handle them carefully.
                                Roach & Co.—Pirates."
                    It was ticklish work, but it had to be done, so the captain ordered the
                        passengers to the forward part of the vessel, and sent a boat with four men
                        and an officer to remove the torpedoes. The first one was got loose without
                        difficulty, but the second one was wedged in some way, and in trying to get
                        it loose, one of the sailors dropped a marlinspike on the head of it, and it
                        exploded with terrific violence.  Three of the
                        sailors were killed, and the officer was blown some distance away. He was
                        picked up afterward. The propellors were shattered, the shaft was bent and
                        the rudder destroyed. Otherwise the vessel was not damaged.
                    There was absolutely no hope of completing the voyage, and as night fell the
                        captain determined to put back for New York. The night proved calm, but
                        although the scant sails were hoisted and trimmed to the best advantage,
                        barely five miles were made during the night. The next day it came on to
                        blow a gale from the northeast, and in twenty-four hours the Kilkania was
                        blown three hundred miles to the for three weeks, one day making a little
                        prog- ress, the next day losing what she had gained.
                    The uneasiness at the delay of the steamer grew intense. New York and London
                        were alike hardly thought of. She carried over five hun- dred souls, and
                        their friends besieged the offices of the steamship company and thronged the
                             newspaper offices. The steamer had not
                        even been sighted. The most sanguine began to lose hope. Every day the
                        newspapers print- ed columns about the missing vessel. The names of all the
                        passengers were published, pictures of the ship were made, impossible the-
                        ories were propounded. The marine reporters young reporter on the New York
                        Sun wrote an article suggesting pirates. His article was not published and
                        his services were dispensed with. No one guessed the truth.
                    The Kilkania was three weeks overdue, and of the New York Herald there walked, one morning, a young man, much sunburned.
                        " I want to see the managing editor," he said.
                    " He's gone to Siberia on his wedding trip," said
                        a smart office boy.
                    "I know something about the Kilkania," re- marked the young
                        man.
                    "My heavens, man, come in. Here's the managing
                        editor's office. Step right in. Beg 
                        your pardon, sir.--Here's a gentleman with information about the
                        missing steamer."
                    "By Jove! we are in luck," ejaculated the managing editor.
                        "Take a chair. What is it you wish to tell me?"
                    "If I can tell you of the Kikania being waylaid by pirates; if I can
                        tell you of the robbery of the two millions in gold she carried; if I can
                        tell you of its recovery and the death of the pi- rates, every word true and
                        susceptible of proof, what would the story be worth?"
                    Worth? My God, man! A hundred dollars-five hundred-any sum you like Go on,
                        tell us I I'll see you don't lose by it. Hold on a
                        minute." Whistling up a tube, " Holloa, there! Bulletin
                        news of the Kilkania. Get ready for an extra. Hustle now. Now, then, wait
                        till I get some reporters in here, please."
                    At his summons, four of his best men came into his room.
                    " Sit down, gentlemen," said the managing editor.
                        "We are going to get out an extra on a great story. This gentleman
                        will tell it. Don't  interrupt. Write
                        fast and make copy as you go. Now, then, fire away."
                    And the story was told as we know it; told by George Chalmers, erstwhile
                        steerage passenger on the Kilkania, and formerly head porter of the
                        Amsterdam Hotel. He told of the taking of the gold, and then he said:
                    "While they were getting the gold over the side, I noticed that the
                        other man on the pirate watched him to protect him. When I saw Roach take
                        the gold, I knew that my fortun was made if I could recover any pan of it. I
                        made up my mind to take chances, and I slipped over the side and swam over
                        to the pirate vessel unperceived. I got on board without the other pirate
                        noticing me; he was so intent on the Kilkania. I sneaked down below and hid.
                        I had my revolver with me, and, as I passed below, I got a pocketful of
                        hardtack from a sack I saw. As soon as we began to move, I knew that the
                        pirates had accomplished their purpose. I guessed they would try to land on
                        the coast of the United States, so  as to get
                        away with their prize. I stayed between decks. One of the pirates was at the
                        helm, the other in the engine-room. They burned oil and did not require help
                        to fire the boilers. At night they stopped work, put out all the lights,
                        except the one in the cabin. That they covered up. They kept watch; half the
                        night each. All this I noticed on the first night. Then I thought I would
                        recapture the ship on the second night, but I afterwards reconsidered this,
                        and waited until they struck land. John Roach was a good sailor; he made for
                        the southward, and struck somewhere about Florida. Then he coasted along
                        until he found a bay with no town and no houses. He beat off this until
                        night-time and then ran the steamer in and dropped anchor."
                        "That night Roach kept the first watch, the other man named Jack
                        went to sleep. Both were tired out. Both of the men had been drinking a good
                        deal, and about midnight Roach fell asleep. Jack was the strongest, so I
                        tackled him first. I tied him as he lay without waking him; not very firmly,
                        however,  for I was afraid to draw the knots
                        too tight. Then I went on deck to where Roach lay on a hen-coop. I had a
                        rope in one hand, my pistol in the other. As I came toward him he awoke,
                        sprang up and drew his revolver. I shot first "and killed him. The
                        noise awoke Jack, and when I rushed into the cabin he was on his feet and
                        struggling to get free. One arm was al- ready loose. He fired at me as I
                        entered the cabin, and in self-defense I was forced to shoot him, too. The
                        bodies I fastened to a hen-coop, two hundred dollars to pay my expenses to
                        New York. I will turn over the balance to you."
                    " But what became of the Kilkania?" queried the managing
                        editor. "If they did not damage her, she should have been heard
                        from before now."
                    "I'll tell you. When the pirate vessel was about two miles
                        away from the Kilkania, I heard the report of a terrific explosion, and I
                        believe  that the pirates had placed the
                        torpedoes so that the vessel would blow up and hide their
                        traces."
                    "That accounts for it all," said the manag-ing editor.
                    In a few minutes the extra was out, and the greatest
                        "scoop" of the decade was accom- plished. The papers went
                        like wild-fire, and even the friends of the passengers felt better at
                        knowing the worst.
                    That evening at five o'clock the report came up from the bay,
                        "The Kilkania in sight, under sail."
                    And so she was. She came along slowly but in town issued an extra in honor of
                        the event. The news went all over the world in a few minutes, and the
                        passengers landed from the Kilkania, after their exciting experience, the
                        heroes of the hour.
                    George Chalmers went with the searching  party
                        to the bay in Florida, and had the satis- faction of seeing the gold brought
                        up by divers. Not more than a thousand dollars out of the two million
                        dollars was missing. The passengers of of the Black Star line, and with
                        them, in the first cabin, was George Chalmers. His fortune was made, and he
                        was going to bring back his Nora.
                
                
                
                    THE STRANGE HAPPENINGS IN TOLLY'S NULLAH
                    
                        
                            
                                Where the carrion adjunct lines the bank,
                                Where the bromlekite whirls in a dust-colored
                                    sky,
                                Under the palms and the jungle rank
                                What is left for a man, but to love and to die?
                            
                        
                        
                            From the Song of Bara Sadat.
                        
                    
                    TOLLY'S NULLAH is an estuary of the Hooghly river.
                        Its entrance is almost hid from passing vessels by the swarm of small craft
                        that duster around its mouth. There are masula boats, catamarans, dinghys,
                        budgerows and all manner of native craft. They are a brotherhood in
                        themselves; and Tolly's Nullah has the reputation, among the
                        Calcutta police, of being a sort of city of refuge for law-defying or kills
                        and robs a half-drunk Ferhingee, he is  sure of
                        a welcome and a safe hiding place among the native river-men that make
                        Tolly's Nullah their home.
                    The Chowringhee road runs as far as Tolly's Nullah, and ends there.
                        No self-respecting En- glish built road could go farther, for at
                        Tolly's Nullah the road runs into the Kali Ghat, the only real
                        Indian thing--besides the natives--in Cal- cutta. Kali Ghat means
                        "the bathing place of the Black-one," the black-one in
                        this case sig- nifying the goddess of the thugs.
                    Tolly's Nullah and Kali Ghat go well together. The Nullah is no one
                        knows how many years old; the Kali Ghat is at least four hundred. Its age
                        lends it a peculiar sanctity, and at each religious festival thousands of
                        worshipers re- pair thither to bathe in the Nullah, and to offer up
                        sacrifice. Hastings bridge spans Tolly's Nullah at its junction
                        with the Hooghly, and the glimpses obtained from the bridge are about all of
                        the place that white men usually see.
                    Sobra Singh was an ardent pupil of the Thaggi school. He was a disciple of
                        Nizam-ud-din- Ouliah of Delhi. He had inherited the divine  instinct of Thuggish from his father; and even
                        when the cursed British were hot-footed to stamp out all traces of the
                        strangling art, Sobra Singh continued to offer up choice sacrifices to Durga
                        Kali, reinforcing the kamarband with drugging and poison.
                        When he was only five years old, the father had given the boy a kamarband to practice with, and had shown him how to fold it firm
                        and strong into a cloth three feet long, with a knot at each extremity, and
                        a slip-knot about eighteen inches between. To get the ex- act distance and
                        the measurements, the old man folded the turban on his knee. When it is thus
                        folded it just fits a victim's neck. Sobra grew up and hunted with
                        his father, and was finally made a bhuttote, or strangler,
                        on his own account. He had a successful career until one day the band was
                        routed by the government officials, and Sobra's father was hanged
                        for his crimes.
                    After that Sobra took to river thuggism. He had never really believed very
                        much in the sac- rifices to Kali. It was the money of the victims that had
                        always seemed to him the chief good. He had become a great opium smoker at
                        the  time of his father's death, and
                        the drug was expensive. His father was hanged in the courtyard of the Lahore
                        jail, and Sobra stood outside and waited until the black flag was hoisted.
                        Before he left Lahore he met Bara Sadat, who river pirates. Bara Sadat was
                        to have charge of the boat, Sobra Singh was to take care of the victims. It
                        was a great partnership, and succeeded admirably. Bara Sadat played the part
                        of boatman to perfection, and Sobra used to dress up like a Parsee merchant
                        and pick up the rich babas that were traveling up and down
                        the river. The babu, Bara and Sobra would travel up
                        together, Sobra and Bara would come back by themselves. Sobra taught Bara to
                        smoke opium, and after a successful pilgrimage, the two would lie in
                        Bara's boat, smoke themselves drunk, then wake and smoke again.
                    Then Sobra built a hut in Chandarnagar, near Calcutta. He took a wife to
                        himself and begot a child. It was a daughter. Sobra was hid-eous, his wife was frightful to look upon; the
                        child was beautiful. They called her Nur Mubarak, which means in English,
                        "the light of the blessed."
                    When the girl was twelve years old, she went one day to Calcutta on an errand
                        for her mother, and was met in the Kidderpur road by a beautiful white mem-sahib (lady), who was struck by the beauty of the
                        child. She was mature as a white girl of eighteen. Her form was rounded and
                        her step was firm. Her hair hung in a braid down her back, and her breasts
                        were bound in t her shoulder-cloth with fillets of silk. The white lady
                        stopped her and spoke to her in Hindoostanee. She thought the child would be
                        a pleasant ornament to have about the house. She offered to send her to
                        school. She wanted her for a personal servant. She pictured to the child in
                        glowing colors the splendors of her house; and the child, who knew nothing
                        of a home, save the dirty little hut at Chandarnagar, and nothing of
                        affection, save a beating from her parents, did not need much inducement to
                        lie to the white woman, to say that she was alone in  the world and would be glad to live with the white lady.
                    "Very well," said that august personage-she was the wife of
                        a commissioner, and could afford to condescend. " I live in
                        Dalhousie Square. You will come to me to-morrow, in the
                        afternoon."
                    " I will go home, and thou wilt never see me again," said
                        the child.
                    "I thought you had no home," said the lady.
                    "Well, I will go with the bad women, down beyond Lall
                        bazaar."
                    " Don't you want to come with met " said the lady
                        in surprise. The child was speaking in a hurt, determined way.
                    "If thou wishest me to live with thee, take me now. I am not to be
                        had for the asking. If thou takest me, and wilt be kind to me, I will serve
                        thee; if thou art cruel to me, Allah will curse thee."
                    Nur Mubarak had not met any white women save this one.
                    The lady shivered a little, and felt half in-clined to let the child go. Then she caught a glimpse of Nur
                        Mubarak's eyes, and they shone so soft and tender, and the
                        girllooked so pretty, that she said: "Well, get in here beside me,
                        child. I will take you home."
                    And she did. The commissioner complained a little at heathen being picked up
                        in this way by his wife, but as she was somewhat inclined to have her own
                        way, and ruled the commissioner as she ruled the coolies, Nur Mubarak was
                        installed as a lady's maid without more ado.
                    Sobra and Bara were away when this happened; and when they returned Sobra was
                        so angry to find his daughter gone that he forbore to get stupid with opium.
                        He got drunk on arrack, and, after searching for his child ineffectually, he
                        came back to his hut at Chandarnagar. The hut had only one door; a slit in
                        the matting that composed the walls was the only window. It was night when
                        he returned. The moonlight fell through the slit upon the face of his
                        wife--an ugly face.
                    "Thou hag," he said, "thou pig-faced baboon,
                        though shaitan-ka-huttchar [child of the devil],  what fate cursed me that I should be tied to
                        thee? Oh, hae Oh, hae! but thou art ugly. Thy face will not let me rest.
                        Allah ! I will sleep to-night !"
                    The woman was uneasy as she looked into her husband's eyes.
                    " Where is my child? " he went on. " Canst thou
                        with thy moon-face give her back to me? Bah A thou art fit to die, old
                        hag."
                    He slowly withdrew the turban from his head. He sat upon the ground and
                        slipped it around his knee. Bara Sadat was outside, but he came in when
                        Sobra whistled. " She has lived too long," said Sobra.
                        Bara nodded as he reached for one end of the cloth. He had often pulled
                        before. There was a sudden twist of the cloth--so sudden that the old woman
                        had no time to cry out-and it was around her neck. A turn of the cloth, a
                        few minutes, and it was all over. The two men carried the body to
                        Tolly's Nullah, and it floated down the Hooghly with the tide.
                    After the woman's untimely death, Sobra Singh and Bara Sadat
                        prospered in business.  They became lazy, and
                        Sobra grew fat. They gave up the hut at Chandarnagar, and only made trips up
                        and down the river when finances were low indeed. They used to haul the boat
                        up into Tolly's Nullah, and lie there for weeks at a time. Once in
                        a while they would get a victim in the Nullah; and this would do away with
                        the necessity for another trip. Both men became opium fiends, and smoked
                        regularly and long. The opium that they smoked cost more than their victuals
                        and clothes. It made them lazy and disinclined to work.
                    Two years went by, and the two men still haunted Tolly's Nullah,
                        only going out when they were obliged to. In all that time Sobra had not
                        heard of his daughter, and he had for some time ceased to think about her.
                        No human interest stays alive long when a man is in the grasp of opium.
                        Sometimes the old thug would dream of having her near him. He thought how
                        pleasant it would be to have someone to bring him his pipe and clean his
                        smoking lamp, but he usually ended by wiping the bowl  of his pipe with a rag greased with ghee and
                        rolling another pill to smoke.
                     He and Bara had many crimes credited to their account in the past, but after
                        years of steady and excessive smoking they were too tired to bother their
                        heads about anything except the getting of enough money to keep their pipes
                        full. They had degenerated into paltry river sneak-thieves. A sack of grain
                        would sell for enough to keep them in idleness for two weeks; there was no
                        need for overexertion. At the end of two years, even the trouble of taking
                        the boat out at night to prowl around the sleeping ships in the harbor
                        seemed to the two men to be hardly worth while. Sometimes they would go out
                        at dark making the tour of all the shipping without being able to get on
                        board a single vessel, and they would return to the Nullah without even so
                        much as a rope-yarn. Then they would lie in the boat all the next day with
                        nothing to smoke, nothing to drink, and they would swear and grumble at each
                        other until nightfall. They began to think that this kind of life was hardly
                        worth living. They set  their dull,
                        opium-soaked brains to work. They must devise some scheme to make life
                        bearable. It was Bars who finally hit upon a plan. The two men had been
                        without luck for a week. They had gone down the river past the Black Fort
                        and waited there for something to turn up. They had nothing to smoke and
                        little to eat. They were lying in'the long grass that skirts the
                        river bank, and the boat was hauled up into a little cove of the river.
                    " If we could have luck," said Bara.
                    " What then? " responded Sobra. "If we could have
                        luck; if we could catch a hundred-rupee traveler--what then? We would smoke
                        and eat, and in another week be without smoking and eating."
                    " Not so. I have a plan," said Bara. " I tell thee
                        I am sick of this. Thou art an old butcher, and hast had thy day, and what
                        hath it gained for thee? We are getting old, thou and I. It is time that we
                        lived at our ease. Let us get the money and we will buy one of the old
                        mud-pilot boats; they are large and have much room below. We can take her up
                        the  Nullah and put bunks aboard and get new
                        pipes, and those who wish can come and smoke. We can get opium cheap, and we
                        can mix it so that it will not cost much. We can watch the boat by turns and
                        live comfortably."
                    This was the plan, roughly formed. After some discussion it was decided upon.
                        The men having something to look forward to became younger for a time and
                        more like the old-time robbers.
                    Toward evening an English vessel was seen coming up the river. She had
                        disdained the services of a tug and was sailing up. The two men got out the
                        boat and fastened a tow-line to the vessel, and were taken up the river with
                        her. The men went on board and prowled around. The pilot was the only man
                        that had much money. He had a native servant. The servant was a native of
                        Taki, in the Guhranwala district, and Sobra, who got into conversation with
                        him frightened him half to death. Bara stayed on deck; Sobra went below with
                        the pilot's servant. At dusk the ship was opposite the King of
                        Oude's palace.
                    
                    "Get the boat ready," said the servant to Bara.
                    "Where is Sobra Singh?"
                    "He is down below. He is utcha. He told me to come
                        to you and tell you to have the boat pulled up to the counter. I go with
                        you."
                    Bara looked at the servant and smiled; then he got the boat up and waited. In
                        a minute or two the servant came on deck. He had a bundle, held concealed.
                        Sobra followed him closely. The two men helped get the servant, bundle and
                        all over the side; and then they followed him and cast the boat adrift. It
                        was dark at the time. Three hours later the boat arrived at Tolly's
                        Nullah, and Sobra handed the bundle out of the boat to Bara. The servant was
                        not with them.
                    Thus they got the capital. In a few weeks' time hey had bought an
                        old mud-pilot's boat and had hauled her up about half a mile into
                        Tolly's Nullah. She was cleaned throughout and bunks were fitted
                        up. She was made into a foating opium den. If left alone by the cursed
                        police, she would bring in plenty of money.
                    Sobra and Bara had reached the height of  their
                        ambition. The boat proved to be a success from the start. It was not kept
                        clean-the two men were too lazy for that-but it was always supplied with
                        arrack and opium, and the money came in steadily and in sufficient
                        quantities. Both rogues grew fatter and lazier than ever, and lived in
                        peace.
                    It was when the boat had been in operation for about a year that Sobra met
                        his daughter again. He had quite forgotten about her, and would never have
                        known her if she had not recognized him. He used to get his pipes from the
                        Rhudda bazaar. One day he walked along the dusty Chowringhee road to the
                        little shop, and bought half a dozen new pipes for his customers. He was
                        coming back with his load, and was passing the English cathedral, when a
                        girl with a basket on her head stopped him.
                    " Salaam, my father,"' she said.
                    The old man looked at her a moment with his bleary eyes. He could hardly
                        understand.
                    " Thy mother is dead," was the first thing he said when he
                        recognized her.
                    
                    "So," she replied. "Well, she lived an unhappy
                        life. And thou, old man, art thou well?"
                    "Well enough-well enough," he answered. "What hast
                        thou been doing all this weary time?"
                    "Oh! I have found a home," she said, and shrugged her
                        shoulders in a superior manner.
                    "A home! Selling betel-nut," giving a rapid glance at the
                        basket, which she had rested on her hip.
                    "Oh! but thou still hast eyes, I see. Well, then, I will tell thee
                        all of it. Thou art still my father. My mother sent me away to buy some
                        things for her. I was tired and hungry. A grand white lady saw me, and said
                        I was beautiful. She took me to her home and wanted to teach me, even me,
                        the things that the white mem-sahib know. She gave me
                        clothes and gold-worked slippers. See! I have them yet," putting
                        out her foot. "She kept me tight and would not let me free, but I
                        was happy. I should have been there yet, but that her brother, a young
                        Ferhingee, came to the house and saw me. He said he loved me, and the white
                        lady  heard him telling me of his love. She
                        spoke to me as if I were a dog, and said her brother was not for me. So I
                        left the place and he cared for me. He has been gone for two months now, and
                        so I sell this, for a person must live."
                    The old man looked at his daughter while she told this, and he noted that she
                        was still beautiful. He and Bara were in the habit of going along the
                        Chowringhee road and begging strangers to come down to the boat. He thought,
                        as he looked at her, that she could do this work better. She would be a good
                        decoy.
                    "Wilt thou come back with thy old father?" he said; and she
                        seemed inclined to the prospect; he expatiated on the beauties of his new
                        boat and compared it favorably with the old hut at Chandanagar. It ended in
                        her leaving her basket of betel-nut in the shade at the side of the road and
                        going back with him. She clapped her hands at the sight of Tolly's
                        Nullah and laughed when she saw the boat. Inside were two or three
                        rum-stupefied white sailors and a couple of insensible babus from the bazaars. Those of the patrons of the boat who saw
                        her  greeted her and begged her to stay. One of
                        the drunken sailors tried to kiss her. She slapped him in the face and her
                        father chuckled. This was her home-coming. It was new to her, but she seemed
                        to find it not distasteful.
                    She fell into the groove naturally. Many of the white customers of the boat
                        fell in love with her. She took no notice of them. She saw no wrong in the
                        opium business, or if she did she ignored it. She kept the boat clean, she
                        filled the pipes of the customers and she would enliven the evening by
                        crooning a song to the accompaniment of a tom-tom. She had a little cabin
                        near the stern of the boat and she was quite private there. She grew no
                        worse looking for the life.
                    One thing she refused to do. She would not solicit custom for the boat. In
                        spite of her savage old brute of a father she persisted in her
                        determination. "Nay! I will not," she said; "I am
                        thy daughter and thou canst kill me-as I suppose thou didst murder my
                        mother--but I will not do thy bidding. Someday my husband will come again.
                        Then I will leave thee. It is  not meet that a
                        white man's wife should play loose like a
                        light-o'-love."
                    For the first few months it did not matter. Then the hot season came on and
                        business grew bad. Sobra wanted to force his daughter out to solicit trade.
                        Bara was in love with her and he was against it. He thought that she would
                        forget the white man, and might become his. Bara was getting rather weary of
                        the company of Sobra. If anything went wrong Sobra never failed to threaten
                        Bara's life. "Remember, I am an old bhuttote. My father was a strangler," he would say, and
                        then he would look fiercely at Bara's neck. For the last year and a
                        half Bara had never been without a sharp, two-edged knife which he carried
                        in his waistcloth.
                    He was growing very tired of Sobra. The hoary-headed, bleary-eyed old
                        strangler was becoming childish. He would get half full of opium, and climb
                        the steep sides of Tolly's Nullah; then, standing on the bank, he
                        would cry aloud that he was the "champion bhuttote of them all." Luckily, the police had never  heard him, and Bara had always been able to
                        get him down to the boat again without mishap.
                    And then, as Bara thought the thing out, he came to feel that the boat was
                        not enough for the support of two. He had been doing all the work; he should
                        get all the profits. If Sobra were more careful, the boat would bring in
                        more. If Sobra would only get stupefied with opium and fall overboard--then
                        he could have Nur Mubarak and the boat to himself. In the meantime they had
                        not enough to eat.
                    All that day Bara pondered over a plan. In the evening he asked Sobra to go
                        with him on shore. They went up behind the Kali Ghat in the tall grass, and
                        there Bara told his old comrade that it was necessary for them to go back to
                        the old work. Money must be got, and that was the only way. He lied to the
                        old man. He told him that he had word of a German ship which was coming up
                        the river, and which they could overtake. Sobra was not pleased with the
                        idea, but he turned it over in his thick head, and finally agreed to it,
                        only remarking, "I'm  glad
                        its to-morrow night I won't smoke to-tomorrow."
                    In the morning Bara got speech with Nur Mubarak. She had lost a little of her
                        beauty, for she had not been living on the fat of the land recently. She was
                        still handsome enough to make Bara's blood boil as he sat next to her in the
                        half-light of morning and watched her bosom rise and fall.
                    She detested Bara nearly as much as she did her father, and her instincts
                        told her to distrust him more. She was very sick of living around the boat,
                        of seeing the opium-stupefied men stagger away in the morning. There was
                        only one thing in the world that would ever make her happy. She longed to
                        see her husband again. She always called him so; she always thought of him
                        as her husband. The taste of civilization she enjoyed had altogether
                        unfitted her for anything like happiness with a man of her own race.
                    She listened to Bara's schemes for her happiness with a sort of
                        cynical contempt. The only thing that interested her in what he said was  that he and her fatherwere going away that
                        morning and would leave the boat in her charge. They might be gone two days,
                        not more. That interested her. She had determined that she would leave them
                        all and try to get up country, away from the river and from all the people
                        she had known in Calcutta. She would try to go to Simla. She had heard her
                        husband speak of Simla as a place where he was in the habit of going in the
                        summer time. Bara wanted to know if she would leave the boat and marry him.
                        He promised to come back rich from his trip, and she knew where he proposed
                        to get the money. Still she smiled on him, and promised him she would go
                        with him. He counseled her to say nothing to her father. She promised she
                        would not, and she went back to the boat, the consultation over, humming a
                        nursing song.
                    Two hours later Bara and Sobra were floating with the tide down the Hooghly
                        River.
                    After they were gone Nur Mubarak washed herself in the Nullah and clothed
                        herself in clean, white garments. Then she sat down on the bank of the
                        Nullah near the Hastings bridge.  She had on
                        her prettiest nose ring, and the parting of her hair was made bright with
                        the best vermillion. She looked her best. All through the hot morning she
                        sat there.
                    In the afternoon she said she would pack up her few belongings and leave the
                        boat and Calcutta far behind. She indulged in the most fanciful day-dreams.
                        People passed to and fro across the steel bridge. She scarcely saw them and
                        never noticed them. Toward the end of the morning she did notice a man
                        standing in the middle of the bridge. She could see he was a white man, and
                        he looked like a police officer. There seemed to be something about him that
                        was familiar, but what she could not quite make out. He stood on the bridge
                        for about an hour, looking up and down the Nullah. Then he turned around and
                        started to walk away. She recognized her husband. In a few minutes she had
                        caught up with him. She had run along the bank of the Nullah, and had
                        climbed up the steel supports of the bridge. He was on the other side of the
                        bridge when she caught his arm.
                    "Henri--sahib! Dost thou not know
                        me?"
                    
                    The man turned around, startled. Seeing who it was, and recognizing her
                        instantly, he turned red in the face and said: 
                    "It's you, is it? I thought you'd turn up some
                        day. Where did you come from?"
                    She pointed down the Nullah.
                    "Oh, down there! You don't happen to know anything about an
                        opium boat down there, do you?"
                    At the question she looked more closely at him, and seemed in that glance to
                        grasp the meaning of his police uniform. He wore the dress of an inspector
                        of police.
                    "Am I not thy wife?" she said. "Dost though not
                        love me still?"
                    "Oh, I say, you know, Nur, that kind of thing was all right some
                        time ago. I'm married now and settled down. Don't talk in
                        that strain--let's be sensible."
                    The coarse English voice and the manner of speaking conveyed more to her than
                        the words themselves. She realized at once that she had been living in the
                        memory of a hopeless past, and that what she longed for could never be.  She walked hopelessly along the dusty road
                        with him, replying nothing to his brusque questions, and contenting herself
                        with looking in his face. She asked him where he lived. Presently he showed
                        her the large white house with the native servants, and she saw an ayah with a little bundle of white in her arms, which she
                        knew was a Christian baby. She felt a wrench at her heart-strings, and she
                        knew at last that her worst fears were come true. She told the officer that
                        she had been living in the Nullah for some time, and when he asked her about
                        the opium boat again she told him that she had never heard of such a thing;
                        that it couldn't be possible that there was such a thing in
                        Tolly's Nullah or she would have heard of it. He believed her and
                        doubted the word of his native officers, who had informed him that people
                        had been robbed in an old mud-pilot's boat in the Nullah. The
                        Nullah was one of the most difficult places in Calcutta to watch, and he
                        rather congratulated himself on having found Nur Mubarak, who would keep him
                        informed on what went on down there. He could thus allow her the pay of a
                             secret service employee without feeling
                        that he was making the government pension an old sweetheart.
                    Nur Mubarak left him at the edge of the Maidan and went
                        back to the boat alone. Henry Blake, the police officer, tried to give her
                        some money before she left him, but she would not take it.
                    "Well, then, good-bye," he said. "If you ever need
                        anything, come and see me."
                    And this was her meeting with her "husband"! This was the
                        happiness that was in store for her. A native girl is not much given to
                        weeping, but Nur Mubarak went back to the boat and cried for an hour. Then
                        when a half-drunken sailor wanted to come aboard she tipped over the
                        gang-plank in a fit of rage, and had nearly thrown him into the water.
                    It was two days before Bara's boat got back into the Nullah. Both
                        Bara and Sobra were in her. Bara had intended to get away with the old man
                        down the river, but his heart had failed him at the last minute. They had
                        gathered much spoil in the two days they were gone.  Both felt rather surprised that Nur Mubarak sat quiet and
                        sullen, and did not rejoice with them. Oh, how she detested them! There was
                        no customer on the boat when they arrived, and they pulled the gang-plank
                        aboard so that none could come. They shut the hatchway and went below.
                    They sat on the floor, Nur Mubarak beside them. They began to open their
                        store. They had gold and silver and paper money of different kinds, watches
                        and knives and valuables of every description. They chuckled with delight,
                        but at each tale of robbery Nur Mubarak became more and more disgusted.
                    "I feel ill," she said. "Let me out. I will be
                        back by and by."
                    "All right," grunted Bara. He gave her a look which he
                        intended to be significant, and the look with which she answered it seemed
                        to him to be fraught with meaning. He thought she was dazzled at the display
                        of wealth.
                    The girl left the boat, and stayed away till dusk. She sat and watched the
                        people on the Hastings bridge, and wondered how often Henry  Blake had passed along there without her
                        having seen him. She was heart-sick and so very tired of it all. She did not
                        know what to do to get rest. She determined that at any rate she would have
                        no more to do with her father or the opium boat. She would not inform on
                        them, but she would have no more of them. She decided that in the morning
                        she would go away. She did not know where; she did not care. She would
                        simply walk out of the city and never come back. Her resolution taken, she
                        started to go back to the boat to spend her last night there. She was not
                        afraid of Bara; she knew her father would protect her from him, if
                        protection were needed. It was dark when she got to the boat again. The
                        gang-plank was still overboard. Luckily she did not need it. She rolled up
                        her silkien trousers and waded to the boat. She walked up the chains that
                        held it to the bank. She went down by the forward stairway, and found that
                        only one lamp was lighted. By its faint light she saw Bara, kneeling on the
                        floor and packing the valuables in an oilskin 
                        valise. He heard her coming, and turned around sharply.
                    "Not so much noise," he said.
                    "The noise I make can not be heard," she replied.
                    "True, true," he replied, with an ugly laugh. "I
                        forgot that he can not hear."
                    "Who is it can not hear?" she asked him. She was a little
                        startled at the triumphant tone in the man's voice.
                    "Thy father can not hear. He tried to strangle me, and we fought.
                        See-there he lies. I have killed him."
                    The girl started back in affright She could barely distinguish in the
                        half-light the body of a man on the floor. Bara came forward and tried to
                        tell her that he and her father had quarreled but to satisfy herself she
                        went to the dead body and turned it over.
                    "You need not have struck him in the back," she said.
                    
                    She was not afraid of Bara, even then. She knew that he wanted her, and she
                        realized that her power over him would suffice to get her off the boat. She
                        was not much horrified at the murder. She had been familiar with crime too
                        long for that. She felt a little sorry for her father, and hated the man who
                        had professed to be her father's friend and had ended by killing
                        him. She would have killed her father's murderer herself if she had
                        been able. He came forward and clasped her in his arms. He pressed his lips
                        to hers and told her that he had only killed her father so that he could
                        possess her and have plenty to live, on. Even as he clasped her to him, she
                        felt the hard knife in his waistcloth and knew that if he were not sure of
                        her he would plunge it into her. He told her that they would go into the
                        country and get a small farm, where they could live comfortably and
                        honestly. She agreed to all he said, and let his protestations of love pass
                        without comment.
                    Then she lied to him.
                    "Very well," she said. "Up behind the Ghat I have
                        a small store of money and jewels  hid. Get
                        ready the things on the boat, and I will go and get what I have
                        hid."
                    He wanted to go with her, but she would not let him. She kissed him before
                        she went, to allay his suspicions. As she passed out of the boat, she spat
                        into the water.
                    "The snake!" she muttered.
                    She crossed the Hastings bridge, fearing he might be watching her. On the
                        other side she started to run, and she did not stop until she reached the
                        house of Henry Blake. The house was in darkness. It was past 11
                        o'clock. She had an angry conference with the butler, who had
                        roused out of bed to answer her knocking on the door. She must see
                        "Blake Sahib." It was ten minutes before the butler would
                        consent to wake his master. Then she had to wait another ten minutes while
                        Blake dressed and came down. Her heart beat fearfully. When Blake came, he
                        was surprised to see her. She had a wild look in her eyes. He thought she
                        was going to make trouble for him. Before he had time to speak, she had
                        guessed what he was thinking.
                    
                    " I came to see you about the opium-boat," she said.
                    She told him that she had found the opium-boat, and that she knew one man had
                        killed another on board it. She told him that if he would go at once he
                        could catch the murderer on board. Blake rather suspected a trick, but he
                        went to the telephone and called for a half dozen police. She thought he was
                        wasting time talking to the "God-machine" on the wall. She
                        was satisfied when she saw the men come.
                    "All right, men," said Blake, "follow the
                        woman."
                    He gave them a few directions, and the men followed Nur Mubarak, who walked
                        on steadily in front of them. Blake spoke to her, but she did not answer
                        him. As they passed under the electric lights of Fort William's
                        landing he noticed that she was crying.
                    " Is the man who was slain a friend of yours?" he
                        asked.
                    "Nay," she replied. "I did not know
                        him."
                    She had been gone nearly an hour when she  got
                        back to the boat. She told Blake that she would go on board and leave the
                        hatch open, and then the police could come on board without noise. She
                        cautioned them to be quiet and capture the murderer quickly or he would kill
                        her. They promised to obey her warning.
                    Bara Sadat was waiting for her impatiently. When she did not return in
                        fifteen minutes he blamed himself for having let her go. When half an hour
                        had passed he concluded that she did not intend to come back, and he cursed
                        himself for his stupidity. Then he threw the body of his old friend Sobra
                        into the Nullah, having determined to leave the boat and see if he could
                        find the girl near the Kali Ghat. He had just finished his labor when Nur
                        Mubarak returned. He received her with every protestation of joy. He forgot
                        his dreary wait, but was rather surprised to see the girl look around the
                        boat, and to hear her say:
                    "Where is my father?"
                    "I have thrown it over," answered Bara. " Have you
                        everything ready?" he continued.
                    
                    "Yes," she replied. " I left my bundle on the
                        bank."
                    As she said it she saw the half-naked form of one of the native police glide
                        down the hatchway; then another; then she caught sight of boots, and she
                        knew that Blake was coming. The native police had been quiet, and were
                        creeping near Bara. She stepped to one side. She knew they would rush on him
                        in a moment. Then--Blake's foot slipped, and he fell to the bottom
                        of the ladder with a crash!
                    "Allah!" cried Bara. He gave a frightened look around and
                        grasped the situation.
                    "Toom shaitan!" [you devil] he screamed.
                        "You have brought the police!"
                    Nur Mubarak laughed as she saw the police closing in upon him--no escape was
                        possible. With a muttered curse Bara sprang toward her, and although she
                        tried to elude him he was upon her. She gave a fearful scream and fell to
                        the floor. He had plunged his knife into her breast. A shot from
                        Blake's revolver brought him to the floor and prevented a
                        repetition of the blow. In a moment he was hand-cuffed and lay on the floor, writhing and cursing the police. Blake rushed
                        to the girl. The blood flowed in a torrent from a fearful wound.
                    "He has thrown the man into the Nullah," she said.
                        "The blood is in the fore part of the boat."
                    One of the police had already found evidence of the murder. Blake dispatched
                        two men for an ambulance. He drew a flask from his pocket and forced a drop
                        of brandy between the lips of the girl. She was fast dying. He supported her
                        his arms.
                    "Allah is good," she said faintly, "to let me die
                        in your arms." Then there was silence for a moment.
                        "It-was-my-father--that--he--killed," she gasped.
                        "Thou--wilt--see--that-he-is-punished?"
                    " By God! I'll see that he is hanged," said
                        Blake.
                    The men had not returned with the doctor. He realiezed that they would come
                        too late.
                    " Nur, darling," he said.
                    She opened her eyes and smiled to see'him bending over her.
                    
                    "I say, Nur, can't you say some kind of prayer-you
                        know?"
                    "My-prayer-has-been-granted," she said faintly.
                        "Thou-art-happy-with-thy --wife--and--child.
                        Now--I--am--happy--with-thee. Allah-has-been-very-good."
                    She lay still a moment, and then--
                    "Salaam-my-sahib," she said, "kiss-
                        me-my-lord," and she died in his arms.
                
                
                
                    THE FINDING OF THE SHIP
                    
                        
                            
                                Wot's the use o' gold when
                                    you're going out to sea?
                                Spend yer money freely, boys!
                                Ye can't buy beer nor kisses when old
                                    England's on yer lee.
                                Spend yer money freely, boys!
                                Before you gets to port again the wind'll
                                    howl and blow;
                                I'll be a thinking of yer, Jack, a-lying
                                    down below;
                                That's more'n the other
                                    girl'll do, in the land to which ye go.
                                So--spend yer money freely, boys!
                            
                            CHORUS--
                            
                                Heave-ho! Away we go!
                                Rattle 'round the capstan, make a
                                    bloomin' noise.
                                Throw a kiss to Polly. Say goodbye to Molly,
                                And--spend yer money freely, boys!
                            
                        
                        
                            --Sailor's Chantie
                        
                    
                    IT was shortly after the close of the Indian mutiny when
                        the great bore of the Hooghly river did such damage to the city of Calcutta
                        and to the villages along the banks. For three days the Indian Ocean had
                        been swept by a southeast monsoon, blowing hot and strong, and hundreds of
                        luckless vessels, nearing port, were  heard of
                        no more. The bore started on the third day. It came swifter than the
                        telegraph, and there was no one to warn the shipping lying along the east
                        bank of the river in front of Calcutta, from Garden Reach to Chandernagore.
                        As the tidal wave rolled, amid the fury of the storm, it formed a solid wall
                        over five feet in height. The sky overhead was yellow--a sickly
                        yellow-fading away on the edges into green. It was a sky to frighten
                        sailors; it had the malevolent look of an evil man's eyes. The bore
                        traveled faster than any railway train had ever gone up to that time. It
                        tore along in company with the stifling wind, almost silently. Just a slight
                        rolling noise, as of an incoming tide; nothing to indicate that the wave
                        carried death to hundreds of souls and destruction to property valued at
                        thousands of pounds.
                    Starting at two o'clock in the afternoon and traveling at forty-two
                        miles an hour (the rate of speed was registered by the British weather
                        bureau established at Sagor), it reached Calcutta a little before five. Its
                        fury was not abated. Tossed on the crest of the angry wave was the  debris of many native craft which had been
                        picked up and dashed to pieces on the way. Sucked in the flood that followed
                        the wave, were the bodies of many native boatmen who had been caught in the
                        bore's angry embrace. At Garden Reach the bore caught the first
                        English ship. It struck her stern first, forced her from her moorings, broke
                        her cables as if they had been threads. The sudden jerk with which the
                        vessel was struck snapped off her masts close by the board. The ship was
                        raised up one moment, dashed down the next, and then she swept along with
                        the wave; a ship no longer, merely a mass of broken wood and torn cordage.
                        In an hour from that time over eight hundred vessels had been destroyed. The
                        swollen river was filled with half-wrecked vessels, with the moorings broken
                        and part of their crews lost. Over a hundred vessels were stranded high and
                        dry hundreds of yards from the bank of the river, carried there by the
                        irresistible wave. The wind changed that evening and blew down the river.
                        The waters were still swollen, and outside, in the Indian Ocean,  the waves were lashed into wildest fury. It
                        seemed to be certain destruction for any ship to be caught outside.
                    Among the ships reported lost when the list was made up was the Honeymoon, an
                        English barque of one thousand tons. She had been chartered by the former
                        sovereign of Delhi and Ajmik, Muhammad Shahab, to convey forty lacs of rupees, in specie, to the Nawab of Maier Kotla, as
                        indemnity, growing out of a recent petty war. The mutiny had delayed the
                        consumantion of the negotiations and only at this time was the vessel
                        chartered and the money sent, according to the previous arrangment.
                    The Honeymoon was in rock ballast, her only cargo being the money. The major
                        part of it was in silver, and all of it was stored in sacks, each sealed
                        with the signet ring of the treasurer of Muhammad Shahab. She was manned by
                        ten English sailors and three officers. Besides these there was a native
                        agent who had nominal charge of the specie.
                    The captain of this vessel had sailed long in Indian waters, and the sky had
                        given him warn-ing of what was coming. He had
                        been below Fort William on the day the bore came and he had hauled his ship
                        up into one of the numerous estuaries, and had thus avoided destruction. The
                        bore passed, he had thought he was safe and had started down the river. Then
                        the wind changed and increased in force until it blew a hurricane. The ship
                        drove down the river before the wind at a terrific rate, and it was only the
                        skillful handling of the ship that prevented her instant destruction. On the
                        evening of that day she was sighted by the watchers in the Sagor lighthouse,
                        sailing in a southeasterly direction, traveling fast under fore topsail and
                        storm jib. She was never reported again. None of her crew was ever heard of;
                        the ship was lost and nearly $2,000,000 with her.
                    The bore was soon forgotten, but the loss of the Honeymoon remained an
                        alluring subject with sailors and thos of a curious turn of mind. Some
                        thought she had been sunk at sea; others reasoned that she had been driven
                        ashore. Ten years after her loss a native fisherman, who had all his life
                        made a living on the river, began to  build a
                        fine house in Calcutta. He hired servants and learned to read. The police
                        suspected him of crime and he was arrested. A bag of gold moidores was found
                        in his hut, and a pile of silver in a hole in the earth under his bed. He
                        refused to say where he had got them. Fishing companions of the man told the
                        police that he had brought the money in his boat up the river. The story got
                        into the papers and it was believed that the man had found the Honeymoon. He
                        refused to divulge his secret, if he held one, even when he was offered
                        one-third of the contents of the vessel if she should be recovered through
                        his efforts. Careful watch was kept on him for three years in the hope that
                        his secret might be discovered. He died at the end of that time, giving no
                        sign.
                    It was reasoned that the vessel must be lying in the swamps near the mouth of
                        the Ganges, and three years after the death of the native fisherman a party
                        of five, three Englishmen and two Americans, purchased a steam launch and
                        went on a searching expedition.
                    They started at the edge of the Sunderbunds, 
                        penetrating the swamps by way of one of the small creeks that cut the swamps
                        up into islands. No man hindered them, but the wild beasts preyed upon them.
                        The Englishman who was steering one evening was killed by a tiger which
                        leaped on board from the overhanging bank; one of the men was bitten by a
                        cobra and died. The rest of the party were attacked with the cholera, and
                        only one man of the expedition returned. At other times other searches were
                        made. They all proved fruitless, and the vessel was finally given up as
                        hopelessly lost.
                    In the year 18--, a government steamer sailed from Calcutta bearing a load of
                        prisoners. They were mostly white men--sailors that had committed crimes on
                        the high seas, or while ashore on drunken sprees. They had filled the jails
                        in Calcutta, Bombay and other cities. A recent order from home had commanded
                        the governor of the district to have the prisoners that were able-bodied
                        taken to Madras to work on the new breakwater there. The steamer carried two
                        hundred of them. They all wore the hideous 
                        convict garb of dull gray, marked here and there with the government sign of
                        the broad arrow. Each man was chained by arm and leg to a fellow-prisoner.
                        They were a vicious and ugly lot.
                    The captain of this vessel had won his position through influence, and he was
                        not going to work too hard. He did not travel down the river with his
                        unsavory cargo, but ordered the steamer to wait for him at Sagor. He kept
                        the vessel waiting three days. He joined her on the evening of the third
                        day, and graciously gave his officers permission to start for Madras on the
                        morrow.
                    That night two sets of prisoners, who had industriously been filing at their
                        irons for three days, managed to file them through and to stretch their arms
                        and legs for the first time in days. They were all of them sailors. They had
                        belonged to the same ship. There had been a mutiny in the Indian Ocean, and
                        the first mate had been killed. The crime lay among these four men. All four
                        of them could not be hanged; not one would "peach" on the
                             others, and so the four had been sentenced
                        to penal servitude for ten years.
                    The prisoners were kept between decks. They were ranged in rows along the
                        sides of the vessel. A dim and smoky lantern hanging from a beam was all the
                        light they had. There were no guards below, but a man with a loaded rifle
                        stood over each hatchway, and no one could pass either up or down.
                    The four men having got rid of their fetters gathered in a group and
                        discussed their plans in whispers. They had gathered the whereabouts of the
                        ship from the talk of the guards. If they were to escape, it must be now,
                        while the vessel was near the land. On the other hand, if they escaped at
                        all they must swim for it, and the water at the river's mouth was
                        known to be full of sharks. The land they knew, too, was the haunt of tigers
                        and jackals, besides creeping things that were dangerous to step upon. They
                        knew they could not reach the shore with boots on, and they tried to think
                        that it would not be very perilous to tramp through the jungle bare-foot.
                        The natives did it, why not they?
                    
                    At midnight the guard at the hatchways was changed. On the bridge there stood
                        the officer of the watch. On the forecastle stood one of the crew. Others of
                        the watch sat under the forecastle, nodding.
                    The guard at the main hatchway stood looking out over the water. There was a
                        bright moon overhead, and it silvered the water, making a lane of rippling
                        light leading from the ship to the land. Occasionally, from the land would
                        come the roar of wild beasts. Far away on the left the Sagor lighthouse shot
                        out a glare from its lantern, creating a silvery lane in rivalry of that
                        made by the Indian moon.
                    The officer on the bridge was humming, "Knocked
                            'em in the Old Kent Road," and thinking of his
                        little home in Camberwell. Everything was quiet, and for the time the evil
                        cargo below was forgotten.
                    Crash! the guard over the main hatchway went down with a groan. The leader of
                        the four convicts had felled him with one blow from the bunched irons that
                        had held the four. It made a weight of thirty pounds, and crushed in the  skull of the guard. The noise of the man
                        falling attracted the other guards, but before they had time to act, one,
                        two, three, four silent figures darted up the hatchway, rushed to the
                        bulwarks, and, without hesitation, jumped into the sea. A few shots were
                        fired, an alarm was raised, but no boat was sent after the escaping men. The
                        officer did not know how many men below were free, and he thought it best to
                        make sure of those that remained. The captain came on deck, angry at having
                        his slumbers disturbed, and when he learned what had happened he remarked,
                        "Poor devils, they'll be dead in two days." Next
                        morning the steamer sailed.
                    Of the four men that escaped only three reached land. One, the one that was
                        last in the race, had been heard by the others to give a fearful cry, and
                        the foremost man, looking back, had seen his hands raised, as if in
                        supplication, and then he had disappeared beneath the water. It was sharks,
                        and the leader struck out for the land with faster and stronger strokes,
                        reaching the shore exhausted. In a few minutes the  other two men landed. The one that had come first did not offer
                        to help the one that came next, and the two that were landed safely did not
                        offer to extend a hand to the man who came in last. It was each man for
                        himself. They threw themselves on the sand alongside of the first man. They
                        lay there breathing hard, like tired hounds. Their eyes were turned toward
                        the steamer from which they had just come.
                    "Either of you fellows hit?" asked the man that had got
                        ashore first. There was no answer from the others.
                    "I wouldn't swim that piece again for a fortune,"
                        he said then and lay back, panting, the full moon shining on his evil face
                        and evil clothes.
                    "Poor Tom!" said one of the other men after a while.
                    "Yes. The sharks done for him," said the other.
                        "I'm damned if I didn't think there were a
                        million of them."
                    "Poor Tom, nothing," growled the man who had been the first
                        ashore. "If those sharks hadn't got Tom they'd
                        ha' got us, and I guess  I'm
                        satisfied with the way things is. Shut up, you, with your poor
                        Tom."
                    The other men kept quiet and neither of them spoke more to the surly man.
                        Instead, they talked together in whispers. The three men were John Gubbins,
                        boatswain; Henry Corr and Jim Kitchen, able seamen. Gubbins had been the
                        leader of the mutiny aboard their vessel, and it was he who, with a belaying
                        pin, had killed his first mate. The others were ordinary types of the common
                        sailor-rough, unlettered, unmannered seamen; none too honest, either of
                        them, yet shrinking at murder and abhorring and fearing the murderer. In the
                        matter of killing the guard on the steamer, it was necessary for their
                        freedom, and they had had small compunctions about it.
                    The three men lay where they landed, watching the steamer, to see whether
                        perchance she would send a boat after them. None came; the steamer became
                        quiet again and the men recovered their strength.
                    "Well, if you fellows are coming, come on,  follow me," sad Gubbins, risin to his feet.
                        "I wish to God I had my boots here. I was a damned fool to think of
                        traveling without 'em. I bet we'll be bloody well dead
                        inside of a week."
                    He turned his face to the north and started off through the darkness. The
                        others made as if to follow him, then they turned to the left and ran off in
                        another direction.
                    John Gubbins walked for five minutes without noticing that they were gone;
                        then he stopped and listened. He could have heard them breaking through the
                        jungle if they had been coming. He raised his hands to his mouth and yelled
                        for them. He got no response. He yelled again:
                    "For God's sake, you fellows! Don't be damn fools!
                        Don't leave a man like this in this God-forsaken hole. Come on here
                        and let's get inland! Come on! Come on, say! By God,
                        they've gone!"
                    The man sank to his knees and buried his face in his hands. He sobbed like a
                        child. The sense of desertion struck him more keenly  than a blow from a whip. "My God! even the convicts
                        shun me!" he said. "I killed that guard for us all. It
                        wasn't for me alone I did it. Now the cowards go off and leave me.
                        I can't go alone, in the Sunderbunds. It means certain death. No
                        shoes, no knife, nothing to eat." He raised himself to his feet in
                        a sudden passion of rage. He shook his fists in the direction from which he
                        had come. "You cowardly dogs!" he cried. "If you
                        run across my path again I'll kill you. Go and starve, you
                        hell-hounds, or eat each other, damn you! I'm well rid of
                        you!" He turned his face toward the north again and tramped
                        steadily but painfully on.
                    Henry Corr and Jim Kitchen ran along the beach for about a mile. Then they
                        heard some one shouting, and they halted for a moment. They knew it must be
                        Gubbins calling to them, and they tried to make out what he said. The wind
                        was blowing from him to them, but they could not distinguish a word. Kitchen
                        said: "I believe he's a-swearing," and such was
                        the  fearsome influence that Gubbins held over
                        these two men that they talked in whispers. When they could hear the voice
                        no longer they walked on for a mile or two more. Then Kitchen sat down on
                        the sand.
                    "What are you waiting for?" asked Corr.
                    Without answer, Kitchen held up his foot. It was bleeding. Corr looked at his
                        feet; they were bleeding, too. The men had on loose blouses marked with
                        broad arrows. Underneath them they wore coarse cotton shirts. They took off
                        the blouses and, with their teeth, tore them into strips and bound up each
                        other's feet. They made their feet unwieldy bundles, but they did
                        not pain them much in walking, and as Corr remarked: "We
                        don't know where we're a-going, so we needn't be
                        in such a bloomin' hurry."
                    They were on one of the swamp islands of the Sunderbunds, and there was no
                        path anywhere. As far as was known, there was not a human being living in
                        the Sunderbunds. All around them they were disturbed by the roaring of wild
                        beasts, and as they sat binding up each other's feet there were
                        three or four small jackals came up close  and
                        snarled. They had been attracted by the trail of blood left by
                        Kitchen's feet. Close by the men stood a tali, an
                        ironwood tree, with a heavy branch near the ground. The two men went to it
                        and tried to twist off a limb. It proved too much for them. Then Kitchen
                        brought some stones and heavy shells from the at last they got the limb off.
                        It made two heavy bludgeons, and the men felt safer when they had them in
                        their hands. They realized that their only hope of safety was to get
                        northward, and to strike the Hooghly or the Ganges; so, just as day was
                        breaking, they pushed into the jungle with their faces toward the north.
                    The sun came out beating down upon them. They were without hats, but they
                        fashioned head coverings out of palm leaves. In the middle of the morning
                        they came to a broad stream. They did not know whether it was a river or an
                        inlet from the ocean. Kitchen said: " Let's taste it. If
                        it's salt it's the ocean, and we're on an
                        island." The water proved salt, and the men  swam across it, reaching another island. They hardly spoke to
                        each other. They tramped steadily onward. In the afternoon they reached a
                        river, a little muddy stream, but the water was the first they had seen that
                        could be drunk at all. They had been afraid that they were to die of thirst,
                        and they hailed the river with delight. They drank, washed and bathed their
                        feet in the brackish water. Corrsaw a turtle on the bank, but when he tried
                        to get towards it the reptile slid into the water. Corr lay down at the
                        water's edge close to where the turtle had disappeared and watched
                        for its return. He disturbed a cobra that was lying in the sun. The snake
                        glided away with raised head and an angry hiss. Corr lay by the bank of the
                        river for fully an hour; then the turtle came back. Corr lay as still as
                        death until the turtle was fairly on land, then he brought down his
                        iron-wood club on its shell and managed to capture it. They had to beat the
                        turtle to pieces over a stone. They ate it raw, for they had nothing with
                        which to make a light. Corr's mouth and hands were covered with the
                        thick blood. Kitchen had  eaten his fill; he
                        looked up and the sun was shining on Corr's bloody face.
                        "For God's sake, wash your face," said
                        Kitchen.
                    As night fell they built a sort of camp of bamboos and fallen saplings. Corr
                        slept while Kitchen watched; then Kitchen slept and Corr watched. The next
                        day they had to cross water twice. Each time they got wet through, On the
                        third day they were going along as usual, when out of the noisy silence of
                        the jungle they heard a voice. It was that of a native. They crept on
                        cautiously until they were upon a cultivated field. They saw a native
                        plowing with one ox. He had a small field of rice and same mealies planted.
                        They knew he would not recognize their costume, and they went to him boldly.
                        The native was frightened, and would have run, but Kitchen caught and
                        stopped him. He took them to his poor hut. He gave the two men rice, mealies
                        and some fish. Kitchen stole his line, while he was not looking, and Corr
                        managed to get hold of a steel plow-share, the only metal thing he could
                        see. It  was sharp from constant use. They
                        slept in the native's hut. The wife of the man put ointment on
                        their wounds. Their faces and hands were blistered and scratched. In the
                        morning they left. The native told them it was one hundred and fifty miles
                        to the Hooghly river. He pointed them toward the northwest. They felt much
                        refreshed and started off again. Daring the morning Corr tore some cloth
                        from his trousers and bound the plowshare to his iron-wood club. It made a
                        weapon like an axe. They came to a stream in the afternoon, and Kitchen
                        caught some fish. They had stolen a tinder-box from the native and they were
                        able to light a fire at night to keep off the animals.
                    For eight days they toiled on in this manner. They saw no more human beings,
                        and got no more help. Sometimes they got cocoanuts that had fallen from the
                        palm; they were too weak to climb after them. They lived on fish and
                        creeping things. Then Corr took ill. He had a heavy chill on the eighth day.
                        They had crossed many streams and had dried in the sun.  They were in the midst of a swamp, Sometimes they were walking
                        in a foot of water. The reeds and the jungle grass were higher than their
                        heads. Corr became so ill that he could hardly walk. Kitchen helped him
                        along for a time until they came to a broad stream. It was filled with salt
                        water, but it was still, not running. He could not help Corr across. He laid
                        him down, got him some water and sat beside him.
                    He tried to think what to do. He felt that he could not travel the rest of
                        the fearful journey alone. He knew he could not live where he had halted.
                        Corr might linger on for days; in the meantime he would starve. He began to
                        despair for the first time since his escape. As night fell he was so
                        despondent that he forebore to light a fire. Corr was delirious. In his
                        fever he had forgotten the clothes he wore and the dangers he had gone
                        through, and was muttering indistinctly about the Mile-end road and a
                        cottage at Hampstead heath. His fevered mind was in the London streets.
                    " I wish to hell I could have a fever if a blok can get to London so
                        quick," said Kitchen.
                    
                    As he was bending over, listening to Corr's ramblings, he seemed to
                        hear a man's voice. He rose to his feet, and, with his hand to his
                        ear, listened intently. On the faint breeze he could hear above the rustling
                        of the jungle reeds a voice singing:
                            
                                "And every jolly Jack
                                Will soon be coming back
                                With a pocket full of gold for his sweetheart."
                            
                        
                    
                    There was no mistake about it. Kitchen fell to his knees and bent over Corr.
                        "Corr, man," he cried, shaking him by the shoulder.
                        "Cheer up, man; here's help at last. I hear a man near by
                        us. Wake up, man! Brace up a minute!"
                    By sheer force he raised up the man, burning with fever, and got him to stand
                        on his feet. The tropical moon was directly overhead, and made it almost as
                        light as day. He placed his arm around Corr, and, half carrying him, half
                        supporting him, he started off in the direction of the voice. There were
                        intervals of silence, broken only by the noise of the creeping  things, but evety little while the voice would
                        be heard again. The jungle was rank, the reeds high, but the men pushed on,
                        getting nearer and nearer to the voice. In one hand Kitchen carried
                        Corr's weapon-the plowshare on the club. He could hear the voice
                        again. It was swearing now, and had a strangely familiar sound. Suddenly,
                        through an opening in the reeds, he came to a partially smooth place. It was
                        swampy and overgrown with weeds and moss. In the center was a black shape,
                        as of a mound of earth and plants. On it sat John Gubbins.
                    As the two men came in sight Gubbins leaped down from his perch, and then
                        Kitchen saw that he had an old cutlass in his hand.
                    "What in the hell do you want?" shouted Gubbins.
                        "Come, now, I won't have it; do you hear? This is my place
                        and not yours. I found it, and I'm going to stick to it, every
                        bloody dollar. Get to hell out of here! You ran away from me after I got yer
                        free; now you just go on and don't come around me, or I'll
                        show you bloody well what for."
                    
                    Gubbins was rid of his convict clothes. He had on a coat of blue broadcloth,
                        with gold buttons, and a pair of dirty white duck trousers. His feet were
                        incased in sea boots.
                    "Corr's sick," said Kitchen; "I heard
                        your voice and thought I could get help for him when I heard
                        you."
                    "Well, you can't; so be off," said Gubbins, with
                        an oath. He hesitated a moment; then he said:
                    "I'll tell you what I'll do, Kitchen.
                        Corr's booked; I can see that with half an eye. He's got
                        to croak. You're all right. You stay with me and be under my orders
                        and I'll give yer--let me see--I'll give yer a thousands
                        pounds and some good clothes to put on."
                    Kitchen was struck with the idea that Gubbins had gone mad, and he took a
                        firmer grip of the plowshare. Corr lay between the two men. Gubbins saw the
                        doubt in Kitchen's eye, and, reaching into his pocket, he pulled
                        out a handful of gold and silver and pitched some of the coins to Kitchen.
                        "Believe that, will you.  That bloody
                        ship there's loaded with 'em. I bet there's ten
                        million pounds aboard of her."
                    " Is that a ship? " asked Kitchen.
                    "Of course it is. Masts gone. Two dead men on her deck when I came.
                        Nothing but bones and clothes. Nothing to eat worth having in the hold.
                        Nothing but money. Sacks of it; hold full of it."
                    "How did it come here?" asked Kitchen.
                    "How in the hell do I know. If you'd a told me it was here,
                        miles inland, I'd ha' said you was lying; but here she
                        is."
                    " Help me with Corr, then," said Kitchen, "and
                        I'm with you."
                    Gubbins and Kitchen lifted the hot body of Corr and carried him to the ship.
                        She was lying over on one side, half buried in the swamp. The stumps of her
                        masts were covered with moss and creeping vines. A tall palm grew by her
                        side, and its broad leaves overhung the deck. On the stern, that half of it
                        that was out of the swamp, the word "Honey" could be
                        seen.
                    Corr was carried up the deck and propped up, then Gubbins took Kitchen into
                        the cabin and  down through a small hatchway
                        to the hold, where he showed him a number of sacks piled in disorder.
                    "Every bloody one of 'em filled with money, he said.
                    Kitchen went to see for himself. He cut one sack open with the plowshare and
                        out rolled silver rupees.
                    "We are millionaires," he said.
                    "Yes," said Gubbins, "and in the meantime we are
                        bloody well starving."
                    "Ain't there no ship's biscuit?"
                    "Not a bit that's fit to eat. It's all crumbled
                        away; 'sides that it's full of damned insects that may be
                        pison. I don't want to die now, with all that money in
                        sight."
                    They went on deck, and Kitchen went over to where Corr was tossing
                        restlessly. He took some water and bathed his face and forced a little
                        through his lips. Gubbins came out of the cabin with a bottle in his hand.
                        "If we ain't got no stuff to eat, we can drink,"
                        he said. It was, brandy, mellow with age. Some of it was given to Corr, and
                        he revived a little. Kitchen  took two
                        draughts from the bottle and it began to make him drunk. He was
                        half-starved. Gubbins was nearly drunk already. He began to sing a song, and
                        Kitchen joined him in chorus. While they sang the dying man tossed about on
                        the deck. They kept the orgies up until they fell asleep of exhaustion on
                        the deck. Kitchen awoke first in the morning. Corr was dead.
                    He told Gubbins of Corr's death as soon as he awoke.
                    "Good thing," remarked Gubbins. "If he'd
                        ha' lived I suppose he'd ha' felt entitled to a
                        share."
                    "Share!" said Kitchen. "A bloody sight of good
                        your shares are going to do anybody! Here we are, worth a million or more,
                        and we can't even buy something to eat. I tell you what.
                        I'd give my share right now for a quart of
                        'arf-and-'arf and a bit o' bread and cheese. How
                        in the hell are we a-going to get out of here?"
                    "Easy enough, now you're here," responded Gubbins.
                        "There's a good whale boat forrid  that we can get out. We'll follow one of these creeks
                        till we come to the Hooghly, then we'll do the shipwrecked sailor
                        act and get back to civilization. Come down in the cabin."
                    For a week the men lived near the ship; they worked hard, getting out the
                        whale boat and caulking it, and they finally got it to the water's
                        edge. Then they put in the better part of a sack of gold and one or two
                        turtles that they caught. They had determined to start with only this.
                        Gubbins said: "Afore we go let's have another look at our
                        fortune." They went back and down into the hold. Sacks were open
                        and gold and silver coins lay around in profusion. Kitchen stooped and put
                        some in his pocket.
                    "Damn it all," said Gubbins, "share even man. Give
                        us a chance," then he filled his pockets.
                    Then Gubbins said: "I vote we take all the boat'll hold.
                        Anything might happen to prevent our coming back, and if we have some of the
                        money it won't be so bad."
                    
                    Kitchen was of the same mind, and the did two hours' more work
                        carrying gold and silver to the boat. They put nearly three sacks on board,
                        and the boat lay dangerously low.
                    "Never mind," said Kitchen, "we can pitch it
                        overboard if it's dangerous. There's plenty
                        more."
                    "Yes," said Gubbins. "If we an only find our way
                        back to it."
                    Then they started. They went down the creek, which gradually got broader and
                        broader. There was a slight current, and the boat was so deep in the water
                        that she drifted gently along. The men lay back and feasted their eyes on
                        the gold. Thus four days passed, and at the end of that time they left the
                        creek and found themselves in a river, which proved to be the Jellinghi, an
                        offshoot of the Ganges. There were no villages on its banks and no craft on
                        its waters, and so the men pulled out into the stream and went down with the
                        tide. As night fell they were near the mouth of the river, and it began to
                        blow. The wind was off land, and the  boat
                        seemed in danger of going out to sea. The "whole broad ocean lay
                        before the men.
                    "Bend to your oar, man!" yelled Gubbins. "Get her
                        back! Ge her back!"
                    Both men were exhausted and could not put strength into their rowing. The
                        waves began to come up, and the boat was so low that she shipped a good deal
                        of water. Gubbins pulled the stroke oar. He saw the water coming on board,
                        but gave it no heed. He only pulled the harder.
                    " We'd better throw over one of these sacks,"
                        suggested Kitchen. "We'll swamp the boat."
                    " Pull, damn you, and don't talk so much!" said
                        Gubbins.
                    Just then his oar snapped and a tiny wave washed over the gunwale. The
                        gunwale was but a few inches above the water.
                    "I guess we'll have to let half of one of those sacks
                        go," said Gubbins. He cut a large hold in the bottom of the sack
                        and raked out about half of the silver.
                    " Help me over with this," he said then. It was heavy,
                        although half of the silver had been  taken
                        out. It was a task for the two weak men to raise it to the height of the
                        gunwale. They got it there at last and gave it a final hoist.
                    " Good-bye, fortune," said Gubbins.
                    Splash! the sack struck the water. It did not sink at once, heavy as it was.
                        It seemed as if it would pull the boat under. The rent in the sack had
                        become entangled in Gubbins. He was leaning far over the boat, trying to
                        free himself. Kitchen leaned out on the other gunwale.
                    "Come and help me, damn you!" shrieked Gubbins.
                    "If I come over there the boat'll capsize," said
                        Kitchen. He made a motion as if to go, and the boat rocked and the sack of
                        silver sank beneath the waters. Gubbins was still with it, struggling to get
                        free.
                    Kitchen was alone in the boat. He had but one oar. He tried to scull the
                        boat, but she was too heavy and the wind blew too strong. He cut the other
                        sack of coin open and threw it overboard by handfuls. The boat, thus light-
                        ened, rode better, and Kitchen being able to 
                        keep her head to the sea, she floated safely all night. Next morning he was
                        out of sight of land; the wind had died down, and the sea was calm. The sun
                        beat down fiercely upon his bare head. He had lost his cap during the night.
                        He was clad in an old pair of seaman's trousers and a blue dungaree
                        shirt. His convict garb had been left on the treasure ship. He had no water
                        on the boat, and he nearly died of thirst. On the second day out his head
                        hurt him so that he kept it wet with salt water. He was so thirsty that his
                        tongue became black and swollen. He noticed a gold moidore lying at the
                        botton of the boat. He picked it up and tried to bite it. It hurt his mouth
                        and he flung it overboard. Then he became delirious, and he fell back on the
                        stern-sheets. The boat went on drifting, drifting on a sea of molten
                        glass.
                    Some hours later a P. & O. steamer, outward bound, sighted the boat
                        and picked it up. The lone occupant was, at first, thought to be dead, and
                        sailors were ordered into the boat to heave the corpse over the side. It was
                        not until a  brawny lascar had seized hold of
                        poor Kitchen, preparatory to letting him slide over the gunwale, that signs
                        of life were noticed. Amidst the greatest excitement among the passengers
                        the unconcious man was lifted on board. He was given in charge of the
                        vessel's doctor, and was taken to a comfortable cabin in the second
                        saloon. The body and the clothes of the unconscious man were carefully
                        examined for marks that might lead to a discovery of his identity. None were
                        found. In the pockets of his trousers the doctor's assistant found
                        gold moidores to the value of $600.
                    In spite of the most careful attention Kitchen remained unconscious until
                        about midnight, when the doctor's assistant, being alone in the
                        cabin watching by his bedside, Kitchen stirred uneasily and opened his
                        eyes.
                    The doctor's assistant urged him not to talk, but to take some food.
                        He forced broth between the sick man's lips, and it seemed as if
                        Kitchen partly regained his strength. Then in spite of the prohibition of
                        his attendant he began to talk, rapidly, excitedly, earnestly. After  the first few words the assistant bent over
                        him, listening eagerly. Kitchen seized his arm and kept on talking. He
                        seemed to fear the assistant would leave before he had time to finish. For
                        fully twenty minutes he talked and then fell back exhausted. The assistant
                        tried to rally him in vain, He ran out for the dotor.
                    " For God's sake, come in here," he cried to the
                        doctor. "This man has recovered sufficiently to tell his story, and
                        he says that he knows of--"
                    By this time they had reached the cabin in which Kitchen lay. It would seem
                        that he had heard the excited words of the assistant, for he rose up in bed
                        and said: "Millions--that's what I knows of! Millions of
                        gold and silver. Damn me if I don't!"
                    "What does this mean?" asked the doctor.
                    Then the assistant told him. He re-told the remarkable story that Kitchen had
                        poured into his ears. When he came to the finding of the ship, the doctor
                        rose and closed the door as if he feared that outsiders might hear. Towards
                        the end of his assistant's hurried story he took  hold of Kitchen's wrist and laid his
                        finger on the pulse.
                    "That will do," he said, stopping his assistant, then to
                        the sick man: "Now then, my friend, it is my duty to tell you that
                        you have only a very short time to live. If you have affairs to set in order
                        I must advise you to begin at once."
                    " I ain't got no bloody affairs,'' said
                        Kitchen.
                    ""Is it true that you have told my assistant about a
                        treasure ship?"
                    "O' course it's true, an' I can tell
                        you--"
                    "Can you tell us where to find this ship?"
                    "Yes. You go up the Jellinghi river.--You'll find the place
                        where Gubbins was drowned.-A sack of bloomin' gold 'e took
                        with him-tried to eat it, I did, when I got hungry.-Gold-you can't
                        eat that stuff.-Corr is a-watching of it.-- I've been rowing so
                        damned hard I'm sleepy--lemme go to sleep."
                    He fell back on the pillows. Until morning broke he raved in his delirium of
                        many strange and awful things. As daylight came he opened  his eyes and said : "
                        Divide-swag--even-- Gubbins." Then he died.
                    The secret of the Sunderbunds remains a secret still.
                
                
                
                    WITH THE SUN OVERHEAD
                    
                        
                            
                                What hid'st thou in thy treasure-caves and
                                    cells?
                                Thou hollow-sounding and mysterious main!--
                                Pale glistening perals and rainbow-colored
                                    shells,
                                Bright things which gleam unrecked of and in
                                    vain!--
                                Keep, keep thy riches, melancholy sea!
                                We ask not such from thee.
                            
                            
                                Yet more, the depths have more!--what wealth
                                    untold,
                                Far down, and shining through their stillness,
                                    lies!
                                Thou hast the starry gems, the burning gold,
                                Won from ten thousand royal argosies!--
                                Sweep o'er thy spoils, thou wild and
                                    wrathful main!
                                Earth claims not these
                                    again.
                            
                        
                        
                            Felicia Hemans.
                        
                    
                    THE main reason I have not before said anything about the
                        remarkable story bequeathed to me by William Benson is the incredulity with
                        which I felt sure it would be received. Not that I cared for myself at all,
                        because those who read his story and disbelieve it, must perforce admit that
                        even if my poor friend  was a romancer he was
                        entertaining. At the hospital there were nurses and native servants who
                        hinted that poor Benson was not sane, and if his actions thus impressed
                        those who knew him, I have feared that, judge by his story, this disgraceful
                        lie might cling to his memory. While I am sure no one can be found that will
                        have a fuller faith in the truth of his narrative than I have, there may be
                        some one who, knowing more about the strange things that happen at sea, and
                        knowing better how to set about a matter of this kind, may reap more
                        substantial benefit from Benson's legacy than I am ever like to do.
                        It is for this reason that I break silence after so long a period and make
                        public a story which has been a secret with me since William
                        Benson's death.
                    In the year 1883 I was in Calcutta, second mate of a ship in the coolie
                        emigration trade. It was the hot season and the river unhealthy. I was young
                        and of stong physique and bore the heat well. One by one my comrades were
                        taken ill, were sent to the hospital, recovered and returned to duty. A last
                        my turn came. I  was looking after the storing
                        of the ship's provisions and was working in the dark, noisome hold
                        when a dizziness seized me and I fell over on the sacks of rice. The coolie
                        stevedores lifted me, carried me to the upper deck and in less than ten
                        minutes I was in the ship's gharry being bowled
                        along to the Seaman's Hospital as fast as the horse could run. I
                        had a touch of the cholera, and for weeks I was between life and death. When
                        I was convalescent I learned that my ship had sailed. I found that as soon
                        as I was well enough I should have to look out for a new ship to carry me
                        home.
                    It was the bad season of the year, as I just said and the huge hospital,
                        erected and maintained by the merchant seamen that visit Calcutta, was
                        crowded. So it happened that when I became convalescent I was take from the
                        crowded cholera ward and placed in a special ward containing only two beds.
                        I occupied one, William Benson the other.
                    I can not describe William Benson, even if I wished. When I first saw him he
                        was only the shadow of man, almost worn out in his  hard battle with death. He was so weak, indeed, as to be
                        scarcely able to move in his bed, but at the first glance I could note the
                        large frame of the man, and I knew that he had been strong and powerful
                        before disease had overtaken him. The nurse for our little ward told me that
                        Benson had been in the hospital eight months, and in that time he had never
                        once been out of bed.
                    The case of William Benson had puzzled the physicians. The board at the foot
                        of his bed was labeled "Dysentery," but the nurse admitted
                        to me that it was some other disease which was taking Benson to his grave.
                        "It is a most mysterious case," said the nurse, when I
                        asked her about it. " He eats less than four ounces of food a week,
                        and he is steadily but very gradually losing weight and strength. According
                        to the predictions of the doctors he should have died seven weeks
                        ago."
                    When doctors and nurse had gone, and we were left alone, I spoke to Benson.
                        He seemed to take kindly to me, and he signed to me to take his hand. He was
                        too weak to raise it  himself. Thus we became
                        friends. I used to read to him during the day, and at his special I procured
                        the "Count of Monte Cristo" from the library and read it
                        aloud to him. At times he was petulant and cross, at times sulky and sullen,
                        but I tried to cheer him up as best I could. A hundred times a day he
                        expressed his gratitude to me, and one night, when we had been particularly
                        confidential, he said: "Never mind--I'll pay you for all
                        this."
                    We had come to the end of "Monte Cristo." I was feeling
                        strong and nearly well again, and was thinking of leaving the hospital, when
                        the end came for William Benson. In the middle of the night I was roused
                        from a deep sleep by hearing my name. It was Benson that had called. I went
                        to his bedside. "I have been calling you for some
                        minutes," he said.
                    I asked what I could do for him.
                    "This-time-to-morrow night-I-shall- be dead," he said,
                        speaking with difficulty. "I am-holding-back-my strength. I-will
                        -have-no-friends-you-you-."
                    
                    His voice died away. His lips moved, but he could not speak. His eyes, always
                        eloquent, now sparkled with unusual brilliancy. Gazing at them I saw him
                        look expressively at his hand. It held a roll of paper.
                    "Do you want me to take that?" I asked.
                    His eyes answered me yes.
                    With a great effort he said: " Read-read- it--read--I
                        have--clew--read--now."
                    I wanted to call the nurse, but this seemed to distress him; so I sat down on
                        the edge of my bed and by the dim light of the hospital candle I read the
                        manuscript of William Benson. This was written:
                    Until very recently I knew nothing of the sea. Born and brought up in
                        Lincolnshire I was apprenticed to an iron founder and learned that trade. I
                        should probably have continued at it had it not been for the death of a
                        distant relative of my mother, who bequeathed me a legacy of £800 a
                        year. I had never liked the iron business and this legacy released me from
                        it. My education had been neglected, and  I
                        determined to make up for my lack of book knowledge by learning something of
                        the world by travel. At that time the Zulu war was just nearing an end and
                        the eyes of Englishmen were upon South Africa. I determined to visit the
                        Cape, and as time was no object with me I chose a sailing vessel. I sailed
                        from Penarth, in the barque Larissa, 1,400 tons burden. I was the only
                        passenger and had a cabin next to that of the captain. It was my first
                        experiene of the ocean, and so not unnaturally I was sea-sick for a few
                        days. I soon got over it and began to enjoy the voyage. Three weeks after
                        leaving the channel we got a glimpse of Ascension island, and five weeks or
                        so after that we dropped anchor for a few hours at St. Helena. Then we bore
                        away for the Cape of Good Hope. Four days out from St. Helena we struck our
                        first really rough weather. It came on to blow in the night. The wind was
                        from the nor'west and it came with a clear sky and a steadily
                        rising sea. At first it was but half a gale, but as the day wore on the gale
                        increased, until at night the seas were running like living moun-tains, and the angry wind rushing past the
                        struggling ship played gigantic monotones among the taut-drawn rigging. All
                        night the wind increased until by morning the ship was running before it
                        under bare poles. Not a square sail was set, only between the masts the
                        merest rag of staysail was shown to keep the ship steady before it. For five
                        days this gale continued, but the Larissa being a staunch vessel, commanded
                        by a good sailor, and having a willing crew, made fair weather of it all.
                        For all these five days the decks were never free from the pounding waves
                        that lifted above the taffrail and spilled tons of hissing water over the
                        ship. On the sixth day, when every one was about tired out, the clearness of
                        the sky gave way to a gloomy darkness. To the terror of the gale was added
                        the horror of a sudden squall. From the northern horizon rose dark,
                        evil-looking clouds, which raced across the angry heavens, and, blown into
                        fantastic shapes, seemed like devils in pursuit of our hapless ship. You
                        could see the anger of the squall rushing across the water. The fearful
                        force of the oncoming wind seemed  to beat
                        down the waves in its path, blowing them into an impalpable spray which was
                        driven in great sheets-the advance guards of disaster. The ship was naked to
                        the wind. There were no sails to take in. Nothing could be done but to
                        wait.
                    Suddenly the force of the hurricane struck the Larissa amidships, and the
                        vessel, by the sheer weight of the wind, was forced over, over, almost on
                        her beam ends. The angle of the decks was such that standing was impossible.
                        The men crouched down beneath the bulwarks waiting, waiting for the ship to
                        right herself, and all the time she rushed forward, through, not over, the
                        water.
                    Afraid to stay below through this peril I was crouched on the poop beside one
                        of the large hen-coops, to which, for greater safety, I had lashed myself.
                        Just aft of me the captain had lashed himself to the mizzen shrouds. From
                        where I lay I could see his face plainly, and could read there signs of the
                        danger we were in. How long this lasted I do not know. Darkness fell, and
                        still I lay along the poop deck lashed  to the
                        hen-coop. Some hours after dark the wind changed, veering around with a
                        suddenness that shook the Larissa through and through. She righted on the
                        instant. The wind was blowing as hard as it had blown all day, but the
                        change in its direction was beating the waves into submission. They still
                        rose extraordinarily high, and as the Larissa, her helm being down, began to
                        turn herself around, the heavy waves came pounding over the deck, carrying
                        away deck houses, boats, the cook's galley, and ev- erything
                        movable. The captain saw the danger, and clambered up the mizzen shrouds,
                        out of the way of the water. I saw him, beaten by the wind, flat against the
                        ratlines and I heard him shouting to me to follow him. I did the best I
                        could. I tried to loosen the ropes by which I had fastened myself, but the
                        ropes were new, the wetting had swollen them, and I tugged and toiled in
                        vain. Suddenly a huge green wave rose before me, engulfed me, car- ried me
                        away. Clinging to the hen-coop I was dashed over the poop railing, and as I
                        came to  the surface I saw the helpless bark
                        speeding away from me before the hurricane.
                    Of my sufferings while in the water I shall not speak. I realized from the
                        first that no one on the Larissa would have power to aid me. But for the
                        hen-coop my death had been certain. As it was, I was so lashed to this that
                        I lay easy, even comfortable, half in, half out of the water, finding the
                        churning motion of the angry waves not unpleasant. My head was well out of
                        the water, and although the spray made breathing difficult, I was in small
                        danger of be-ing drowned.
                    For three days and three nights I tossed about the ocean on my frail raft.
                        Inside the coop were nine chickens. They were drowned, of course, soon after
                        the coop went overboard, but they were meat and drink to me through three
                        awful days. I looked in vain for passing ships, and although the gale died
                        down, I feared that I was doomed to die. I had no idea in what part of the
                        ocean I was. The water was warm, the climate hot, so I imagined that I had
                        been driven northward.
                    
                    When the fourth morning broke, and I could see no ships, I began to despair.
                        My legs were paining me. They were swollen from the water and I was becoming
                        so weak that I scarce cared to raise my head to keep out of the way of the
                        dashing waves. I took out my last chicken, but, famished as I was, I could
                        not eat it, so tainted had it become from the warm water.
                    As day advanced I noticed that numbers of birds flew about my head, and, in
                        an effort to catch some of these, I made shift to clamber on top of the
                        hen-coop. Being thus raised some three feet above my former position, I
                        looked around the horizon and to my intense surprise saw, not five miles
                        away, a low-lying island, fringed with palms, the ivory whiteness of its
                        coral sand beach sparkling in the sun.
                    Thus was I rescued. Partly drifting, partly paddling, I got ashore. I found
                        the island uninhabited. It was about four miles long by a mile and a half
                        wide, with a hill, probably one hundred feet high, in the center. Here and
                        there about it were clumps of cocoanut, date and  cabbage palms. On all sides the island had a clear, firm beach
                        of sand shelving gradually to the water's edge. It was a beautiful
                        spot, but, standing alone on the beach, looking at the clear sky and the
                        boundless horizon, the loneliness of it all struck me with dread and
                        horror.
                    The record of life on islands inhabited by some poor castaway has been
                        written many times, and there is a sameness about it all which tells me that
                        my experiences for the first few days on this little spot of land in the
                        midst of the vast expanse of waters would not prove interesting. There was
                        green stuff enough to sustain life, and there were fish to be caught from
                        the beach, so that for material things I did well enough.
                    The apparent lack of fresh water troubled me for a day, until I regained
                        strength enough to explore the island. After some hours' search, my
                        heart sinking at every step for fear that my quest should be fruitless, I
                        came upon a curious well or pool. It was at the foot of the central hill. A
                        perfectly round hole about sixteen feet in diameter fringed with grass and
                        reen bushes It was night when I found it, and I drank and  was content. In the morning I examined it
                        more closely. When the sun shone overhead the water showed as clear as
                        crystal. The sides of the well seemed to be ot hard sand, perfectly smooth.
                        Fresh-water fish swam about in the pool, and when I stirred the water they
                        rushed to one side of the well and seemed to disappear. For a time it
                        puzzled me to think where they had gone.
                    I was curious to see how deep this strange well was, and having a fairly
                        good-sized bunch of twine in my pocket I attached a stone to one end and let
                        it down its full length, some 300 feet, but failed to touch bottom.
                    Having no possible occupation on the island, and finding the sea, which had
                        been so cruel to me, monotonous, I spent much time lying beside my well
                        watching the fresh-water fish appear and disappear. As I watched I wondered
                        more and more where it could be they went. At last, looking more closely, I
                        fancied I could see, about ten feet below the surface of the water, a large
                        round hole in the side of the well. I cut down a long slim palm tree and
                        with it verified  my fancy. There was a hole.
                        It looked like a tunnel.
                    For two days after making this discovery I attached no importance to it. On
                        the night of the second day, as I lay on my bed of sand, looking at the
                        stars, I began to wonder if the tunnel in the well might not mean something.
                        I am half ashamed to say what strange fancies I conjured up, but they ended
                        in my determining to investigate the tunnel on the morrow.
                    Next morning, bright and early, having break-fasted off raw shell-fish and
                        ripe dates, I stripped and prepared for a dive into the pool. It was a
                        perilous thing to do, but conditioned as I was, with hope of rescue almost
                        gone, I did not value my life highly. It was not much of a plunge. I reached
                        the lower edge of the strange tunnel under water in an instant. I noted that
                        it was round and appeared to be built of masonry. Then I rose to the
                        surface. That first dive convinced me that the well and tunnel were none of
                        nature's handiwork, and trembling with excitement at what I was
                        about to do, I took a deep breath and dived again. This time I did not  linger at the mouth of the tunnel, but,
                        passing within, pushed on as far as I dared. Till then I had kept my eyes
                        closed. When I stopped I opened them. Looking behind me, I could plainly
                        make out the opening of the tunnel into the well; it made a circular patch
                        of light in the water. Looking upwards I was sur- prised to see another, but
                        fainter circular patch of light directly overhead. I had been under water
                        then about twenty seconds. Without waiting for consideration I forced myself
                        upward through the circular patch and found my head above water.
                    I was in the center of a well the exact counterpart of the one into which I
                        had dived the minute before, but the mouth of this one was enveloped in
                        semi-darkness. I had been so used for days to the fierce light of the sun
                        beating on the coral sand that it took some time for my eyes to become
                        accustomed to the half, or rather quarter, light in which I found myself. It
                        was wonderfully cool where I was, and as I lay on the ground beside the dark
                        mouth of the well I made out that I was in a sort of cave with a  mighty roof sloping to the center. The shape
                        of the roof seemed familiar to me, and as I lay, thinking the problem out,
                        it occurred to me that the central hill of the island was hollow and that I
                        had, in a mysterious way, gained the interior of it.
                    At first my thoughts were only that I had found a house ready made to my
                        hand, a house to which I could return with little exertion. I got up and
                        began to move about warily, trying to find whether there were not some
                        direct opening from the cave to the outside world. I was impelled to this
                        all the more because the air in the cave was sweet and pure, and I fancied
                        that I could detect an in-rush of wind from some source.
                    I had taken only a few steps from the well when I stumbled and fell over an
                        obstruction. As I tumbled to the ground my hand grasped something hard, and
                        taking this to the edge of the well, where it was most light, I saw it was
                        the skeleton hand of aman. It was a body I had fallen over. The discovery
                        gave me a shock, but soon recovering I dragged the skeleton to the edge of
                        the well and tried to make  out what manner of
                        a man it had been. The clothes were so rotten that they would scarce bear
                        handling, but as I felt about a piece of cloth came away in my hand. It
                        proved to be a pocket, and from it fell five or six large gold pieces.
                        Astonishing as it may seem my delight at the sight of the gold quite
                        overcame my repugnance at the companionship of the skeleton and I quickly
                        shook out the clothes to see what other treasure I might find. In other
                        pockets I found more gold pieces and a golden crucifix, but what really
                        pleased me most was the discovery of a silver tinder-box, tinder, flint and
                        steel, all complete.
                    It took me less than five minutes, unaccustomed though I was to the use of
                        flint and steel, to strike a light. For want of better fuel I set fire to
                        the rags that had fallen from the skeleton, and by the flame thus made I saw
                        at one side of the cave, piled up in apparent confusion, bales and boxes,
                        chests and packages, some barrels and an old ship's boat. Examining
                        the boat first, for here lay hope of deliverance, I found it rotten and
                        beyond repair; so  breaking off some of the
                        planks I soon had a fire that sent a glorious glare about the cave. I worked
                        all the morning like a man gone mad. I tore open bales to find them packed
                        with rich silks, all moldy and decayed. Beating open the lid of a huge chest
                        with a stone I found it filled to the cover with large pieces of money, the
                        like of which I had never seen. They were gold, about four times as big as
                        an English sovereign and had inscriptions on each side which I was unable to
                        decipher. In another chest I found cutlasses and old flintlock pistols, and,
                        best of all, I found some broad-axes, with one of which I made sad havoc
                        among the packages. I cut and hacked with demoniac eagerness at the boxes
                        and the chests. At almost every blow I came upon more treasure. Time and
                        again I dulled my ax upon gold coins or bars of silver as I cut into some
                        fresh chest. There were two large chests filled with precious stones. One
                        tray of diamonds alone I recall that must have been worth the ransom of a
                        king. There were huge rubies, and bright emeralds, sapphires by the handful,
                        and hundreds of manificent  pearls, their
                        luster dimmed by the yellow of age. I sat down and tried to make a
                        circulation of the immense wealth that was stored in this cave. To be safe
                        in my estimate I valued the precious stones, including diamonds, rubies,
                        emeralds and other stones, at £5 a piece. I know some of the
                        diamonds were worth £100. Even at £5 each I figured that
                        there could not be less than two million pounds sterling in precious stones
                        alone; while a little calculation soon convinced me that there must be an
                        equal amount of value in the gold and silver ingots and the two chests of
                        coin I had found. How long I stayed in the cave I do not know. I must have
                        gone half mad with joy at my treasure-trove, and I never once thought, so
                        busy was I in counting my wealth, of how useless it would be if I were
                        doomed not to be rescued.
                    Finally hunger forced me from my day-dreams to the reality of life, and
                        reluctantly I dived into the well, forced my way through the tunnel, and
                        shot upwards to daylight with all my strength.
                    This came near resulting in my complete undoing, for, as I rose to the
                        surface swiftly, my  head struck with great
                        violence against the small palm tree which I had brought to the well to use
                        as a sounding-rod and which I had carelessly left overhanging the well. The
                        blow was so severe that a deep gash was cut in my forehead, and as I hauled
                        myself out of the pool the blood ran into my eyes, blinding me. I staggered
                        to the seashore and bathed my forehead in salt water, but the only result
                        was an intolera-ble headache.
                    I lay down on the bed I had made in the sand and tried to rest. It was
                        impossible. What with the pain of my wound and the blood that continued to
                        flow from it, together with the mad fancies that the treasure I had spent
                        the day with conjured up before me, I tossed restlessly about. I did not
                        deem my wound serious. I was angered at it because it seemed as if it might
                        hinder me from visiting the cave in the morning. I began to think out plans
                        of removing the treasure to where it would benefit me. My head hurt
                        intolerably. At one time I imagined that I was again tossing on a hen-coop
                        on the ocean. I thought that maybe I had  only
                        dreamed about the treasure, and I got up, weak as I was, and walked back to
                        the well where I had dropped a couple of gold pieces that I had brought to
                        the surface with me. The sight of the gold reassured me. I started to walk
                        back to the shore. I reeled, tried to steady myself, the world turned black
                        before me, and I fell asleep.
                    When I woke I looked around me at a long line of beds in a hospital ward. I
                        was in bed, and a nurse, clad in white, was standing close to me. I tried to
                        talk, but they refused to let me speak. A doctor came to my bedside and
                        said: "You must not talk. You have been very ill." I
                        insisted on knowing where I was. They told me I was in the hospital for
                        seamen, at Boston, in New England.
                    I lay ill for six weeks after that. I had been there already a month. When I
                        was convalescent they told me that I had been brought to Boston by Captain
                        Dingley of the schooner Betsy Jane. They told me that Captain Dingley,
                        voyaging from Port Natal to Boston, had dis-
                        covered an island, uncharted. Being in need of fresh water he had sent a
                        boat ashore, the crew of which had found me, unconscious and raving, beside
                        the only fresh-water pool on the island. They had carried me on board, where
                        I had been near death, but they had managed to convey me to Boston and send
                        me to the hospital.
                    When I was quite well I made cautious inquiries after Captain Dingley, and
                        found that he had sailed on a trading voyage among the Andaman islands and
                        would not be back for two years. I tried to find out whether he had reported
                        the latitude and longitude of the island, but I could not do it easily, and
                        I was afraid to make too many inquiries for fear of raising suspicions.
                    While I was wondering what would be best for me to do, I heard that Captain
                        Dingley had given up his trading voyage and had sailed for Calcutta. I
                        determined to follow him, and if necessary to take him into my secret. When
                        I got to Calcutta I found that he had been here when I was taken ill. I feel
                        that this illness, on  top of the hard usage I
                        have undergone, will end fatally. My day-dreams have come to naught. The
                        treasure is not for me.
                    Thus ended the narrative of William Benson. I had read it hastily, in much
                        excitement. From time to time I had glanced at the sick man, who had
                        returned my glance eagerly and had nodded his head slightly, as if to
                        reassure me if I had any doubts of the truth of his narrative.
                    " Have--you-fnished?" he asked in a weak voice, as he saw
                        me lay the last page down.
                    I told him I had. Then remembering his statement about a clew, which, of
                        course, could refer to nothing but the location of the island on which the
                        treasure was to be found, I went to his side and said:
                    "Do you say you have a clew to where this island is
                        situated?"
                    A bright look came into his eyes. There was a cunning smile on his lips.
                    "Yes," he said, painfully. "I-re-member.
                        You--can--find--it. When--it--was- 
                        eleven-o'clock-on-the-island--the sun- was
                        directly-overhead."
                    I think he tried to laugh as he finished saying this, but instead his face
                        was twisted and distorted with such an expression of pain that I ran for the
                        nurse and had the doctor summoned. When we got to his bedside again he was
                        dead.
                
                
                
                    GUNGA HASSIM
                    
                        
                            
                                "'As the twig is bent the
                                    tree's inclined,'
                                Is an adage often recalled to mind,
                                Referring to juvenile bias;
                                And never so well is the verity seen
                                As when to the weak, warped side we lean
                                When life's tempests and hurricanes try
                                    us.
                            
                        
                        
                            Hood.
                        
                    
                    HE knows not anything--the white man. My son, it is the
                        gold. The power of the cursed English lies in the gold. What matters the
                        rest, my son? Shekels! Shekels of gold and silver! Gather them to you and
                        all except wisdom you can buy!"
                    That thereafter was the creed of Gunga Hassim, son of Hassim Mahamoud, babu of the Rhudda bazaar, Calcutta. The father was a man
                        of means who had spent many years consorting with Feringhee merchants and
                        who had  learned to cheat and lie and sell
                        damaged tea as only a converted Mussulman can. He had a small shop in the
                        Rhudda bazaar and he sold vile cigars to sailor folk and opium in profitable
                        quantities to the Lascars.
                    He had married a Madras dancing girl, and Gunga Hassim was the sole fruit of
                        the union. The mother had died long ago, and Gunga Hassim had lived with the
                        priests of his mother for many years. Even his father did not know all that
                        the son had learned, for "the greater part of wisom is to appear
                        unwise," said Gunga, and he knew that his father was rated a thief.
                        He knew, too, that he was himself a thief, and he felt the curse of his
                        ancestry in his veins. It had not cropped out yet, and Gunga intended to
                        keep his feelings controlled until they could be let out with profit.
                    Gunga Hassim was fifteen years old before he went to live with his father.
                        Then he could see no use in sitting in the little shop with his legs crossed
                        all day, waiting for a half drunk sailor to come along upon whom some of the
                        dried-grass cigars could be passed off. Even as a slip  of a boy he had felt in his blood the longing to do something
                        better--something that should place him above the common herd of petty
                        thieves by whom he was surrounded. His father insisted on his staying in the
                        shop except at those times when he took him down the Hooghly river in his
                        dinghy and caught a towline from an incoming vessel. Then father and son
                        would go aboard and sell the hungry crew unripe fruit and musty cocoanuts,
                        which, to the sailors' salt-horse tastes, would seem as good as the
                        best. The father used to do a little money-changing in the fore part of
                        these vessels, bartering away the Indian silver for the English gold. and
                        making never less than ten per cent. The son was not allowed to take part in
                        these delicate transactions at first, as the father was afraid of him and
                        thought he might be clumsy. Clumsy! He could have robbed his father of his
                        eyes, he was so apt a scholar. As it was, he used to have a longing eye on
                        the bag of gold that the old man handed down into the boat at the end of
                        these trips, and he used to make mental calculations as to whether it was
                             large enough for him to make his grand
                            coup upon. For he was determined that he would not
                        degenerate into an ordinary bazaar coolie. He intended to be a big babu, a trader on his own account. His day-dreams were of
                        the ships which he should have the contract to provision, and which he would
                        load up with rotten biscuit and horrible tea. These ambitions could not be
                        gratified without capital, and Gunga had only one idea as to the acquisition
                        of capital. Some men had the brains and the patience to make capital; he,
                        Gunga, had the will to steal it when it was made. Not a scruple stood in his
                        way. He would just as soon rob his father as any one else, but the father
                        was a good thief himself, and Gunga was a little afraid to test his power
                        against him.
                    One day they made a trip down the river and met a Glasgow ship coming around
                        the bend behind the Black Fort. The ship hove to while the fort boat was
                        taking off the powder and other inflammable stuff with which no ship is
                        allowed to enter the harbor of Calcutta. The old man had somehow got to
                        distrust the boy,  and he had a vague fear
                        that the son was smarter than himself At any rate he kept his bag of silver
                        hidden in his belt, not letting it lie on the seat of the boat as was his
                        wont. He saw by the size of the crew on the Glasgow ship that she was likely
                        to prove profitable, and so he got a tow-line on his boat and went aboard,
                        ordering Gunga to stay in the boat and steer her. Ganga stayed. He read his
                        father like a book, and he knew that the old man was afraid of him. He
                        determined that the time for his coup had come.
                    All day long the ship plowed her way up the muddy river; past the King of
                        Oude's palace, up into Garden Reach, and came safely to anchor
                        before the fort. Then the shore folk began to be numerous about the ship,
                        whereupon the old man appeared on the poop, and, hauling up the boat,
                        dropped into it and told Gunga to pull ashore. There was a sparkle in the
                        old man's eye which told Gunga that he had been unusually
                        successful. He helped his father up the bank of the river, and when they
                        reached the top told him to sit down on the jute chute  while he went to get a gharry. The old man
                        sat down, and Gunga went away taking the bag of gold with him.
                    Hassim Mahamoud waited and waited for his son. A full hour was gone, and then
                        he thought that he would pass the time in counting his gains. He reached for
                        the bag and it was gone. He knew at once who had taken it, and so he just
                        got up, half smiled, and walked back to the bazaar, a distance of four
                        miles. He went to his shop and sat down and thought it all out, and even as
                        he knew himself a loser he congratulated himself on having such a worthy
                        son. He was too tired and disgusted to open his shop, and so he pulled out
                        his little mat and hard pillow and went to sleep.
                    About midnight he heard some one at the shop front. He lay still. He could
                        see an outline against the sky. It was Gunga. The boy came in, threw down
                        the bag of gold on his father's mat, and lay down beside him to go
                        to sleep. The father hesitated a moment, as if he would speak to the boy,
                        but contented himself  with gathering the
                        money-sack closer to himself. Then he turned and slept.
                    "Why didst thou not stay away, my son?" asked the father in
                        the morning.
                    "For what?" replied the son. "A paltry 90 rupees?
                        I am thy son, old man; I was never taught to be a bazaar
                        thief."
                    " Had the sum been more it would not have been right for thee to rob
                        thy father. I gave thee thy life; it was I that taught thee the business.
                        Thou wilt have plenty and honor when my time is done."
                    "I would not rob thee, old man," replied Gunga,
                        "but that thou never givest me a chance at the Ferhingee. Thou dost
                        not trust me. If the wolf share not her prey with the cub, there are like to
                        be two hunters in that family."
                    The old man took the hint, and that afternoon he and the boy went on board a
                        big Dutch barque which had just come in. As they crossed the ship's
                        side they separated, the old man merely giving one brief sign toward a young
                        man who stood by the main hatchway.
                    Gunga was too wise not to take the hint. He 
                        crossed the ship's deck, and in a moment he stood beside the man
                        his father had pointed out. The young European talked in pigeon-English;
                        Gunga interlarded his English with Hindoostanee. In a few moments the native
                        had the young man interested. He wanted to buy an Indiana shawl. Gunga had
                        the most marvelous shawls at the bazaar shop that any one had ever heard of.
                        Would Gunga trade a fine Indian shawl for a gold watch made by Bennett, of
                        London, and sold for thirty guineas? Of course he would. "I will
                        see your watch," said Gunga. It was shown shown with fear and
                        trembling by the young man. He was afraid it might not be good enough for
                        the trade. It was a watch given him by his father. He wanted a fine Indian
                        shawl to take home to his sweetheart. Gunga approved of the watch with
                        glistening eyes. Surely this bauble was worth hundreds of rupees.
                        "It is a trade," he announced. It was arranged that he was
                        to bring the shawl in the morning. Nay! he would bring a dozen of the
                        choicest shawls to be found in all India, and he would let the young man
                        take his pick. Then  seeing the old father was
                        ready to go, he protested to the young man that he would be on board early
                        in the morning; and as he saw a lingering doubt on the face of the young
                        man, he added: "I and my father, we live in the Chowringhee road,
                        near the museum."
                    "All right," said the white man, who watched his property
                        go over the side without a quiver. That was his first real chance at the
                        white men, and his father said that he had made good use of it. Of course he
                        never went near the ship again. He even stayed away from that part of the
                        Hooghly river for a week, and he stored the name of the vessel in his mind,
                        so that if ever she returned to port he would keep clear of her. The watch
                        was sold in a fortnight to an American captain, who saw it was good.
                    After that episode, father and son got along well together. On their way out
                        in the morning they would confer as to the operations that were to take
                        place. Once the farther made a mistake in his dates and got mixed up in his
                        story to a shrewd Vermont sea captain, and the son came and rescued the old
                        man with a few  choice lies and the adroit
                        mixture of English and Hindoostanee. After that the son took the lead,
                        rather, and once the father remarked, with a tearful voice, that the boy was
                        getting too much for him. Gunga was growing old too. That is to say, he was
                        twenty-five, which means a fairly old age for a river man. Of course, there
                        are many that live on to fifty, or even fifty-five, but they are mummies,
                        and don't even wash in the river every morning.
                    Then there was a row somewhere. Old man Hassim Mahamoud thought the son was
                        trying to get his capital, and the son, if he was not trying to get it, at
                        least found himself often thinking that if he had the old man's
                        money he could set up a little place of his own. The father was becoming
                        somewhat of an annoyance to the young man. Gunga missed his father one night
                        and found him, finally, at the Kamalia ghat, which is the place where all
                        good babus go to smoke opium and exchange experiences.
                        Unfortunately, Hassim Mahamoud's head was not the same as it had
                        been a few years before, and instead of learning his neighbors'
                        secrets he  was babbling his own. They had a
                        little row after that, and Gunga left Calcutta the next morning riding
                        second-class on the Great Northern Railway.
                    For a year the doings of Gunga reached the old man in fragments. He was heard
                        of as robbing a wealthy Lodhi merchant in Ludhiana, and it was known that he
                        had fled to Sehwan, where a relative of his mother was supposed to reside.
                        Here was found the tomb of Lal Shahbaz, called Kalandar, and about the time
                        that Gunga started away the priests that guard the shrine reported to the
                        English police that some white man had stolen some jewels from the presiding
                        deity. This reached Hassim Hahamoud's ears, and he chuckled to
                        himself, for he knew that his son was very clever if he could make the
                        priests think it was a Christian that did the deed. The jewels found the way
                        to the Rhudda bazaar by the hands of a betel-nut trader, who walked most of
                        the way
                    Before the year had passed Gunga was heard of in Latipur, a suburb of Multan.
                        Here Gunga was arrested and thrown into the native  jail. A Bharwana mail carrier had been found with his throat
                        cut, and some of the letters were on the person of Gunga. He said not a word
                        when confronted with his guilt and he refused to plead when taken before a
                        native commissioner. The commissioner, who was a sneak native, grown high in
                        the confidence of the British by keeping the authorities informed of the
                        movements of the tribes, thought that it added to his dignity to have a
                        murderer in charge, and so he ordered the prisoner to be kept in the little
                        mud-plastered hut, which served as a jail. He put two men to guard the
                        prisoner, intended to send him to Multan in the morning. When dawn broke one
                        of the guards was found with his head broken, and the prisoner had escaped.
                        Gunga would have gone back to Calcutta, anyway, as the safest place to hide,
                        but in some mysterious way he got a message from his father, telling him
                        that big game was in sight, and begging him to come at once. Gunga dressed
                        up semi-officially, and took a first-class on the express. He had made money
                        in his wanderings. His  father had a gharry to meet him, and took him at once to the little
                        shop in the Rhudda bazaar.
                    That evening, over the hubble-bubbles Hassim Mahamoud unfolded his scheme.
                        The old man was not quite a fool yet. He ad a sea captain on the string. He
                        said:
                    "His name is Leonard. He is a long-time sailor, but never before has
                        he been to Hindoostan. He has read in those books of theirs about our magic,
                        and he believes that the spirits of the dead come back to him. He has plenty
                        of money on his own. I hear, my son, that he is to take a package of money
                        to Cape Town. It will be thousands of rupees. I have shown him the ink pool
                        in his hand, and he will do as I say. We will get the money, you and
                        I."
                    Then and there the plot was arranged. The old man had hypnotized the sea
                        captain, and could control him when he wished. He found out that a large sum
                        of money was to be entrusted to him, and his plan was to go into the
                        captain's cabin, hypnotize him and get the money, and then have
                        Gunga, with a boat under the stern-sheets of the ship, to get whatever  heavy plunder they might want from the cabin.
                        There were the chronometers and the instruments-they were worth many rupees.
                        It was to be a big robbery for the last. The old man agreed that he and
                        Gunga would go up then to Jhajjar, where Hassim Mahamoud had a cousin, one
                        Abdul Bahadur, with whom the could make their home.
                    Late on the evening of the next day the boat started on what was intended to
                        be its last trip. The son pulled the boat across the river, and there father
                        and son waited for darkness. The moon sank away about 11 o'clock,
                        and the boat moved over to the ship. It was the Star of Perth, a Scotch
                        vessel. A rope trailed in the water from her counter. The old man seized it
                        and went hand over hand, like a monkey, to the deck. The son waited under
                        the shadow of the stern. In the forward part of the vessel some sailors, who
                        could not sleep for the intense and sultry heat, were singing. As the old
                        man reached the deck and hesitated before climbing over the rail, the son
                        could hear the deep bary-tone of a boatswain singing:
                    
                    
                        "Oh! The Rio Grande is a fairy land,
                        Hurrah for the Rio Grande!"
                    
                    As the song ended in a chorus from the other sailors, the old man crept over
                        the rail and disappeared from view. The son listened eagerly. His mind was
                        so full of a scheme he had formed that evening that he was apprehensive of
                        some disaster. He thought his father might be caught. He listened painfully
                        to the uninterrupted singing in the forepart of the vessel. Looking up he
                        saw the shadow of his father against the white blind of the little cabin
                        window. Then he noticed that another rope hung over the stern. Could he get
                        up there without noise?
                    He grasped the rope and pulled it tight. It held and did not strain. He
                        mounted it slowly, and getting opposite the window peered in. The captain, a
                        young man, sat at one side of the little table, the old Hindoo at the other.
                        The captain's hand rested on the table, palm up-ward, and the old
                        man was pouring some dark fluid into it. He was looking intently in the
                        white man's eyes. Presently he stopped pour-ing, and then he took the hand and turned it over. The ink
                        spilled out on the carpet and the hand remained limp, inert. The old man got
                        up and walked to a little locker in the side of the cabin. It was fastened.
                        He took a bunch of keys from the pocket of the unconscious captain, and
                        opened the little cupboard. He drew forth two bags. They were filled with
                        English pieces--gold. The old man gloated over them. He poured some out on
                        the table. Overhead the noise made by the walking watch-man could be heard.
                        The father gloated over the gold. The son watched him through the window.
                        One of the sovereigns dropped on the floor. It rolled under the table in the
                        shadow cast by the lamp. The old man got down on his hands and knees to hunt
                        for it. In an instant Gunga had slipped through the window and had raised a
                        sandbag in the air. He was about to strike. He stayed his hand and touched
                        his father on the leg. A knife nearly went through his hand for his trouble.
                        Hassim Mahamoud was frightened. He thought that  the man in the chair who was under the spell had come to life. Then he
                        saw his son.
                    "Why waste time over one? There are many there," said
                        Gunga, and he pointed to the table.
                    "How came you here?" demanded Hassim.
                    Gunga pointed to the window. The father comprehended. They both understood
                        each other. The unconscious man was robbed of his watch. A ring that fitted
                        his finger tightly was taken off. The money was wrapped in a turban. The son
                        took some of the things into the boat. The rest were handed in by the
                        father.
                    "Get the time machine on the wall," said Gunga.
                    The father returned for it. The son drew his knife but hesitated as he was
                        about to cut the painter that held the boat. Then he put back his knife. He
                        wanted that time-piece himself. And then if his father was left behind he
                        could swim ashore and would probably find and kill him, or at least denounce
                        him to the Multan city police.
                    
                    "Hither laeo-old grayhead," he said,
                        "hurry, hurry."
                    "As fast as possible, my son," replied the old man.
                        "A long wait makes a sure gain."
                    He handed the chronometer to his son and clambered down the rope. He cast
                        off, and the boat drifted out into the blackness. The waters of the Hooghly
                        run fast at midnight, especially midnight at the beginning of August. As
                        they drifted away the father murmured, "I fear the Chalio, my son."
                    "It may be coming," said Gunga.
                    Down the river drifted the boat. The plunder could not be safely landed in
                        the town. Down past the barracks with the solitary light streaming over the
                        water from the guard house; past the signal tower with its noon-day black
                        ball showing clear against a rift in the clouds; down past the botanical
                        gardens with the stately cocoanut palms rearing their heads in the air; past
                        the wharves of the P. & O. boats with their man-of-war-like hulls,
                        as dark and silent as the grave; down past Garden Reach, with its coolie
                        quarters, and the ship waiting for a con-signment to Demerara, and then-the boat rocked to and fro, there was a
                        muttered, half-choked "Allah," and the
                        boat went on drifting.
                    Around the bend, the towers of the palace of the King of Oude came into view
                        against the black sky and the boat's head turned towards the shore.
                        Up a little estuary, and so into the bank, and then Gunga Hassim got out and
                        began to remove the plunder. He was alone in the boat and the hot Chaliho was brewing down the river.
                
                
                
                    THE THIRD MATE OF THE JUMNA
                    
                        
                            
                                "Drink to Fortune, drink to Chance,
                                While we keep a little breath!
                                Drink to heavy Ignorance!
                                Hob-and-nob with brother Death!"
                            
                        
                        
                            Tennyson.
                        
                    
                    AFTER Rugford had passed his examination for second mate
                        before the admiralty board in Calcutta, he should, by rights, have thrown up
                        his berth on the Jumna and have waited in Calcutta until he could find a
                        ship that needed a new-fledged second mate. We all hoped he would wait. We
                        had not been tied up onboard the Jumna for four years with Rugford without
                        finding out the material of which he was made. His genius for petty meanness
                        was pretty well known to every white man on board the Jumna, and even among
                        the lascar crew he was not  highly honored. He
                        was the son of a tailor of Portsmouth, who had acquired a competency in
                        outfitting army subalterns and brand new midshipmen, with their honors still
                        heavy upon them. The father, a respectable enough man in his way, having
                        risen from nothing, possessed the laudable ambition of making his son a
                        gentleman, as if any amount of money made in selling brass tinsel for gold
                        lace could accomplish that! He sent Rugford, Jr., to college, and urged him
                        to acquire the graces that would enable a tailor's son to pass
                        muster for a gentleman, It is probable that Rugford, Jr., would have gone
                        from college to the university had he not, at the end of his college career,
                        expressed a preference for the sea. He was too old then to try for the navy,
                        and so Rugford, Sr., who had business relations with the firm of Patmore,
                        Bingham & Co., of the coolie emigration trade, got the boy
                        apprenticed to the Jumna, gave him a more liberal allowance of money than
                        any other apprentice on the ship enjoyed, and urged him to work his way to
                        the top of the service as rapidly as possible.
                    
                    It is well known that a good sailor must be able to turn his hand to
                        anything, tailoring included, but I doubt very much whether a tailor has
                        ever been worked over into a successful seaman. It was a hard struggle for
                        Rugford from the first, and he only got through it successfully because at
                        the last he had money at his command to hire professional crammers, who
                        pumped him full of ready-made seamanship, which he was able to hold just
                        long enough to spill all over his examination papers. Two weeks after the
                        examination was over he could not have passed again to save his life.
                    It was not only in his lack of education that Rugford suffered--the men he
                        was associated with did not know any too much about the science of
                        navigation-but it was his infernal disposition that handicapped him. He had
                        not been on board two days before he affected to despise Dick Collingwood,
                        the best fellow in our cabin, because he said that Collingwood's
                        father had not money enough to pay his son's outfitting bills. This
                        may have been true, but we did not care to know it. Most of us knew  that Collingwood's father had been a
                        distinguished officer in the army, and had received the Victoria cross for
                        bravery during the Sepoy mutiny. There was no use telling Rugford that; he
                        would only have reminded you that his father kept medals to sell.
                    That was in the beginning of Rugford's service. His tailor blood and
                        caddish breeding cropped out on every possible occasion after and was
                        obliged to consort with the ship's carpenter, a Swede, and to find
                        friends among the lascar crew. When the Jumna got to port, whether in South
                        Africa, India or the West Indies, Rugford went ashore alone. He was never
                        invited to take part in the land jollifications of our mess, and as for the
                        mates, they restricted their intercourse with him to giving him the
                        necessary orders about the ship.
                    Rugford stood this kind of life for four years. This meant three voyages of
                        fifteen months each. The Jumna sailed from London to Cape Town with a
                        general cargo; from there she went to Calcutta in ballast, took coolies from
                        Calcutta  to Demerara, and from the West
                        Indies took a cargo of sugar, rum and molasses home. On three voyages over
                        this route Rugford stayed with the Jumna as an apprentice. He knew that he
                        was regarded by all white men who had dealings with him as an ass, but he
                        had not sense enough to mend his ways and try to act like a man. A
                        tailor's son he came on board the Jumna, and he behaved like a
                        petty tradesman to the end.
                    That was Rugford. I may have given up a little too much space to him, but as
                        this story is about what befell him, it was necessary to show what a mean,
                        snobby little beggar he was. What is bred in the bone, etc. I don't
                        mean to say that he could help it; as he was, he was, and we had to put up
                        with him for four long years.
                    It was in the year 18--, and the Jumna lay in the Hooghly river waiting for a
                        consignment of coolies for British Guiana. We had been in Calcutta about
                        five weeks when Rugford's four years' apprenticeship
                        expired, and he announced his intention of going before the examining  board and trying for his second
                        mate's certificate. With undisguised feelings of relief we saw him
                        go, and on the evening of the day he passed, we had a dinner at Sansar
                        Lal's, in the Rhudda bazaar. It was a good dinner, in
                        Rugford's honor--but Rugford was not there to enjoy it.
                    We thought we were rid of him. The place where his sea chest had been
                        strapped to the deck was vacant, his bunk curtains were down, and his
                        bedding had been dumped into the Hooghly river. He should, as I said at the
                        start, have waited in Calcutta for another ship and trouble came upon him,
                        trouble not of our making, and which, for the honor of the ship, we would
                        gladly have avoided, much as we disliked the man.
                    After Rugford got his certificate he stayed away from the ship for a week,
                        then one day he sent down engraved invitations to all the white men of the
                        Jumna to join him at dinner in the  Lord Clive
                        Hotel in the Chowringhee road. We were well rid of Rugford and wanted no
                        more of him; therefore we declined these invitations and went, instead, to a
                        smoking concert in the zoological gardens, hard by the Allapore jail. After
                        that we heard no more from Rugford until we were ready to sail. It was the
                        end of September when the Jumna dropped down to the depots and began loading
                        coolies. The Scotch surgeon and his native compounder came on board and we
                        were all ready to go to sea. With coolies on board it is customary to
                        appoint one of the apprentices as acting third mate, and we looked to see
                        Collingwood apointed to the office. The appointment was not made, and at the
                        last moment we saw why. Down the Hooghly river came a dinghy, and in it sat
                        Rugford, wearing a brand-new uniform and with a brand-new sea chest beside
                        him. He had signed articles to serve as third mate until the Jumna got back
                        to England.
                    That evening we were bowling down the Hooghly river behind a steam tug, and
                        the next morning we struck the Indian ocean, and started  on our long voyage to British Guiana. As we
                        had suspected, Rugford made a fool of himself from the start. Clothed with
                        the shadow of authority, he tried to exceed it, bullying the lascars until
                        he earned their contempt and hatred and the title of "Shaitan ka Rugford," or, "That devil
                        Rugford." We heard him referred to thus several times, but as he
                        was a white man we had to pretend not to hear it. Only the surgeon, seeing
                        how things stood, took the man aside one evening and told him where his
                        conduct would lead him, warning him that if he persisted he would find
                        himself over the side some night, and would never know whose was the hand
                        that gave him the push. 
                    That voyage we had about six hundred coolies, of whom about two hundred and
                        fifty were women. Some of them were old hags who were only conveyed because
                        they had stalwart sons; others were young girls with bewitching forms and
                        great big eyes that could talk more eloquently than their lips. After a few
                        days of rough weather in the beginning we had a glori-ous voyage, winds blowing fair, and the old Jumna, as steady as
                        a rock, bowling over the seas in a way to do a sailor's heart good.
                        In fine weather the coolies spent most of their time on the deck, and
                        because the crew was composed of lascars (those hybrid seamen, the scum of a
                        dozen oriental races) the women were not allowed to go forward where the
                        crew were, but had to remain aft on the poop. This was where the mates
                        lived, and Rugford was in his glory airing his bad Hindoostanee on the
                        pretty coolie girls and flirting meanly with one after another.
                    The prettiest girl on board the ship was Sona Nissa Bhera. She was about
                        sixteen years old, and was the wife of Ahmad Bhera, of Hujrat. He was a
                        stalwart young fellow about twenty-five years old, and he was very proud of
                        his "golden wife," as he called her-Sona, her first name,
                        signifying golden. The girl was not only pretty, she was accomplished. She
                        had been in the service of an English lady in Madras, and had learned to
                        speak a little English. She had not forgotten her native accomplishments,
                             and evenings when the musicians gathered
                        in a circle beating their tom-toms for a dance, Sona Nissa was the most
                        graceful dancer of them all. In the native plays, too, that they acted on
                        the quarter-deck, she was always chosen for the best parts. The lascars and
                        the coolie men would gather around, and when opportunity served would
                        applaud her with many grunts, to the extreme delight of her satisfied
                        husband.
                    Now, constancy and marital love being rare among the coolies, we, the white
                        men of the Jumna, were glad to admire this couple for their devotion to each
                        other, and we rather pitied them the hard life that was before them on the
                        sugar plantations of British Guiana. With Rugford it was different. To see
                        this child the object of the ship's admiration was to make the
                        petty, mean soul of the tailor's son envious, and he wanted her for
                        his own. It was his duty to go down into the women's compartment
                        and get up the necessary stores of rice, dal, sugar, and
                        so forth, for the day. On these occasions the women would gather around,
                        and, seeing the apparently boundless store, would beg for a  handful of sugar or a biscuit or two,
                        "Just yegtoe beeskit, Sahib," they would
                        say, holding out their little hands, so that it was hard to resist them. But
                        because there is such a thing as jealousy, and because one coolie can not be
                        safely treated any better than his fellows, the orders were to give no one
                        provisions outside of their regular allowance. Rugford, put upon his honor
                        to enforce these orders, violated them. It was easier for him to give away
                        the government's stores than anything of his own, so, if the beggar
                        was a pretty coolie girl, she was pretty sure to be successful. One of the
                        women that came to the hatch was Sona Nissa, and she was not refused.
                        Rugford gave her double-handfuls of sugar, filled her sarie with ship's biscuit, and even filched candied Bahl fruit from the medical stores for her. This he did in
                        a sneaking, underhand manner, and warned his coolie helpers not to mention
                        it to anyone. Sona was a good girl. She took the gifts of Rugford, and
                        divided them with her husband, who was pleased, and bowed low when he met
                        Rugford on the deck, and called down the blessings of the faithful on  his head. He used to wash Rugford's
                        shirts for him, and clean his shoes, and do other offices that other men
                        paid coolie servants for doing.
                    No one will ever know what the friendship between Rugford and the coolie girl
                        led to. It was not a month before she was the slave of the man, and he had
                        only to look at her when she would get up and come to him. About the end of
                        the month Ahmad began to suspect that Rugford's friendship boded
                        ill to him, and he asked Rugford Sahib not to give his wife any more
                        presents. Then Rugford complained that Ahmad's quarters were not
                        properly cleaned, and he ordered him to stay in the forward part of the
                        ship. Ahmad did not know that Rugford exceeded his power in this, and so he
                        submitted without complaint. Then Rugford tormented Sona worse than ever,
                        and gave her brass bracelets and other ornaments, and made her husband very
                        jealous indeed. When the child would go to speak to her husband, Rugford
                        would order him forward, or else he would call her to him with a smile, and
                        leave the hus-band standing there consuming
                        himself with rage.
                    All this was bad for the credit of the ship, and the surgeon, who found it
                        out, again warned Rugford of the error of his ways, and told him that if the
                        affair were not stopped he would have Rugford reduced from his office. This
                        quieted him down for about a week; then the same thing continued, but it was
                        worse than before, because Rugford was more cunning and sly about it.
                    All this time Rugford had no special hate against Ahmad; he had done what he
                        had because his soul was small and his mind was bent on the little, nasty
                        things of the earth. After St. Helena, things were different. It was in
                        November that the Jumna made St. Helena and stopped for fresh provisions and
                        water. Anchor was dropped in the open roadstead, and peddlers of all kinds
                        came on board. Some of us fellows wanted to take a swim over the side, and
                        we asked a fisherman of St. Helena whether there were many sharks about. He
                        said that one or two would be seen occasionally, but he  thought there would be no danger in taking a swim. So
                        overboard we went. Rugford wanted to come, too, but he was inclined to be
                        afraid of the sharks, and he cried over the side: "I'll
                        see if you fellows turn up any sharks. If there are none, then I'll
                        take a dip."
                    We had a swim for a few minutes, and came on board again, whereupon Rugford
                        put on a pair of bathing tights and went over the side. As he swam around
                        the vessel he kept looking over his shoulder for fear of sharks. The
                        surgeon, a jolly Scotchman, who had noticed this, went to his cabin and
                        brought out a rat-trap--a steel one, with jagged jaws that would snap
                        together when a plate in the center was touched. He called Ahmad, the
                        coolie, to him and explained the working of the trap to him, and told him
                        how he could get even with Rugford by giving him a good fright. Ahmad, like
                        all Hindoos, could swim and dive like a fish. Fortified by our approval and
                        laughter, he slipped over the side opposite to that where Rugford was
                        disporting himself. He took the trap with him. He swam close to Rugford
                        without being  observed, for that swimmer was
                        doing graceful things in the water for the edification of the coolie girls;
                        then he dived, and, coming close to the swimmer, he seized his foot and
                        fastened the sharp trap to the calf of the leg. Instantly Rugford gave a
                        fearful yell that was half-drowned as he swallowed a mouthful of water; then
                        he threwup his hands and went under. He imagined that a shark had him, and
                        he was ready to give up at once. When Ahmad saw him sink he dived and
                        brought him to the surface and helped him struggling to the ship's
                        side. The steel-trap was loosened and allowed to sink. When Rugford came on
                        board he was convinced that a shark had bitten him, and he showed the bloody
                        bruise on his leg in confirmation of his story. He was inclined to brag a
                        little about his adventure, until the old Scotch surgeon told him what had
                        really happened, and it did not take Rugford long to find out who had played
                        the trick on him. He was the more furious because Sona laughed at him, and
                        said that she had thought Englishmen were not cowards.
                    After that, until we arrived in Demerara, on 
                        December 2, Rugford used every mean artifice of which he was capable to get
                        even with Ahmad, and he made the poor coolie's life miserable.
                        Ahmad swore revenge for Rugford's repeated insults, and we were
                        half afraid that some morning Rugford would not be on hand to serve out the
                        coolie stores. He continued his conduct with Sona until the last, and it was
                        not until the coolies were put ashore at Demerara that we began to feel that
                        the danger of a tragedy had passed.
                    At Demerara vessels are obliged to anchor midstream in the George river. The
                        Jumna was anchored about a quarter of a mile below the coolie depots, and
                        from the ship's deck we could see the gangs of coolies leaving the
                        depot for the station, or the plantations to which they were assigned. About
                        two weeks after our arrival a number of us went to the coolie depot one
                        Sunday to see such of the coolies as were still there, and to find out how
                        they were getting along. Among the first we asked for was Sona, for although
                        Rugford had monopolized her on board ship, and her partiality for him  was the only bad trait we noticed in her, we
                        all felt an interest in her, both on account of her extraordinary beauty,
                        and because of the unusual (for a coolie) qualities she possessed. We
                        learned that she had been indentured to an English lady, living at
                        Georgetown, a few miles from Demerara, and that she was engaged as nurse to
                        some English children. Ahmad was still at the depot, as he had expressed a
                        wish not to be indentured to a plantation too far away from his wife. It is
                        needless to say that Rugford did not accompany us on our expedition, and
                        when Ahmad saw that his enemy was not with us he talked to us freely. We
                        learned that Rugford had already been at the depot a number of times, but
                        that since Sona had been indentured he had not been there. Ahmad seemed so
                        miserable when talking about Rugford's treatment of Sona, that
                        Collingwood took it upon himself to talk to Rugford when we got back to the
                        ship, and he, knowing the chief quality of Rugford to be cowardice, warned
                        him that if he went too near Ahmad, ashore, he would probably know what it
                        felt like to have a knife be-  tween his ribs.
                        Rugford did not take the warning kindly, growled out that he was able to
                        take care of himself, and afterwards commented to the second mate on the
                        "damned impertinence of those apprentices."
                    The end of this story came on Christmas Day. Knowing that we could not get
                        ready for sea before Christmas, our skipper called us aft and told us that
                        he intended to celebrate the day on board the ship, and invited us to take
                        dinner with him in the after cabin. On Christmas eve he called the third
                        mate aft, and giving him a sum of money, instructed him to be up at 4
                        o'clock next morning, to take the long boat with a crew of lascars
                        and go to the market and purchase the provisions.
                    Rugford went. When he got ashore he took four lascars, leaving two in charge
                        of the boat, and went to market. He bought game, beef, mutton and
                        vegetables. These he sent back to the boat by two sailors. Then he bought
                        bananas, breadfruit, guavas, and other fruits, and sent the other two
                        lascars to the boat with his  purchases. By
                        this time it was 6 o'clock, and he ought to have started back to
                        the ship, but on his way down to the wharf he met the Swede ship's
                        carpenter, who had been on a spree for two or three days, and who invited
                        him to drink a bottle of port wine. He drank not one bottle but many, and as
                        a consequence he forgot his errand and forgot all about the provisions in
                        the long boat at the wharf. The lascars did not worry over the absence of
                        their officer. Finding that Rugford did not appear, they strolled off to
                        near-by saloons. They were found drunk about 10 o'clock by
                        Collingwood, who had been sent after them. Rugford could not be found. It
                        appeared that he had sat drinking with the Swede until he was nearly
                        stupefied, and he was then wandering aimlessly about the town.
                    Now Demerara, with its polyglot population, is a bad town for a sober white
                        man to wander in, let alone one who is more than half drunk. Rugford
                        strolled into a Spanish eating-house, ate some red soup, the like of which
                        he had never seen before, went to sleep and woke up  in an alley minus his money. The only idea that had a firm
                        hold on his mind when he awoke was that he wanted another drink, but he had
                        not the money to pay for it.
                    Anyone who has been to Demerara will remember "Spanish
                        Lize," who has a little red brick house down what is known as
                        "Nigger Lane." Big, buxom Lize allows no ship to enter the
                        port of Demerara without boarding it and contracting to do the washing of
                        the white men on board. The place she kept was ostensibly a
                        sailor's boarding-house, but the boarding periods were short and
                        the house had an evil reputation among the police. "Lize"
                        was also known as a money-lender to sailors, and her influence with sea
                        captains was so great that she always got what was owing to her before the
                        ship sailed. The house was not one which white men should have visited, but
                        as it was nasty, Rugford had gravitated there, naturally. Finding himself
                        without money, with a scrape impending, as he dimly realized, though he
                        could not remember what it was, he made his way to the house of
                        "Spanish Lize." He  reeled
                        down Nigger Lane and got to her house, from which sounds of fighting and
                        wrangling could be heard. As he started to go up the three front steps, a
                        demijohn, thrown from an upper window, missed his head by the fraction of an
                        inch. He pushed the door open and went in. His interview with the landlady
                        was satisfactory, for he left the house with £5 in his pocket, and
                        he left behind him a promise to pay ten before the ship left port. He also
                        carried a bundle under his left arm. The truth was that Lize was glad to see
                        any one from the Jumna at the time that Rugford came in, because the Swede
                        carpenter, who was an old friend of hers, had made her promise to send him
                        down to the ship two roast ducks for his Christmas dinner These she had
                        prepared, and wrapping them up in napkins she intrusted them to Rugford upon
                        his statement, "M-goin' right on board, 'pon word
                        homor." Hugging these ducks to his breast, and fortified by a
                        bottle of wine drunk in honor of his money transaction with
                        "Lize," Rugford staggered on his way to the ship.
                    At least he thought he was on his way, be-cause, somehow, the Demerara streets are so crooked that it is hard to
                        find out where you are when once you have lost your bearings. At the first
                        street corner Rugford met the boatswain of the Jumna, and being a mean soul,
                        he consented to have a bottle of wine even with this man, who was a Malay.
                        They went into a low dive frequented by Hindoos, negroes and Spaniards, and
                        Rugford sat there drinking himself silly until night had fallen. While he
                        drank he left his precious parcel of ducks in the care of the Spanish
                        bar-keeper. When it grew dark the boatswain was for moving toward the ship,
                        and Rugford said that he would go, too. The boatswain knew the way, and they
                        started out together. They had gone some little distance when Rugford
                        suddenly remembered the ducks he had left behind.
                    "Cooch pewanie Sahib," said the
                        boatswain.
                    "Never mind--but I do mind," said Rugford, with the
                        insistency of a drunken man. "You wait here, and I'll go
                        back and get them."
                    He went back, and got them, but when, hav-ing
                        the bundle safely under his arm, he started out again, he took the wrong
                        turning, and got down into the negro quarter. The boatswain waited for half
                        an hour, and then went back to find him. He learned that he had been there
                        and gone, and so the boatswain returned to the ship.
                    Still hugging his beastly ducks, Rugford wandered about the negro quarter,
                        where the streets are little more than alleys, and where it was so dark that
                        he could hardly see his way. As he turned a sharp corner of one of the dark
                        streets into another equally as dark, he bumped into a man.
                    "Get out my way," growled Rugford.
                    "Hah, Rugford Sahib," cried the voice of a coolie.
                    "Hulloa, coolie," drowsily muttered Rug- ford.
                            "Toom be yegtoe soor ka-butcher. Get out my
                        way."
                    Now to call faithful, though ignorant follower of Mahomet, a "son of
                        a pig," which is unclean, is about as deep an insult as you can
                        offer him. Remembering his past wrongs and 
                        his present one, looking around over his shoulder to see that the dark
                        street was clear of people, the coolie drew a sharp knife from his waist
                        cloth and proceeded to carve Rugford scientifically. The first touch of the
                        steel brought forth a curdling yell from the victim, but the next thrust
                        silenced him. When the insult had been washed out in blood the murderer fled
                        swiftly into the darkness.
                    In the meanwhile dinner was in progress in the after cabin of the Jumna. The
                        old skipper was in his jolliest mood, and when some one remarked on the
                        absence of the third mate, he laughed and said: "Here's
                        luck to him, wherever he is. I suppose he stopped ashore on a spree.
                        It's queer he could not come on board and take his Christmas liquor
                        like a gentleman."
                    We drank healths all around, drank to a successful voyage home, and we parted
                        at midnight to go to our bunks. While we were undressing, the big Demerara
                        police boat came alongside, and the captain of the river police came on
                        board and asked if any man was missing out  of
                        the ship. We all said " Rugford " at once, and the captain
                        of the river boat said: "An officer, I suppose,
                        gentlemen?" To which we answered by a nod. Then he told us how the
                        night patrol had found the body in a dark alley in the negro quoarter. It
                        was known to be the body of one of the Jumna's men by the name of
                        the ship worked in gold lace on the cap.
                    The body was literally cut to pieces. We had to go to the morgue next morning
                        to identify it, and we had to go before the coroner and give evidence which
                        amounted to nothing. The police had ferreted out his visit to the house of
                        "Spanish Lize," and had learned of his drinking in the low
                        liquor dive, and they theorized that some one of the men from that dive had
                        followed him and murdered him for his money. There was no one to contradict
                        this theory, and I believe it stands to-day.
                    As for Rugford, being an Englishman and a messmate, we saw him decently
                        buried, and a clergyman of the Church of England read the services over the
                        grave.
                    Before the Jumna left Demerara we learned  that
                        Ahmad Bhera, of Hujrat, had secured a place as laborer with the same family
                        which employed his wife, and it is said that Sona and her husband live very
                        happily now.
                
                
                
                    THE LITTLE SISTERS OF THE DESOLATE
                    
                        
                            
                                "Come not, when I am dead,
                                To drop thy foolish tears upon my grave,
                                To trample round my fallen head,
                                And vex the unhappy dust though wouldst not save.
                                There let the wind sweep and the plover cry;
                                But thou, go by."
                            
                        
                        
                            Tennyson.
                        
                    
                    THE chapel bells were ringing for vespers on Christmas Eve.
                        The clang sounded full of cheer to hundreds of people on the outside,
                        thinking happily of to-morrow. It sounded harsh, discordant and merciless in
                        the white-washed corridors of the hospital of the Little Sisters of the
                        Desolate. A long row of clean, white cots. One unfortunate tenant. At the
                        head of the only occupied bed there was a board bearing the following:
                    
                    
                        
                            Name..................Arthur Martyn.
                            Age ..................28.
                            Brought in.............December 23rd.
                            Kin or friends.........Miss Violet Hayes, Gaunt House, Belgravia
                                Square.
                        
                    
                    Then followed directions as to nursing, medi- cine, diet, etc.
                    A nurse busied herself arranging things. She smoothed the coverlet, made the
                        pillow more comfortable, and pulled up a screen so as to subdue the
                        light.
                    " I wish I had some flowers for his bedside, as it's
                        Christmas Eve," she said.
                    Another nurse came in to relieve her. "How is he?" she
                        asked.
                    "Still unconscious," was the reply.
                    The chapel bell ceased; there was silence for a moment, then the corridors
                        took up the hum and roar of the busy London streets again.
                    "Who is he?" asked the new nurse.
                    "He's a gentleman, I believe," said the first one.
                        His clothes were poor, he had not a penny, and he seemed to be half starved,
                        but there's  something about him that
                        makes me sure he's a gentleman. He was knocked down by a cab in
                        Maida Vale last night. The only clue was a letter in his pocket. It was
                        written to him by a Miss Violet Hayes. It showed that she had been his
                        sweetheart, and that they had quarreled. We found her address and notified
                        her, and put an account of the accident, with his description, in the
                        papers. We haven't heard anything, though."
                    An hour from this time the patient opened his eyes. He looked around at the
                        whitewashed walls, his eyes lingered a moment on the little brass crucifix
                        at the foot of his bed, on the nun-like dress of his nurse. He realized
                        where he was.
                    The nure saw him staring. "Shall we notify your friends?"
                        she asked.
                    " I have none, thank you," he replied.
                    The voice was so sad, the tone so hopeless, that a tear trembled in the eye
                        of the nurse.
                    "We notified Miss Hayes," she said, simply.
                    "How did you know--a letter in my pocket?"
                    The nurse nodded. The patient's eyes looked  wisful. He gazed towards the door. The slight movement hurt
                        him and he groaned.
                    In a few minutes the doctor came in. He examined the patient carefully, then
                        he beckoned the nurse. "He's going," he said
                        laconically. "Keep him quiet; it's all you can
                        do."
                    An hour later the patient said to the nurse: "Do you think
                        she'll come?"
                    " I'm sure she will," said the nurse. She knew
                        nothing about it; she said it to cheer him. There was a ring at the hospital
                        bell.
                    "Thank God!" ejaculated the patient.
                    A woman came in. She was of the streets. She had been pretty, but the beauty
                        of her face had been wiped out by her sin. "May I see
                        'im?" she asked.
                    She stepped to the bedside. "It's 'im,"
                        she said.
                    The patient had closed his eyes, as if the joy of the expected meeting had
                        been too much for him. Her voice aroused him.
                    "You!" he cried. His voice was full of poignant
                        disappointment.
                    She fell on her knees by the bedside, weep-ing.
                        "Jack! Jack dear!" she cried. " Ter find
                        y' 'ere like this! I 'eard of 'ow it
                        'appened from the pipers. I knowed 't wuz you
                        w'en I 'eard the bloomin' description-even if
                        they 'ad got 'old of a wrong naime. I knowed that
                        description was Jack 'Oward, and not Harthur Martyn. 'Ow
                        ever did it 'appen, dear?"
                    She caught a pale hand lying outside the coverlet and kissed it. "I
                        ain't got much 'oof, Jack, only a couple o' bob,
                        yer know; business 'as bin so bloomin' bad. Shall I get
                        yer a bottle o' port wine, Jack, eh dear? or sumthin' fer
                        yer stummick, dear? Lor', wot a bloody swipe yer've got on
                        yer 'ead, Jack!"
                    The patient stirred uneasily. "For God's sake, be quiet,
                        Maggie," he said.
                    The nurse beckoned the woman away.
                    " May I kiss 'im?" she asked.
                    The nurse looked at the patient inquiringly.
                    "Thank you, Margaret," he said.
                    As she kissed him and bent over him, his eyes took in the coarseness and
                        squalor of her garments, the tawdry finery of her hat, the sham earrings,
                        the untidy throat. He pressed his  lips to her
                        forehead, the more attractive part of her face. "A merry Christmas
                        to you, Margaret," he said. She burst out weeping.
                    There was a ring at the bell again. "Stand back, please stand
                        back," cried the sick man.
                    The nurse and the weeping woman retired to the far end of the corridor. A
                        servant came in bearing a basket. It contained jellies and flowers. On top
                        of all was a note. The envelope was marked with a crest. It was directed to
                        "Arthur Martyn, Esq."
                    Ignoring the basket, or perhaps not seeing it, the patient seized the note.
                        He was too weak to open it. The nurse did it for him. The enclosure was
                        brief : 
                            
                                
                                    "Dear Mr. Martyn:
                                    "Have just heard of your accident. We hope it is
                                        nothing serious. I have sent you some little delicacies, at
                                        mamma's suggestion. We thought you had left London.
                                        Shall I notify your brother? I will try and come to see you
                                        after Christmas Day. Hoping you will recover rapidly,
                                    
                                        I am, very sincerely,
                                        "Violet
                                                Hayes.
                                    
                                    P.S.--I am sorry you were indiscreet enough to keep any
                                        of my letters in your pocket. It was hardly pleasant  for me to have such notoriety
                                        in connection with a man knocked down in the streets. V. H."
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    "Hell!" cried the patient.
                    The nurse was arranging some of the flowers on a table at the bedside. The
                        patient swept them off with his hand. The tumbler fell to the floor with a
                        crash.
                    Then he fell back on his pillow.
                    The woman called Margaret started forward, but the nurse held her back. The
                        nurse stooped over the bed. She rose, silently, and crossed herself. Then
                        she beckoned to the other nurse and the two of them enclosed the bed with
                        the screen.
                    "'As 'e gone, nuss?" asked the woman,
                        through her tears.
                    The silence of the nurses was eloquent.
                    "That bloody letter finished 'im, so it did,"
                        sobbed the woman. "She may be a laidy, but she did n't
                        think nuthink o' 'im. Damn 'er! I 'ope
                        she 's 'appy this Crissmuss Eve. 'E wuz the only
                        friend I 'ad."
                    The bell of the Little Sisters of the Desolate began to toll.
                
                
                
                    AN OCEAN CHRISTMAS
                    
                        
                            
                                "The time draws near the birth of
                                    Christ:
                                The moon is hid; the night is still;
                                The Christmas bells from hill to hill
                                Answer each other in the mist.
                            
                            
                            
                                "Each voice four changes on the wind,
                                That now dilate, and now decrease,
                                Peace and goodwill, goodwill and peace,
                                Peace and goodwill to all mankind."
                            
                        
                        
                            Tennyson.
                        
                    
                    THE good ship Rohilla had no business to be carrying
                        passengers in the first place. We had no accommodation for them, no extra
                        table delicacies for them, no servants to wait on them--nothing but the good
                        ship with its usual after cabins for the captain and mates, and, luckily, an
                        extra cabin for the doctor, when we carried coolies.
                    We were homeward bound, with hearts full  of
                        hope, and with spirits that rose every day. We had a fine ship and a good
                        captain; we had been out sixteen months and were anxious for home. The smell
                        of the Christmas pudding was in our nostrils, and we urged the old ship
                        forward to make the best passage of her life, so that we could be home for
                        Christmas Day.
                    It was a tight squeeze. The run from Demerara to London is calculatad at from
                        twenty-eight to thirty-two days, but, as a matter of fact, it is rarely made
                        under the latter number, and during the winter months, when the Western
                        ocean fights the homeward-bound ships with all the fury of its nature, the
                        time usually extends to forty days or over.
                    I was the third mate of the Rohilla, and had followed her fortunes for nearly
                        five years. We were in the coolie emigration trade, and three trips had I
                        made with living cargoes of coolies to work on the sugar plantations of
                        Demerara and the surrounding islands. As I said, we had been gone from
                        London sixteen months. We had gone from London to Cape Town, thence to
                        Madras, thence to Calcutta, and from there  to
                        Demerara with the coolies. So far, it had been, in every way, a prosperous
                        voyage. Captain Sennit had been a new man when we started out, but he had
                        soon shown himself to be a thorough sailor, and we had all learned to have
                        confidence in his judgment.
                    It took some time to discharge the coolies in Demerara and wait for the
                        government inspectors to get through with the ship. As a coolie emigrant
                        ship, we had been stocked with more things than a fancy grocery shop. After
                        the coolies were discharged we had to get rid of everything and turn over an
                        itemized account to the British government of what had been used. We had to
                        show what sailors term a "clean hold" when the inspector
                        came on board, and after examining carefully to see that we had not stored
                        away any of the government groceries for our private consumption, he gave
                        his gracious permission to reload and start for home as soon as we
                        could.
                    It was in the after cabin one evening that Captain Sennit had said:
                        " It would be a fine thing if we could get home for Christmas
                        Day."  The first mate echoed his
                        sentiments, and I thought it would be rather a good thing myself. The
                        captain had a wife and two daughters expecting him. He kept their
                        photographs in the little recess over his bed, and when he was in doubt over
                        any question relating to the management of the vessel he used to go down and
                        talk to the pictures as if they were able to advise him. The first mate had
                        a wife waiting for him at home, and a letter he had received in Calcutta had
                        brought him the news of a son that had been born to him, and he was
                        naturally eager to get home and see his first-born. The second mate was a
                        bachelor, and he remarked, after the conference before mentioned:
                        "I don't care a rope's end when we get home. The
                        longer we stay out, the more money we'll have comin' to
                        us."
                    It was well on in November before we got the ship cleared and ready to load.
                        Then we had to get a cargo aboard before we could start home. It consisted
                        of rum, sugar of three kinds, molasses and cocoa pods. It wasn't a
                        heavy cargo, and we doubted whether we should 
                        be ballasted heavy enough on our run home. Then we had to provision
                        besides.
                    We worked like Turks getting everything ship-shape, and were about ready to
                        sail when we first heard of our passengers. Captain Sennit had been ashore
                        all day, and when he came aboard in the evening we saw something was
                        troubling him. We had another conference in the after cabin, and then we
                        learned that an English lady-a widow-and her little daughter wanted to get
                        to England by Christmas Day, and no steamer would come to Demerara until
                        three days before Christmas. If she was to get there at all, it must be by
                        our ship. "It's a nuisance, I know, boys," said
                        the skipper, "but we can't refuse to take her. I saw her
                        for a few moments to-day in the agent's office, and she looked
                        worried. She hasn't got a hell of a lot of money, and I told her
                        that if my mates made no objection, I'd take her. She wanted to
                        know what the passage would cost her, and I told her that we'd
                        settle that when she got on board. Now, look here, the Christmas
                        season's a-coming on.  Here are we, a
                        lot of shell-backed old salts, that never have a chance to do anything for
                        anybody. Let's all chip in and take her home. The little
                        girl's the prettiest thing I ever saw. If the owners kick,
                        we'll pay'em the passage money out of our own pockets; if
                        they don't, why it shan't cost nothing, except the cursed
                        bother of having a woman slopping around the ship when we want to make a
                        tight run."
                    We put the matter to the vote and tried to make it unanimous, but the second
                        mate held out, voting against it. "He'd be damned if
                        he'd have a woman in his ship if he was a skipper," he
                        said. However, there were three votes against him and we carried the
                        day.
                    The woman was Mrs. Penfold. She was a widow, not over twenty-eight or thirty
                        years old. She was as pretty a woman as a sailor could wish to see, and as
                        for her daughter, she was like an angel. She had great big eyes, as blue as
                        the water of the Pacific Ocean in a calm, and her hair was golden as the
                        sunbeams that fall on Rio Grande. She was about ten years old, and she won a
                        friend in every white man on  the ship before
                        she had been on board ten minutes.
                    We had fitted up the doctor's cabin for the passengers, and in the
                        fitting up every man had to lend some part of his duds. The old skipper even
                        hung the photographs of his daughters in the cabin, and the mate cut some
                        pictures of ships out of a book he had and pasted them over the places in
                        the wall where the paint had been rubbed off. The second mate refused to
                        recognize this "foolishness," as he called it, until the
                        widow had spoken to him for about fifteen minutes to the exclusion of
                        everybody else, and when I happened to go into the cabin I found him laying
                        a new pair of red blankets and an Indian shawl on the settee that ran around
                        the cabin. He blushed when I caught him, and said: "What are you
                        grinning at She's a woman, ain't she?"
                    And so we sailed. It was the morning of the 23d of November when we got the
                        anchor up and pulled over the bar at the mouth of the George river. A fair
                        wind was blowing, and away we went, as straight for old England as it was
                            pos-sible for a ship to go. Thirty-one
                        days to cross the ocean in, and one day to get home for Christmas. Could we
                        do it? That was the all-absorbing question.
                    "I think she'll stand the royals in this breeze,"
                        said the skipper, and in five minutes the Rohilla pushed another foot
                        forward under the influence of two more sails.
                    That was a sail for you, if you please. There was no fussing about the trick
                        at the wheel. One of the officers steered the ship most of the time. When
                        the skipper was on deck he used to take the helm. The most experienced man
                        at the helm was the order of the day and night.
                    "We mustn't lose an inch," said the first mate. If
                        a sail was to be loosed, it was an officer that was always first on the
                        yard, and there was never a grumble among the men at being turned out in the
                        middle of the night "just to take an extra turn at a
                        brace." We got everything out of the old hooker we could, and
                        trusted to God for the rest. The first three days we made six hundred and
                        ninety miles, and, if we could have kept that gait up, we  could have been at home in thirteen days.
                        Mrs. Penfold got along swimmingly. She and her little girl were good
                        sailors; and, although we had rough weather from the start, with a heavy
                        wind all the time, neither she nor the child was sick. The little one was
                        the idol of the men forward. They carried her aloft, made toys for her out
                        of rope, carved wooden images for her, made miniature ships, fished up rare
                        seaweed from over the side, and, in fact, were her devoted slaves from the
                        time she awoke in the morning till she went to bed at night.
                    The first Sunday after we were out a curious thing happened. It was a bright,
                        sunshiny day, and the men took advantage of it to do a bit of washing. Three
                        or four of them sat on deck with a bucket of water and their wardrobe,
                        scrubbing away and smoking at the same time. One or two men sat on the deck
                        and played cards, and others sang sea songs about "The Aberdeen
                        Lass" or "The Ship That Went Down in Dublin Bay."
                        Flossie Penfold, that was the child's name, came out on deck,
                        dressed with more care than usual. I think every one  wondered why, no one realizing that the extra dress was in
                        honor of Sunday. She looked at the sailors forward, and then she noticed
                        Irish Jack, one of the boatswain's mates, washing his shirts. He
                        was one of her favorites among the crew. She ran down off the poop and along
                        the slippery deck, and when she got to Jack she said: "Jack, I
                        didn't think you'd do that on Sunday."
                    "Why, Lord love you, miss," said Jack. "When
                        should I do it, but when the sun's a-shining and the
                        ship's a-going home? We have to get cleaned up a bit afore we gets
                        home."
                    "I don't care," she replied.
                        "It's not right to work on Sunday, and I dressed up
                        so's we could have church, and you don't seem half so good
                        as you usually are, or you wouldn't do it."
                    Then she sidled up to Jack and touched his cheek, rough and scaly with salt
                        and sun, and somehow or other Jack laid down his washing, and, when the
                        little maid ran aft, a moment later, he kicked the cards out of the hands of
                             one of the gambling sailors and said,
                        "Get up, ye bloody swine; don't ye know it's
                        Sunday?"
                    The men looked at him in astonishment, but the washing and the card-playing
                        stopped.
                    Flossie's work did not end there. She came aft and found the skipper
                        and insisted that she wanted to go to church. It was in vain that the
                        skipper assured her that there was no church at sea. She looked so grieved,
                        and promised to be so unhappy unless her wish was complied with, that old
                        Sennit set about to fulfull her wish. He put on a clean shirt and sent word
                        forward to the crew, and he had the strange experience of meeting the crew
                        in the after cabin, where he read some passages of Scripture out of an old
                        Bible that he had, and followed it up with an attempt at a sermon. Through
                        it all Flossie listened attentively, and nodded around at the sailors as
                        much as to say, "You see! we can have church if we want
                        to."
                    After church Irish Jack was heard to say: "Well, it don't
                        do no harm, and maybe it'll help us along to get home by Christmas
                        time, as the skipper seems to have set his heart upon."
                    
                    We did punish the old ship cruelly. The spars bent and seemed to crack under
                        the pressure of sail we put upon them. The wind freshened, and got stronger
                        day by day. We had to begin by taking in the royals, then the top-gallant
                        sails, and we had to run under reefed mainsail and topsails before we had
                        been out two weeks. With it all, we made astonishing head-way, for the wind
                        was fair, and every gust blew us nearer home. It promised to be a record-
                        breaking passage.
                    It was on the 10th of December that our bad luck came. It was during my watch
                        on deck. The wind had increased to a heavy gale during the last two days,
                        and the waves were running mountain high. In the morning we had passed a
                        vessel, scudding under bare poles, and we had noticed that her fore topmast
                        had gone over-board, and that her sails were in shreds. Our vessel was
                        running under two topsails and a storm jib, and we feared for these every
                        minute, the wind was so strong. It just surged and howled through the
                        rigging. The storm birds were beaten to our decks sometimes, and more  than once we saw them borne down by the wind
                        and dashed upon the waves. I had seldom seen a stronger wind. Still it kept
                        increasing in violence. All day we stayed on deck watching the flying scud,
                        and the skipper kept muttering to himself, "I don't like
                        this; I don't like this."
                    In the afternoon the sky turned yellow and the clouds seemed to break into
                        small pieces. With this change came more wind, until, with a crash, like
                        that of a cannon salute, away went the fore-topsail yard, sail and all. The
                        men rushed to clear away the wreckage, when all of a sudden the wind died
                        down, and there was not enough to move a yacht. It was the most ghastly
                        feeling I ever experienced. One minute a hurricane, the next no wind. It was
                        not calm. The sea was running in huge waves that lifted the old ship into
                        the air, and let her down again until her timbers shivered, and creaked, and
                        groaned like a living thing. She rolled from side to side, having no wind to
                        steady her. Up out of the cabin came Mrs. Penfold and her daughter. They had
                        been confined for days,  unable on account of
                        the fury of the wind and the waves, which washed across the decks, to
                        venture out. They were careworn, and tired from loss of sleep, and Mrs.
                        Penfold looked anxious. The men were all staring aft at the old skipper,
                        walking up and down the poop, now holding on to the shrouds, now clinging to
                        the pin-rail around the mizzen-mast. He turned and saw Mrs. Penfold.
                    "Get below!" he shouted. The command was so vigorously
                        given, and had so little of politeness in it, that down went Mrs. Penfold
                        like a shot. Little Flossie was not afraid of the skipper, though, and she
                        left the companionway and started across the slippery deck to meet him. In
                        vain he yelled for her to go back. She clung to the rail and smiled at him.
                        He was fearful for her and started toward her, when suddenly a huge wave,
                        lifting itself above the rest, surged after the helpless ship and came on
                        board us. Down went the man at the helm as if struck by an ax. The mate and
                        I jumped for the mizzen rigging and got it. The skipper made a grab for the
                        child, but before he could  reach her the wave
                        struck her and lifted her up, up among the rigging, and beat her here and
                        there, until, by some lucky chance, she struck against the mate, who was
                        clinging to the rat-lines, and he held her fast. In one minute it was over.
                        The ship began to throw off the burden of water and we took stock of our
                        damage. The mate went to the wheel and yelled that the rudder was gone.
                        Gone! In such a gale as this! We were helpless. He had given the child to me
                        and I held her in my arms. She was unconscious, her little body was bruised
                        and the blood trickled from a wound in her forehead.
                    The captain was half drowned. He realized in a minute what the loss of the
                        rudder meant, and he jumped to the deck below and began to get out a huge
                        hemp hawser that was stowed ready for the London tug boat. He bent small
                        lines to it, bending it into a bight first, and then with a word or two to
                        the men, he began to get it overboard. It would steer the ship in an
                        emergency.
                    "Work with a will, men," cried the skipper. "We
                        must get her head round to the north.  The
                        wind'll shift in a few minutes, and if it catches us aback,
                        we'll go to the bottom."
                    Over went the hawser, and he stationed four men at the guy-ropes to steer the
                        vessel by it.
                    "Get your helm a-weather," he shouted, just as if the ship
                        had a good rudder with the best apparatus. The shift was made some way.
                        "Slack your lee braces," he cried. "Come in on
                        those weather braces! Keep that sail taut!" And so, skillfully, and
                        with care, the skipper wore the ship around, and scarcely had it been done
                        before down came the gale upon us again, this time from the north, and it
                        blew with a tenfold intensity. Away went the ship before it, keeping clear
                        of the waves that would have come aboard us if they could, running directly
                        back on our course and away from home.
                    It was the 19th before that gale abated, and we were able to get the vessel
                        back into her course. By that time we were to the southward of Demerara, and
                        farther from England than when we started. The hawser did very well for a
                        time, but we could not keep the ship on her course. We had to go pretty much
                        whichever  way the wind blew. Provisions were
                        running short, too. Two casks of beef had been washed overboard in the gale.
                        There was no getting home for Christmas now, not even if we had the fastest
                        steamer in the world, so we made the best we could of the matter, and
                        determined to get home as soon as we could.
                    All this time little Flossie Penfold had been lying ill in her
                        mother's cabin. Day after day we learned that she was worse, and
                        had to convey the sorrowful intelligence to the crew. The men would have
                        given their life's blood to save her, but the old skipper, who was
                        something of a surgeon, told them all the Sunday before Christmas that there
                        was little hope for her.
                    We held a meeting in the cabin, when we received this intelligence, and it
                        was decided to call the crew aft. They came, and we held a prayer-meeting.
                        It was not a regular meeting. One after another of the men prayed for her
                        life, and although most of the men were readier with oaths than prayers,
                        there were prayers offered up by hard old salts who had tears in their eyes.
                        It seemed hard to have that bright-eyed child 
                        dying in the cabin when there were so many strong men that would have been
                        willing to take her place, but we had to hope on and do the best we could.
                        The men went about their work in silence. There was no more card-playing, no
                        grumbling about short rations, no thought of Christmas.
                    It was on Christmas Eve that the end came. Flossie recovered consciousness
                        for a short time, and she asked her mother to bring the sailors to her. Her
                        mother came to me with the request, and I piped the men aft and told them to
                        walk quietly. Irish Jack headed them, and the men came sorrowfuly and
                        silently. One by one they went into Mrs. Penfold's cabin and said a
                        few words to the dying child. Then they kissed her little hand and went out.
                        Not a man left the cabin with dry eyes. "She ast me not to swear
                        any more," said Irish Jack, "and d-n me if I
                        don't keep my promise to her."
                    After the crew had gone the skipper and I went in, and the second mate, who
                        proved as gentle as a child himself. He soothed Mrs. Penfold better than any
                        of us could, and man-aged to say just the
                        right thing to her every time. She seemed to take comfort in what he told
                        her. Then the skipper read to the little one about those who go down to the
                        sea in ships. Then she kissed us all and said, "Good-night; I feel
                        so tired," and then she turned over and went to sleep.
                    Next day was Christmas Day and we buried her then. Every man put on his best
                        clothes and the carpenter made her a coffin out of some sheet lead that was
                        in the forecastle. The sorrowing mother dressed the little body, and we
                        wrapped it in an English flag, and then put it in the lead coffin and
                        hammered the edges close. In the evening we all gathered at the after
                        gangway and the second mate and I held the little coffin in our arms. All
                        the crew came forward with bared heads and bade the child good-bye, and then
                        the skipper pulled out his prayer-book and began the prayer, "O God, at whose command the winds blow, and lift up the waves
                            of the sea, and who stilleth the rage thereof," and all
                        the crew said "Amen" in the right place,
                        and looked with the deepest pity on the poor, 
                        weeping mother. And when the old captain, with a quiver in his voice, read:
                            "We, therefore, commit this body to the deep, to
                            be turned into corruption, looking for the resurrection of the body
                            (when the sea shall give up her dead) and the life of the world to come,
                            through our Lord Jesus Christ," every man in the crew
                        burst forth into a sob, and we launched the little coffin, which fell into
                        the ocean with a splash.
                    It was the most sorrowful Christmas that ever I spent at sea. It seemed as if
                        we should never get over it. We couldn't drive the old ship to
                        England without a rudder, and so we just had to let her drift where she
                        would, and she ran her nose into the Azores. Here we ran her into dry dock
                        for repairs. We all went home by steamer. The crew went first, as the
                        officers had to stay behind and make affidavit as to the loss of the rudder
                        and the death we had on board.
                    When it was all over we, the mates, the skipper and Mrs. Penfold, started to
                        England as passengers. We had a glorious passage, and arrived in England on
                        January 30. The second mate was a constant attendant on Mrs. Penfold,  and the last words the skipper said to me as
                        he took the train for the south of England, to see his wife and daughters,
                        was, "Say, my boy, I shouldn't be surprised to hear that
                        the second mate makes up to Mrs. Penfold, eh?" And he was right,
                        for in a little over a year, when the skipper and I returned from another
                        voyage, we received invitations to the wedding of Mrs. Penfold and the
                        bachelor second mate.
                
                
                
                    ALL'S WELL
                    
                        "It is thy duty to leave another man's wrongful act,
                            there where it is."
                        --Marcus Aurelius.
                    
                    THE light flared out from the window of the canteen in
                        Gosport barracks, and marked a broad pathway across the parade ground.
                        Outside, the rain was falling--the monotonus drizzle broken only by the
                        tramp of the sentinel at the barracks gate. Inside the canteen, a dozen or
                        more hilarious men recited strange verses and sang songs that were not good
                        to hear. They were private soldiers, but snatches of their talk betrayed the
                        fact that they were educated men.
                    "Kipling's name for us is the most appropriate,"
                        shouted a man, waving his pewter mug. "Here's to the
                        gentlemen-rankers, the Legion of the Lost Ones!"
                    
                    "Hear! hear!" shouted one or two men. "
                        Let's have the verses."
                    "Where's Arthur Russell?" cried another.
                        "Get up, Arthur, and give us the rhyme."
                    From the end of the dirty table a young man rose and mounted his chair. His
                        tunic was unbuttoned, his hair, uncombed, fell over his forehead. The face
                        was handsome, and dissipation had been unable to rob it of its sweetness and
                        honesty. Raising his glass to the men around the table, he began:
                    
                        
                            "To the legion of the lost ones, to the cohort
                                of the damned,
                            To my brethren in their sorrow over seas,
                            Sings a gentleman of England, cleanly bred, machinely
                                crammed,
                            And a trooper of the Empress, if you please,
                            Yea, a trooper of the forces, who has run his own six
                                horses,
                            Who went the pace, and faith he went it blind,
                            And the world was more than kin while he held the ready
                                tin,
                            But to-day the Sergeant's something less than
                                kind."
                        
                        
                            "We're poor little lambs
                                who've lost their way,
                            Baa! Baa! Baa!
                            We're little black sheep who've gone
                                astray,
                            Baa-aa-aa!
                            
                            Gentlmen-rankers out on a spree,
                            Damned from here to eternity--
                            God ha'mercy on such as we!
                            Bah! Yah! Bah!"
                        
                    
                    "Man outside wants to see private Russell," interrupted the
                        canteen-keeper.
                    "All right," said Russell. "Go on with the rhyme,
                        boys; back in a minute."
                    He stepped off the rickety chair and passed out into the darkness and
                        drizzle.
                    By the side of the door stood a young man, well dressed. He was biting
                        nervously at the fingers of his gloves. He stepped forward as Russell came
                        out of the light.
                    "Arthur! " he said.
                    "My God, Charley!" cried the private soldier.
                        "What are you doing here?"
                    " I came down with Mildred," replied the man. "She
                        made me come. We learned of your whereabouts only yesterday. We were to be
                        married next week, but she said she would not marry me until she had spoken
                        to you once more. I think she suspects something. You won't tell
                        her the truth, will you, Arthur? We are to be so  happy. I've-I've given up the cards and all
                        that sort of thing, and--and--I love her so--and, Arthur, there is no need
                        for you to stay on like this. I'll buy your
                        discharge--and--"
                    "Never mind, Charley," said the private, laying his hand on
                        the shoulder of his visitor. "I'm all right. I shall tell
                        her nothing. I don't know who forged father's name, but
                        the blame is mine. I have stood it now for two years. I shall stand it to
                        the end. It's my own fault, Charley. I promised mother to look
                        after you, and if you fell among thieves, I guess I was responsible for it.
                        I heard of father's death while I was in Egypt. I never got a line
                        from him. He still believed in my guilt?"
                    The well-dressed brother nodded without speaking.
                    "It is irretievable," continued Russell. "This is
                        my life. I shall live it out. I will not see Mildred--she need never
                        know."
                    "But she is here," said the younger brother. "She
                        is waiting around the corner for me to call her."
                    He whistled; and from around the corner  came a
                        girl in response to the summons. As she passed the canteen window, one of
                        the soldiers began on the second verse of the rhyme that Russell had
                        started:
                    
                        
                            "If the home we never write to, and the oaths we
                                never keep,
                            And all we know most distant and most dear,
                            Across the snoring barrack-room return to break our
                                sleep,
                            Can you blame us if we soak ourselves in
                                beer?"
                        
                    
                    The group of three stood in the rain listening. The girl's hand had
                        found that of the private soldier. As the verse halted she turned and kissed
                        him.
                    "Don't, Mildred," he cried. " I am not
                        fit. Listen. It is all true what they have said about me. It was a useless
                        journey for you. This is part of my punishment. I shall stay here. Marry
                        Charley, dear, and help him to live his life and to be a stronger and better
                        man than I have been. I have nothing to say to you about the past. I can not
                        listen to you--I must not stay talking here. They will wonder where I
                        am." Even as he spoke there came the cry:
                    
                    "Russell!--Where in the devil's Russell? Get him here for
                        the last verse."
                    "All right, fellows-coming," shouted the private.
                    Turning to the girl, he clasped both her hands; looking in her face, he said:
                        "Thank you for believing in me, dear; I am not worth it."
                        He kissed her on the forehead and turned to his brother:
                    "Take her, Charley," he said. "Take care of her
                        and make her happy. God be with you both---good-bye. Don't write to
                        me. Forget me if you can."
                    He left them standing there. He dashed into the canteen and leaped on the
                        table crying: "Now, then, boys, for the last verse!" His
                        voice rang out a trifle unsteady:
                    
                        
                            "We have done with Hope and Honor; we are lost
                                to Love and Truth;
                            We are dropping down the ladder rung by rung,
                            And the measure of our torment is the measure of our
                                youth,
                            God help us, for we knew the worst too young!
                            
                            Our shame is clean repentance for the crime that brought
                                the sentence,
                            Our pride it is to know no spur of pride,
                            And the curse of Reuben holds us till an alien turf
                                enfolds us
                            And we die, and none can tell them where we
                                died."
                        
                    
                    Then the chorus rang out:
                    
                        
                            "We're poor little lambs
                                who've lost their way,
                            Baa! Baa! Baa!
                            We're little black sheep who've gone
                                astray,
                            Baa! Baa! Baa!
                            Gentlemen-rankers out on a spree,
                            Damned from here to eternity--
                            God ha' mercy on such as we!
                            Bah! Yah! Bah!"
                        
                    
                    The chorus was greeted with a medley of applause from these men, private
                        soldiers, apart from their kind. The man and the woman outside had listened
                        to the words, so pathetic to them because each realized their bitter truth.
                        As they moved off the woman was weeping.
                    As they passed the alert sentinel at the gate he was saying softly to
                        himself, "God ha' mercy on such as we!" He broke
                        off as he presented arms to the couple passing out, and then through the
                        barracks he started the cry, "All's well!"
                
                
                THE  END
            
        
        
            
            
                JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY'S WORK IN POETRY AND PROSE
                BY PROF. JOHN CLARK RIDPATH EDITOR OF THE ARENA
                
                JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY'S WORK IN POETRY AND PROSE.
                By Prof John Clark Ridpath
                (Reprinted from The Arena.)
                The cycle of James Whitcomb Riley's poetry becomes an orbit. He swings
                    out into space and returns to us at intervals, ever brighter and warmer. Riley's
                    muse is born out of the sweet virginity of this New World, where Love is still
                    tolerated and God is a possibility.
                James whitcomb Riley is out of the West-the abjured West. I will try to describe
                    his country and his genesis.
                The Ohio valley is shaped like a maple-leaf. It has two great thoroughfares. God
                    made one, and man the other. The first is La Belle
                        Rivière herself; the second is the National Road. In the
                    latter, Henry Clay competed with nature in making a way for civilization into
                    the Great West. It was one of the most rational and beneficent of human
                    works.
                The great road, creeping from Virginia, found a gap in the Alleghanies. It made
                    its way through Ohio and Indiana, and tentatively at least to St. Louis. Along
                    this route, not only liberty, but art and letters and all humanities, with the
                    warmth and splendor of a new intellectual life, were to come. They were to
                    disseminate themselves through a region of more than two hundred thousand square
                    miles of the most beautiful country in the world
                One of the primitive villages on the National Road,  twenty miles east of Indianapolis, was called Greenfield. Like all the rest,
                    it began with a tavern where the stagecoaches stopped at night, where the
                    emigrant wagons halted and camped, where the first store had shoes and sugar,
                    bullets and whisky, hardware and hats, to sell to the few inhabitants of the
                    perfectly level, heavily wooded country stretching for miles away.
                The old National Road is the main street of Greenfield. Every pleasant day fleets
                    of cyclers of both sexes come whirling out from Indianapolis and back again. As
                    they pass down Main street, they sometimes stop, opposite the Pennsylvania
                    railway station, to see that their rigging and dress are à
                        la mode before rushing into the crowded part of the town about
                    court-house square. Just where they stop is a little white frame house, on the
                    north side of the street, with square windows above and below, and two brick
                    chimneys rising through the "comb" of the roof. It is the
                    birthplace of James Whitcomb Riley! The house is two stories high, and stands so
                    close to the sidewalk that there is little room for a yard. The neighbors pay no
                    attention to it. The neighbors never did pay attention to anything. We are
                    always imagining that the great and interesting thing is far off! So it is with
                    the birthplace of Riley. So it is with the shrine of Delphi, which is now
                    covered with a goat-house!
                The dat of Riley's birth is not generally known. He is past forty years
                    of age, but he still looks young. The boy was not old enough to go to the war;
                    but his father, Reuben A. Riley, and his eldest broth, John S. Riley, were
                    soldiers. The father was a captain. He was a talented and highly respected man,
                    a lawyer by profession, with a  touch of the
                    philosopher in his character, quite original in his ways and habits of
                    thought.
                The mention of the father suggests a word about the poet's relations to
                    the home-folks. For them he has always had a profound affection, and to them he
                    has dedicated nearly all of his books. His dedications show the heart of the
                    poet. He has always been profoundly ambitious to be heard by the world--by all
                    the world; and yet he has never sacrificed his love for the home-folks by
                    putting the names of the renowned over against his titles.
                Of the first childhood of Riley not much is known. He was an eccentric and not a
                    well-grown boy. He was smaller in stature and not so strong as his age would
                    indicate. His hands were little. His face and hair were white. He joined in the
                    sports of the village, but not the rougher sort. There was an element of
                    singularity about him which prevented his complete assimilation with the rest.
                    He was sent to the village school, but there the nature of the boy stood in the
                    way of what we call education.
                Nor need we greatly sorrow in the case of this exceptional genius that the
                    formalities and processes of the graded and high school came to naught. His
                    development lay not that way. It is an open question whether hydrostatics and
                    logarithms would not in the case of the poet have been a positive detriment to
                    his development and ascendency. Would not such forms of knowledge have hung like
                    cobwebs before his eyes, not to be easily brushed away when he would fain be
                    looking at the humorous and pathetic aspects of human life?
                But there is another education of which Riley has had  an abundance of the best, and that is, the education of the
                    senses. What he knows, he knows by his senses. To him the eye and the ear are
                    everything; that is, the eye and the ear, the touch, the taste, the intellectual
                    gaze, the emotion, the sentiment, the heart within.
                A biography not careful of the reputation of his subject would say that young
                    Riley at length "ran off" from Greenfield. We say he went
                    away. He was then in his teens. Lamentable it is, but he joined himself to a
                    show and took to such travel and experience as the exhibition afforded.
                He was valuable to the management and interesting to himself for his ability to
                    play the fiddle and the guitar. To this day we may note in his poetry humorous
                    references to the music extorted countrywise from these instruments. Whither the
                    youth stroller went with the exhibition, nobody knows. He does not himself know.
                    It is one of the peculiarities of the man that he has no bump for locality. It
                    is the literal truth that the places which he visits swim around and find no
                    lodgment in his memory.
                Let none think, however, that the mind of the poet is in anywise obscure, or that
                    it does not profoundly and distinctly know. I have seen in his manuscript, which
                    he always prepares with the utmost care, certain places where he has been
                    rhetorically or grammatically in doubt. It may be noted there that he has
                    written the proper thing, erased it, interlined the improper, then read again,
                    erased the improper, and gone back to the true! Critics and scholars may some
                    day be surprised and instructed by  a study of the
                    changes and other peculiarities in Riley's manuscript.
                While our poet was traveling with "the show," he began to come
                    into that intimate contact with human nature and to acquire that living sympathy
                    with its mysteries and distresses which have constituted the principal materials
                    of his artistic life. We have remarked about his love for music. That was one
                    thing which bound him to the far-off underside of human nature with which he was
                    at that time associated. He could sing. He knew by heart all the old ballads and
                    folk-songs of the Ohio Valley. How many instruments he can play no man knoweth
                    to this day. How many sounds and imitations of man and beast he learned to
                    produce in his character of attachè to a show, it
                    were vain to conjecture. How drifted along and got detached and found his way
                    back to his native town, we know not.
                Riley was still a boy when he began to show signs of facility in creative art.
                    One of his early whims was to draw and paint. He can at the present time make
                    excellent pen-sketches as illustrations for his poems. I saw him one evening
                    draw "Billy Goodin'" (the boy who eats everything, in one of the "Rhymes of
                    Childhood") to please the little girl who had been recitin the piece.
                    And the sketch might do honor to Thackeray or Cruikshank.
                Riley went out on the sign-writing business. In painting signs, he introduced a
                    mixture of art with his artisanship. Sometimes he pretended to be blind while he
                    painted--to the admiration of men! Meanwhile, how the struggle for existence was
                    maintained, how he fed himself  and where he
                    slept, non may ever know. The pale-faced, blue-eyed, small-handed,
                    fiddle-playing, sign-writing boy, now approaching full growth, rambled about
                    several states. He was as unknown as any particle of human dust that ever
                    drifted through this blinded sphere.
                Once more at Greenfield the strange young fellow began "to write for the
                    papers." Aye, more; he became associated editorially with a county
                    newspaper. What he produced we do not know, though doubtless it is there in
                    print. It would be instructive and amusing--provocative alike of laughter and of
                    tears--if we could now regain and put together all that this strange and
                    inspired mortal produced in the little journal where he first tried his powers
                    of composition. There it was that he became a poet. By and by his pieces found a
                    limited insertion in papers of a larger growth; but the struggle for recognition
                    was hard, long, and doubtful. He learned to send his poems to reputable
                    newspapers and magazines; but they all went one way. The waste-basket swallowed
                    them at a gulp. Probably no other young writer, of whatever merits, has suffered
                    in his first days more deeply by rebuff and rejection and indifference than has
                    Riley. Even when at last he had a volume ready for publication, it was flatly
                    refused by one of the best publishing houses in the west.
                The name of the Hoosier poet began to be generally known. His wings grew. His
                    songs flew everywhere. His name was spoken by fame. Literary rumor took him up,
                    and carried him far. His humorous and pathetic pieces, so quaint and original,
                    were quoted by reputable journals as far as the Alleghanies, westward to the
                    Missouri, northward to Mackinaw, southward to the place of  the magnolias. Presently he published his first volume of Hoosier
                    Songs. This was the "Old Swimmin' Hole and 'Leven
                    More Poems." The people laughed and cried by turns over the humor and
                    the pathos of these pieces.
                It was in this work that the poet came to us in the lovable character of old
                    Benj. F. Johnson, of Boone. Glad we are to say that the veteran still lives,
                    that his eye is not dim, nor his natural force abated. The first publication was
                    made in 1883. Three years afterward The Bowen-Merrill Co., Indianapolis,
                    published his book of sketches--in prose and verse--under the title of
                    "The Boss Girl and other Stories," now entitled
                    "Sketches in Prose and Occasional Verses." This publication
                    brught him added fame. The title story, now known as "Jamsey,"
                    is fit to rank with the best short pieces of Bret Harte.
                Scholars and men of letters soon recognized the possibilities that were in the
                    coming man. In 1887 another volume of poems appeared under the title of
                    "After-whiles." In this the romantic as well as the humorous
                    and pathetic side of Riley's genius is seen in many of the poems. In
                    the following years came the volume entitled "Pipes o' Pan at
                    Zekesbury," in which the author introduces us to the "Raggedy
                    Man" and many other characters gathered from the common lot, but
                    glorified with the touch of sympathy and song. It was in this volume that the
                    genius of Riley for delineating child character in its natural forms and
                    passions were first strongly displayed.
                In 1891 was published "Neghborly Poems; on Friendship, Grief, and
                    Farm-Life," including a republication of the "Old
                    Swimming'-hole" series, all from the pen of the old farmer
                    poet, Benj. F. Johnson. Meanwhile a volume 
                    entitled "Old-fashioned Roses," from the title-poem, was made
                    up mostly from pieces which had appeared in "Afterwhiles," and
                    was brought out by Longmans, Green & Co., London. In 1891 also appeared
                    an édition de luxe of "An Old Sweetheart of
                    Mine," taken from "Pipes o' Pan" and
                    illustrated with colored plates. In 1893 appeared the volume entitled
                    "Green Fields and Running Brooks;" also, "Poems Here
                    at Home." This was followed in the fall of 1894 by
                    "Armazindy," in which some of the best qualities of Mr.
                    Riley's poetry are again displayed.
                Several years previously the poet prepared for publication, and did publish
                    locally, the work called "The Flying Islands of the Night."
                    Hitherto the cycle of his poetry had shown only the work of a lyrical genius,
                    singing the brief and pathetic songs of the people. Riley's muse had
                    appeared to be of short flight; she fluttered about the hedges, orchards,
                    gardens, rising possibly to the top of the old beech tree by the cabin. The
                    ability of the poet to continue long on wing had been doubted. The accordingly
                    published "The Flying Islands," describing the work, as if the
                    challenge public opinion, as a "Phantastic Drama in Verse."
                    The plan and style are a protest againt the current criticism that his work is
                    wholly lyrical. In the "Flying Islands" he first displays his
                    constructive skill, and is no longer local. He is no longer a mere master of
                    dialect, a serio-humorist, but a creative artist, rising into a new world of
                    vision and dream.
                "The Flying Islands of the Night" is one of the most original
                    compositions in the English language. The critics, failing to perceive that the
                    work is a conceit, a 
                    fantasy, a thing of pure imagination and weird whimsicality,
                    as much as the "Midsummer Night's Dream" itself, have
                    seemed thus far to shake their heads and sheer off from the "Flying
                    Islands"; but the poem is none the less destined at the last to
                    triumph. It is a work of universal humanity as much as
                    "Faust." The author has not only constructed, but created and
                    peopled his flying islands. The beings who inhabit Wunkland and Spirkland are as
                    real and living in their kind as are the people of the streets. Krung is a king,
                    and Jucklet is immortal.
                The poetry of James Whitcomb Riley has reached its popularity by means of certain
                    qualities which it possesses, different in kind and measure from anything to be
                    found in any other of our American bards. The first of these, perhaps, is the
                    absolute naturalness and fidelity of Riley's work. The transcript is
                    from both man and nature, but principally from man. More properly, it is
                    fidelity to life in all its forms, whether man-life or some other kind. Riley
                    sings the sorrows of the cricket, the exaltation of the tree-toad, with as much
                    truthfulness and hearty sympathy as though humanity were at stake. So vivid is
                    his appreciation of the world of small life hidden in grass and orchard that he
                    only, of all our later bards, is able to create Fairies and Little Folks. He
                    makes even the stiff, philosophical mind believe in the lost fairyland which
                    vanished with Shakespeare:
                
                    
                        An', wite by the pump in the pasture-lot,
                        He showed me the hole 'at the Wunks is got,
                        'At lives 'way deep in the ground an'can
                        Turn into me er 'Lizabuth Ann.
                    
                
                
                up in the realm of humanity nobody doubts the fidelity of the pictures which
                    Riley draws. Many times these are painfully true. Think of the little hunchback
                    who erstwhile weighed thirty-six, and still weighs thirty,
                    sitting at the window and shaking his fist at the burly Christmas boys outside,
                    challenging them to fight, and laughing, unconscious of the awful thing that has
                    him. Oh, it is pitiful! Or again, take Jonah, of the harelip, who was shunned by
                    everybody, left to his own desolation until what time he was drowned in an act
                    of heroism, and washed up away down the creek, face upwards, hare-lip still
                    there, more ugly than in life, but triumphant, loved, wept over, silently
                    jubilant in the unconscious victory over the hell of living.
                In hardly any other poetry do we find such a mixture of pathos and humor. The
                    emphasis is on the commingling of these qualities. The reader, under the spell
                    of Riley's poetry,--that is, if he is deep in it,--hardly knows whether
                    to laugh or cry. If Riley were a wit, the admixture of things in his song would
                    be complete. He has, however, but little wit--just as a poet ought not to have.
                    That is, he hurts nobody. His humor is immeasurable; but he
                    does not possess that quality of mind which delights in sting and satire. He
                    never carries a whip, even for the bad. In one single instance old Benj. F.
                    Johnson--perhaps on a rainy day and soured with an indigestion--writes
                    "Mylo Jones's Wife," but when he comes to
                    anathematize that bad woman, even his anger half turns to
                    humorous jest:
                
                
                    
                        Dad-burn Mylo Jones's wife!
                        Ruther rake a blame caseknife
                        'Crost my wizzen than to see
                        Sich a womern rullin' me.
                    
                
                In Riley all suffering and all calamity run, if possible, through the shadows of
                    pathos innto the sunny places of humor. The sufferer, whoever he is, always
                    shares the laugh. Does not "Coon-dog Wes," utterly ruined by
                    the crushing of his legs--both of them--under the tree which he had chopped
                    down, survive and laugh even at that?
                
                    
                        As fer him, he'd say, says 'ee,
                        I'm resigned to bein' lame:
                        They was four coons up that tree,
                        And hounds got 'em, jest the same.
                    
                
                Higher up than this, or deeper down, the sorrow sometimes breaks the heart, but
                    it does not kill. The old man and his aged wife can not participate in the
                    services of Decoration-day, but they still live and have joy in the heart. They
                    are alone with the memory of their Elias. They see the troop of little girls go
                    by in white, carrying their loads of roses. They hear the bands play. They see
                    the carriages and the procession. Then, when all are gone, they go out alone
                    under the apply trees to a single grave. They would gladly have joined with the
                    rest, but they could not. They old man says:
                
                    
                        We've tried that--me and Mother--where Elias takes his rest
                        In the orchard--in his uniform, and hands acrost his breast;
                        
                        And the flag he died fer, smilin' and a-ripplin' in the
                            breeze
                        Above his grave--and over that--a robin in the trees.
                        And yit it's, lonesome--lonesme. It's a
                            Sund'y-day to me,
                        It 'pears like--more'n any day I nearly ever see.--
                        Still, with the Stars and Stripes above, a-futterin' in the
                            air
                        On every soldier's grave, I'd love to lay a lily
                            thare.
                    
                
                The ability of Riley to seize upon and depict even the commonest circumstances,
                    and at the same time to clothe them with a vestment which, if not poetical, why
                    then, Messieurs the Critics, what is it?--It is this quality, we believe, in
                    Riley's verse which finally conquered Mr. Howells. He went down before
                    the poet's cricket and bumble-bee and rooster:
                
                    
                        The bumble-bee is pelted down
                        The wet stem of the hollyhock;
                        And sullenly, in spattered brown,
                        The cricket leaps the garden walk.
                    
                    
                        Within, the baby claps his hands
                        And crows with rapture strange and vague;
                        Without, beneath the rosebush, stands
                        A dripping rooster on one leg.
                    
                
                At times the muse of Riley become strangely intense and earnest. Then it is that
                    the profounder soul within is stirred to its depths. Among several of the songs
                    that exhibit this quality of intense, soul-moving thought and  sorrow, the best, perhaps, of all is the one
                    entitled "Home." Indeed, I hesitate whether or not to say this
                    is the greatest of all Riley's poems:
                
                    
                    
                        e must get home: all is so quiet there:
                        The touch of loving hands on brow and hair--
                        Dim rooms, wherein the sunshine is made mild--
                        The lost love of the mother and the child
                        Restored in restful lullabies of rain.
                        We must get home, we must get home again.
                    
                    
                        We must get home; and, unremembering there
                        All gain of all ambitions otherwhere,
                        Rest--from the feverish victory and the crown
                        Of conquest whose waste glory weighs us down.
                        Fame's fairest gifts we toss back with disdain--
                        We must get home, we must get home again.
                    
                    
                        We must get home, where, as we nod and drowse,
                        Time humors us and tiptoes through the house,
                        And loves us best when sleeping babywise,
                        With dreams--not tear-drops--brimming our clenched eyes,--
                        Pure dreams that know nor taint nor earthly stain.
                        We must get home--we must get home again!
                    
                
                Many mistakes have been made in the popular, and even critical, estimate of Riley
                    and his genius. One of these, perhaps the most important, is that which makes
                    him to be a poet of narrow range. There is an opinion that the
                    instrument of his art has only a few tones, when, as a matter of fact, it is the
                    broadest diapason that we have seen  in many a
                    year. It is not true that Riley sings only in a few keys. He has poems that lie further apart in the realms of song than can be paralleled
                    in the case of any other bard of these much-singing days. The fact is that the
                    very extremes of human nature have, as it were, been touched and sung by our
                    poet. Here, for example, are two of his well-known poems, "The
                    Fishin'" and "Illileo." Were there ever two
                    products of the human mind more wide apart than these?
                
                    
                        Wunst we went a-fishin'--me
                        An' my Pa an' Ma all three,
                        When they was a picnic, 'way
                        Out to Hanch's Woods, one day.
                    
                    
                        An' they was a crick out there,
                        Where the fishes is, an' where
                        Little boys 'taint big an' strong
                        Better have their folks along!
                    
                    
                    
                        Purt' nigh dark in town when we
                        Got back home; an' Ma says she,
                        Now she'll have a fish fer shore!
                        An' she buyed one at the store.
                    
                
                And here, in contrast, is the beautiful, mystical, romantic poem of
                
                    ILLILEO.
                    
                        Illileo, the moonlight seemed lost acros the vales--
                        The stars but strewed the azure as an armor's scattered
                            scales;
                        
                        The airs of night were quiet as the breath of silken sails,
                        And all your words were sweeter than the notes of nightingales.
                    
                    
                        Illileo Legardi, in the garden there alone,
                        With your figure carved of fervor, as the Psyche carved of stone,
                        There came to me no murmur of the fountain's undertone
                        So mystically, musically mellow as your own.
                    
                    
                        You whispered low, Illileo--so low the leaves were mute,
                        And the echoes faltered breathless in your voice's vain
                            pursuit;
                        And there died the distant dalliance of the serenader's
                            lute;
                        And I held you in my bosom as the husk may hold the fruit.
                    
                    
                        Illileo, I listened. I believed you. In my blis,
                        What were all the worlds above me since I found you thus in this?--
                        Let them reeling reach to win me-even heaven I would miss,
                        Grasping earthward!--I would cling here, though I clung by just a
                            kiss.
                    
                    
                        And blossoms should grow odorless--and lilies all aghast--
                        And I said the stars should slacken in their paces throug the vast,
                        Ere yet my loyalty should fail enduring to the last.
                        So vowed I. It is written. It is changeless as the past.
                    
                    
                        Illileo Legardi, in the shade your palace throws
                        Like a cowl about the singer at your gilded porticos,
                        
                        A moan goes with the music that may vex the high repose
                        Of a heart that fades and crumbles as the crimson of a rose.
                    
                
                Throughout all Riley's excursions as a poet may be seen traces of a
                    certain quaintness of spirit and method. Perhaps in a majority of all his
                    printed poems, reaching now well up to a thousand, such a trace of quaintness
                    may be discovered. An example is that odd stanza, broken off into zigzag and
                    running down like a companion-way in the afterpart, as we see first in Little Orphant Allie, the famous "Goble-un"
                    poem, which has been imitated hundreds of times in the verse-writing of the
                    day.
                Riley of all men living is, we believe, the only poet who ever produced a poem
                        written in blank verse and rhyming tetrameter; and yet
                    that is precisely the kind of a poem which he has given us in the
                    "Flying Islands of the Night." In that marvelous last scene,
                    in which Krung the king stands in reflective and despairing mood after the death
                    of Krestillomeem,--bewailing his loss, remembering her overpowering beauty, and
                    trying to make analysis of his reasons for loving her in spite of her
                    crimes,--he says that it may have been this or that which made him her
                    slave:
                
                    
                    
                        Or--who will say?--perhaps the way she wept.
                        Ho!--have ye seen the swollen heart of summer
                        Tempest, o'er the plain, with throbs of thunder
                        Burst apart and drench the earth with rain? She
                        Wept like that.--And to recall, with one wild glance
                        Of memory, our last love-parting--tears
                        And all--it thrills and maddens me! And yet
                        My dreams will hold her, flushed from lifted brow
                        
                        To finger-tips, with passion's ripest kisses
                        Crushed and mangled on her lips.... O woman! while
                        Your face was fair, and heart was pure, and lips
                        Were true, and hope as golden as your hair,
                        I should have strangled you!
                    
                
                I shall conclude these inadequate comments on the genius of James Whitcomb Riley
                    with the citation of a single bravura from "A Child-World." It
                    is that sweetest of sweet songs out of the dewy dawn, called
                
                    SONG OF THE CHILD-HEART.
                    
                        The Child-heart is so strange a little thing--
                        So mild--so timorously shy and small,--
                        When grown-up hearts throb, it goes
                            scampering
                        Behind the wall, nor dares peer out at all!
                        It is the veriest mouse
                        That hides in any house--
                        So wild a little thing is any Child-heart!
                    
                    
                        
                            Child-heart!--mild heart!--
                        
                        
                            Ho, my little wild heart!--
                        
                        
                            Come up here to me out o' the dark,
                        
                        
                            Or let me come to you!
                        
                    
                    
                        So lorn at times the Child-heart needs must be,
                        With never one maturer heart for friend
                        And comrade, whose tear-ripened sympathy
                        And love might lend it comfort to the end,--
                        Whose yearnings, aches, and stings,
                        Over poor little things
                        Were pitiful as ever any Child-heart.
                    
                    
                    
                        Times, too, the little Child-heart must be glad--
                        Being so young, nor knowing, as we
                            know,
                        The fact from fantasy, the good from bad,
                        The joy from woe, the--all that hurts us
                            so!
                        What wonder then that thus
                        It hides away from us?--
                        So weak a little thing is any Child-heart!
                    
                    
                        Nay, little Child-heart, you have never need
                        To fear, us;--we are weaker far than
                            you--
                        'Tis we who should be fearful--we
                            indeed
                        Should hide us, too, as darkly as you do,--
                        Safe, as yourself, withdrawn,
                        Hearing the World roar on
                        Too willful, woful, awful for the Child-heart!
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    *** No poet since Burns has sung so close to the ear of the common people of
                        the country.
                    
                        --N. Y. Independent.
                    
                
                JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY'S BOOKS
                
                    NEGHBORLY POEMS. Thirty-six poems in Hoosier dialect,
                        including "The Old Swimmin' Hole and 'Leven More
                        Poems," with eight half-tone illustrations. 12mo, cloth, $1.25;
                        half calf, $2.50.
                    SKETCHES IN PROSE. Twelve graphic stories, each prefaced
                        by a poem. 12mo cloth, $1.25; half calf, $2.50.
                    AFTERWHILES. Sixty-two poems and sonnets, with
                        frontispiece. 12mo cloth, $1.25; half calf, $2.50.
                    PIPES O' PAN. Five sketches and fifty poems,
                        with frontispiece. 12mo cloth, $1.25; half calf, $2.50.
                    RHYMES OF CHILDHOOD. One hundred and two dialect and
                        serious poems. Not for children only, but of childhood days, with
                        frontispiece. 12mo cloth, $1.25; half calf, $2.50.
                    THE FLYING ISLANDS OF THE NIGHT. A weird and grotesque
                        drama in verse. Fantastic, quaint and ingenious. 12 mo cloth, $1.25; half
                        calf, $2.50.
                    GREEN FIELDS AND RUNNING BROOKS. One hundred and two
                        poems and sonnets, dialect, humorous, and serious. 12mo cloth, $1.25; half
                        calf, $2.50.
                    ARMAZINDY. The latest and best dialect and serious work,
                        including "Armazindy" and the Poe Poem. 12mo cloth, $1.25;
                        holiday edition, six photogravures, $2.00.
                    A CHILD-WORLD (New). A continuous narrative [in dialect
                        and serious verse] of child-life and old-home tales in which young and old
                        participate in the story-telling. Uniform with his other volumes. 12mo
                        cloth, ornamental, $1.25. English edition, on hand-made paper, uniform with
                        "Old Fashioned Roses," 16mo, $2.00.
                    
                        ABOVE NINE VOLUMES, IN UNIFORM BINDINGS, IN A BOX, PER
                            SET, 12 MO CLOTH, $11.25; HALF CALF, $22.50; FULL MOROCCO, $45.00.
                    
                    OLD FASHIONED ROSES. Sixty-one selected poems and
                        sonnets, published in England. Printed on hand-made paper, 16mo, blue and
                        white cloth, gilt top, $1.75.
                    AN OLD SWEETHEART OF MINE. Illustrated, colored and
                        monotint plates. 10x12 flat quarto, cloth, gilt, $2.50.
                
                THE BOWEN-MERRILL CO. PUBLISHERS, INDIANAPOLIS, KANSAS
                    CITY.
            
            
            
                A Guest of the Ludlow
                BY EDGAR WILSON NYE[BILL NYE]
                
                    
                        Go, little booklet, go!--
                        Bearing and honored name,
                        'Till everywhere that you have went,
                        They're glad that you have came.
                    
                
                
                A volume of humorous stories and sketches, with twnety-one full page and twelve
                    smaller designs, the latter by the author.
                By arrangement with Mrs. Edgar W. Nye, The Bowen-Merrill Co. announce a volume of
                    humorous stories by Bill Nye (Edgar Wilson Nye), prepared for publication by him
                    during the last months of his life, entitled
                "A GUEST AT THE LUDLOW" AND OTHER
                    STORIES.
                It is printed, bound and illustrated in a style surpassing anything heretofore
                    issued of Mr. Nye's in book form, and containing the famous
                    humorist's best and most finished work. Twenty-eight stories and
                    numerous illustrations, including the author's introduction in
                    fac-simile. It is the handsomest copyrighted book published this season for the
                    price, $1.25, sent postpaid to any address on receipt of the price.
                
                    THE BOWEN-MERRILL CO., Publishers, Indianapolis and Kansas
                        City.
                
            
            
            
                A NEW BOOK OF SKETCHES, HUMOROUS AND PATHETIC, BY ROBERT
                    J. BURDETTE
                Chimes from a Jester's Bells
                BY ROBERT J. BURDETTE
                The many thousand admirers of the genial, wholesouled Burdette, who have heard
                    him on the platform during the past few years, will be pleased to get some of
                    his best work in this permanent book form.
                The volume contains several chapters of a delightful travesty on the old Rollo
                    books, "Rollo at Work," "Rollo at Play,"
                    etc.; also a number of other sketches written in Burdette's happiest
                    vein, and closing with the poem, "Cantistopthis."
                Beautifully illustrated and bound in uniform style with BIll Nye's
                    "A Guest at the Ludlow."
                Crown 8vo, gilt top, price postpaid, $1.25.
                The Bowen-Merrill Co., Publishers
                    INDIANAPOLIS AND KANSAS CITY.
            
            
            
                
                    
                        "There lived a Knight, when Knighthood was in
                            flow'r,
                        Who charmed alike the tilt-yard and the bow'r." 
                    
                
                When Knighthood was in Flower
                BY CASKODEN
                
                    A story of Charles Brandon and Mary Tudor, sister to Henry VIII.
                
                This story is so well known to the student of English history that I fear its
                    repetition will lack that zest which attends the development of an unforeseen
                    denouement. But it is of so great interest, and is so full, in its sweet, fierce
                    manifestation, of the one thing insoluble by time, Love, that I will
                    nevertheless rewrite it from old Sir Edwin Caskoden's memoir. Not so
                    much as an historical narrative, although I fear a little history will creep in,
                    despite me, but simply as a picture of that olden long ago, which, try as we
                    will to put aside the hazy, many-folded curtain of time, still retains its
                    shadowy lack of sharp detail, toning down and mellowing the hard aspect of real
                    life--harder and more unromantic even than our own--into the blending softness
                    of an exquisite mirage.--Note by the Author.
                12 mo, cloth, ornamental, illustrated, post-paid, $1.25.
                THE BOWEN-MERRILL CO., Publishers
                    INDIANAPOLIS AND KANSAS CITY.
            
        
    
