
     ----CITATION---- 
        Major, Charles, 1856-1913. Sweet Alyssum: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3901
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                SWEET ALYSSUM
            
            
            
                
                    SWEET ALYSSUM
                
                By CHARLES MAJOR
                INDIANAPOLISTHE BOBBS-MERRILL
                        CO. PUBLISHERS 
            
            
            
                Copyright 1911
                THE BOBBS-MERRiLL Co.
            
            
            
                SWEET ALYSSUM
            
        
        
            
            
                SWEET ALYSSUM
                ONE lazy summer day I sauntered over to the law office of my
                    old friend Judge Howard, hoping to hear a bit of gossip and perhaps a good story
                    or two. Here is one he told me. I have written it from memory. 
                I've been practicing law for forty years here in Blue River town, with
                    considerable energy and, I hope, all the honesty compatible with success, so
                    quite naturally a great many curious phases of human nature have come my
                    way.
                A priest sees penitent mankind, a physician sick humanity, but all the different
                    sorts of men, women and children that have ever 
                    been created flock to a lawyer's shop with their tales of joy and
                    woe.
                Now that I am getting old and easing up a bit in my work, the phantoms of many
                    bygone comedies, tragedies and romances are constantly trooping through my idle
                    brain. Some of them are grotesque as the antics of Harlequin, some of them as
                    dark and grewsome as any mediaeval tale, while others are fragrant as the breath
                    of the sweet alyssum, the flower-god of the honey bee, the shrine of the
                    butterfly. All of them are redolent of human nature. 
                Speaking of sweet alyssum did you ever hear the story of Sweet Alyssum, the Oil
                    Queen of Roger Township? No? Well, it has all sorts of human nature in it, so
                    I'll tell you about her. She brought oil and millions of dollars to
                    Roger Township. Of course I did not see and hear all that I shall tell you, but
                    I'll go ahead and give you the  story
                    without stopping to explain just how I learned it.
                I suppose there never was on earth, nor any place else, anything or any person so
                    beautiful as Sweet Alyssum Brooks. Her name was Elizabeth, but her father, out
                    of a heart full of love, coined the diminutive "Lissem," and
                    later another man, also out of a heart full of love, I believe, changed it to
                    Sweet Alyssum in compliment to the fragrant little flower of that name. And so
                    it has remained, officially, to this day. 
                And aside from being beautiful, Lissem was also a mascot. 
                Three or four years after the war, Roanoke Brooks, a splendid type of primitive
                    manhood, came up from Kentucky and rented a small farm in Roger Township, an
                    "outlying" district some ten or twelve miles north of here.
                    Roanoke, himself, is authority for the statement that he was born  unlucky, and that his ill fortune had continued to
                    grow in virulence until Sweet Alyssum was born. At any rate after he had settled
                    in Roger Township, everything went against him. He and his wife were sick most
                    of the time and his crops were poor all of the time. If by any chance he managed
                    to save a little money, he had to pay it out in fines, for, although a gentle,
                    kindly man by nature, he would fight if anyone called him a "damned
                    rebel." And some enthusiastic patriot was always ready with the epithet
                    whenever Roanoke got a few dollars ahead.
                "Blamed if they don't seem to smell my little roll just as soon
                    as I get it!" he said, complainingly, to me, one day, when seeking my
                    services. "And then some fool ups and holla's
                    'Dem'd rebell' Then he gets licked and I go broke
                    payin' my fine."
                Usually when Roanoke visited my office  it was with a
                    sad face, but one day he came in radiant. 
                "My bad luck's all gone, Jedge," said he.
                    "We've got a mascot at ouh house. Come last night. The cutest,
                    sweetest little ge'l baby yo' ever see. Huh real name is
                    Elizabeth, but I'm goin' to call huh Lissem. No mo'
                    fights, no mo' fines fo' me. She brought us good luck,
                    sho's yo' bo'n."
                And so she did bring good luck, not only to Roanoke, but to the entire
                    "outlying" township. 
                By the time Lissem was twelve years old, Roanoke had prospered to the extent that
                    he owned a hundred acres of ground, and lived in a large two-story log house,
                    all cozy and comfortable, and as picturesque as Roanoke himself, which is saying
                    a great deal. There was, of course, a mortgage on his farm which he said he
                    "had only b'en able to heft, not to lift clean off."
                    In after years he  loved to tell how "Sweet
                    Alyssum h'isted the pesky thing and throwed it clean ovah into the next
                    cyounty i' jacks."
                I first saw Lissem-and fell in love with her-when she was two years old, and
                    I've been falling in love with her ever since. From babyhood to
                    womanhood she hardly changed, save in stature, and that her hair took a glossier
                    black and the glow of her great brown eyes became gentler and softer, if that
                    were possible, while the part of Himself which God had given her-the Life of
                    her, so to speak-grew in radiance until, as womanhood approached, she fairly
                    shone with vital luster. 
                A woman, you know, who retains her childhood, always has mankind at her feet. 
                During Lissem's unlucky thirteenth year her mother died, leaving her the
                    sole possessor of her father's love, and him the object of her motherly
                    solicitude and care. In certain ways her
                    mother's death made a woman of Lissem, who was naturally mature for her
                    years. Roanoke said she was "a bo'n mothah from th ttime she
                    was a baby."
                Near the end of the same unlucky thirteenth year, a handsome stranger of perhaps
                    thirty came to the town of Blue River. No one knew anything about him, but the
                    fact that he was cultured, educated and citybred was evident even to our
                    rustics. He had little to say to anyone save the county school superintendent,
                    to whom he gave his name as Wyatt-though it was not. At the end of a week he
                    left town and was forgotten. 
                A woman's history is usually made by a man. Probably Lissem would have
                    had no history had not the fates and the county superintendent directed
                    Wyatt's steps to her door. He "took" the school she
                    attended and in due course of time--a very short 
                    course, probably-fell in love with her, as any man who was not a mummy was bound
                    to do whether he would or no. No blame to Wyatt. He couldn't help it,
                    not being a mummy in any sense of the word, but quite the reverse. 
                One Saturday morning in November, after taking formal possession of the
                    schoolhouse in which his work was to begin the following Monday, Wyatt set out
                    to find a boarding-place. He went to a house near by, which, as a part of
                    Lissem's fate, happened to be her home. Roanoke, to whom the law of
                    hospitality was an eleventh commandment, welcomed the handsome new teacher and
                    "toted" his luggage to the spare-room.
                At the time of Wyatt's arrival, Lissem was away from home and did not
                    return till after supper, when she found her father and the stranger sitting
                    before the  fire. As she entered the room she
                    glanced inquisitively toward Wyatt but as her father did not introduce her, she
                    took her accustomed rocking-chair at the corner of the fireplace where she sat,
                    hidden by the shadow, or illumined by the glow, as the fire shifted its flame. 
                Waytt had caught only a glimpse of the girl in the full light when she stooped to
                    kiss her father, but it gave him ample evidence of her beauty. A searching
                    analysis was unnecessary in Lissem's case. One who ran might see, and
                    if he were blind he must feel it, so potent was her charm. 
                The hide-and-seek game she played in the lights and shadows' was so
                    tantalizing to Wyatt that he caught himself watching her too intently when the
                    light was on. He tried to check this tendency, knowing that it was bad form to
                    stare at a young girl even in a log house, but he was unable entirely  to resist the call of her beauty, and in truth was
                    almost unconscious of his transgression. 
                Roanoke was as jealous of men, where Lissem was concerned, as any lover could
                    have been. He knew that up to this time she had never had a lover, nor had ever
                    looked upon a man as other than a mere male of the human family, but he also
                    knew that she hadnever before seen a man of Wyatt's class. So, when he
                    noticed the stranger's glances, jealousy rose up to do battle with
                    Kentucky hospitality, and he resolved first: that the new teacher should not
                    remain a permanent guest in his house, and second: that Lissem's
                    education was complete. 
                After the battle in Roanoke's heart had waged for half-an-hour, he said,
                    in a low voice:  "Lissem, I reckon
                    yo' bettah go to bed. It's late fo' child'en
                    to be up."
                "All right, Daddy," answered the girl, wholly unconscious of
                    the attention and jealousy she had aroused, and with a
                    "goodnight" which was intended to include the stranger, she
                    went up-stairs.
                As Lissem was leaving the room, Wyatt rose, by force of habit in such cases, and
                    by force of an irresistible attraction, involuntarily watched her till the door
                    was closed. Roanoke in turn watched Wyatt. Hospitality had been shamefully
                    overthrown, so when Wyatt sat down again, triumphant jealousy spoke with all the
                    restraint Roanoke could muster, which was not much.
                "Thought yo' was goin' to folio'
                    huh."
                "Why?" asked Wyatt in natural surprise. 
                
                "Yo' got up as if yo' war."
                "A gentleman usually rises when a lady leaves the room,"
                    answered Wyatt, instantly recognizing his host's jealousy. 
                "Lissem ain't no lady. She's a child,"
                    answered Roanoke in low tones. "Yo' must 'a'
                    thought huh pow'ful pretty, yo' watched huh so
                    clos'."
                "I did not know I was watching her," answered Wyatt, partly in
                    truth. "And if I did so offensively, I sincerely beg your
                    pardon."
                "That's all right," mumbled Roanoke sullenly. But
                    after a little respite, hospitality, though still somewhat groggy, got on its
                    feet again and made its devotee ashamed of himself. 
                In the wakeful hours of the night Roanoke's conscience smote him hip and
                    thigh, and he resolved that the sacred laws of hospitality should never again be
                    broken  by him because of the deplorable fact that
                    he was "a dem'd fool 'bout Lissem."
                Roanoke had chosen Roger Township as his home because it contained a small
                    settlement and a smaller church edifice devoted to the doctrines of the Southern
                    Methodist Episcopal church. For intensity of devotion and strenuousness of
                    brotherly love, give me every time a small, half-starved congregation belonging
                    to a sect hated by its neighbors and despised by the rest of the world, as this
                    church was at that time in the North. Such a faith is a thing to conjure with. 
                Earlier in the day Wyatt had noticed on the mantel shelf a book of discipline of
                    the S. M. E. Church, and he knew at once that he had discovered the straight
                    path to Roanoke's confidence and affection. 
                The next morning, after breakfast, Roanoke said to Wyatt: 
                
                "We-all go to chu'ch nigh all day on the Sabbath. Reckon
                    yo'-all wont get too lonesome loafin' 'round heah by
                    yo'se'f?"
                "May I not go with you?" asked Wyatt.
                "Yes," answered Roanoke hesitatingly, though pleased.
                    " But I reckon yo' won't ca'e much
                    fo' ouh chu'ch. Fine folks seldom does. What mought
                    yo' chu'ch be, now?"
                "I was brought up a Southern Methodist, but I'll like your
                    church whichever it is," answered Wyatt guilefully, though with the
                    single, kindly-hearted purpose of pleasing.
                "A Southe'n-" began Roanoke, greatly moved.
                    "Gawd fo'give me and bless yo'! We-all are
                    Southe'n Methodists, and I thought of cou'se you was an
                    outlander."
                Wyatt almost repented his guile.
                "Yo' was askin' yeste'day about
                    boa'd and lodgin'. Yo' have it right heah, my  deah suh, in my po' house, if
                    yo'll fo'get ouh homely ways fo' the sake of ouh good
                    will."
                Thus the fates, who had led Wyatt to Lissem's door, kept him under her
                    roof to his great good fortune, for Lissem, remember, was a mascot. Mascots,
                    however, do not necessarily bring good luck to themselves. Being women, they
                    often help others at their own cost. 
                As already stated, Wyatt fell in love with Lissem, though for a long time he kept
                    an honest grip on himself, knowing that her youth and lowly station as well as
                    certain matters in his own life, precluded courtship and brought all amorous
                    overtures on his part well within the category of things almost, if not quite,
                    criminal. 
                Lissem, being a child in heart, at first viewed Wyatt as she viewed all other
                    men, though she found him exceedingly attractive, 
                    and gradually discovered that his attractions grew apace with time. 
                Except when he went to church, Wyatt never wandered far from home, a fact which
                    would have aroused suspicion in a heart less simple than Roanoke's. He
                    helped with the farm work and the "chores," and, without
                    attempting to be anything, soon became everything in the humble household. 
                Lissem was an apt pupil and the good effect of Wyatt's teaching was
                    quickly manifest, especially in her English, though under certain conditions she
                    was still inclined to show traces of her father's idiom in her speech. 
                Well, two years after Wyatt's advent, Lissem took up the study of Latin,
                    and, being the only pupil in that branch, often remained "after
                    school" to recite. One day, while she and Wyatt were going over the  lesson-they had but one book and sat together
                    during recital-Wyatt, quite by accident and wholly without purpose, allowed his
                    arm to fall about her waist. Instantly Lissem grew pale and began to tremble.
                    His touch had awakened her womanhood and had opened her eyes in one luminous
                    instant to the true meaning of his ever increasing attractiveness. She seemed to
                    have been struck blind, to everything else, mentally and physically. The printed
                    words were a blur, and Wyatt's explanations were all fog. She could
                    feel only thrill upon thrill, and was conscious of nothing in all the universe
                    save that a Man had come into her life- the One Man in all the world. She knew
                    that she had never before lived, and whether to live meant joy or pain she could
                    not tell. But, be it either or both, life was welcome to her as the  spring sun to the greening fields, as the south
                    wind to the nesting bird. 
                "What is the trouble, my child?" asked Wyatt, observing her
                    pallor. "Are you sick?"
                "Yes," answered Lissem. "I want to go
                    home."
                After a week of neglected Latin, Lissem intimated somewhat shyly that she was
                    ready to take up her recitations again. When the other pupils had gone, Wyatt
                    took his place on the bench and Lissem sat down beside him, though at a little
                    distance. Her breathing was noticeably difficult; her nostrils dilated
                    exquisitely with every respiration; her eyes shone with a glow that was almost
                    red on their background of soft and melting brown; her clear, dark cheeks seemed
                    to be on fire and her lips appeared ready to burst with their blood. Wyatt had
                         hardly time to notice all this glorious
                    coloring till it changed to a pallor that frightened him. 
                "Lissem, are you ill again, my child?" he asked in deep
                    concern. "You must not remain if you are not feeling well. The Latin
                    can wait."
                "I'm not sick," she answered, recovering part of her
                    color; "and I want to tell you something." The color all came
                    back, then, in a flash and a flood. 
                "What do you want to tell me?" Wyatt asked. 
                After a long pause, she answered: "One thing I want to tell you is that
                    I'm not your child. I'm not a child at all. I'm a woman, inside and
                    out,"-a short pause and a rare smile-"especially
                    inside."
                "Since when?" asked Wyatt, laughing, though half-regretful that
                    the Latin had  been resumed, for he could not help
                    feeling that her beauty was more irresistible than it had been before. 
                "Since our last Latin lesson," answered the girl, hanging her
                    head. 
                "What had the last lesson to do with the change?" inquired
                    Wyatt, still greatly puzzled, for he had forgotten the incident of his arm and
                    the girl's waist, if, indeed, he had been conscious of it at the time. 
                "I wasn't sick then, either. I told a story when I said I
                    was."
                She looked into his face for a moment but flinched before his inquiring gaze, and
                    the long black lashes made two long black crescents on her cheeks. She was about
                    to continue and took a breath for the words, but halted before speech.
                "The mystery deepens," said Wyatt gently. "Tell me all
                    about it, Lissem."
                He did not know what was coming or  he would not
                    have invited her confidence. As already intimated, he was honest with the girl,
                    partly because he loved her better than he loved his own life, and partly
                    because he was the right sort of man and wanted to continue so. He fully
                    realized that his love was a constant menace to her and knowing her danger, was
                    forearmed to protect her. 
                "I'm not sure that I should tell you," she answered,
                    smiling and hanging her head. "Do-do you suppose I should?"
                    Then laughing softly: "I might tell you what it is, and then if you say
                    I must not tell you, why-I won't."
                "I don't know, Lissem," answered Wyatt, catching an
                    alarming hint of what she wanted to say. "You may trust me, I -I
                    believe. But,"-here he paused and took her hand, as he had done
                    hundreds of times before, "-it all depends. There  might be some things you should not tell me."
                She gripped his fingers tightly, drew a deep breath and answerd with a little cry
                    -the cry of the primitive, the voice of compelling Nature. 
                "Ah, that's it! That's it!" Her bosom rose
                    and sunk piteously, her breath came warm up to his face, and the escaping,
                    fluffy shreds of her hair brushed his cheek with an electric tingle. 
                "What, Lissem? Ah, my poor, sweet child, what is it?" he asked,
                    irresistibly driven by his love. Although frightened at what he saw the girl was
                    going to say and do, he could not muster the strength to check her. 
                "Ah, the thrill of your touch! I thought I knew what it was the other
                    day, but I wasn't sure, so I wanted to try it again. It was so new to
                    me. When you put your  arm about me I-I thought I
                    was going to faint or go to sleep, Mr. Wyatt. Never before did I know what it
                    meant, but I learned in an instant!" Suddenly she came close to him and
                    with a quick movement brought his arm about her waist. "There! There!
                    Ah, leave it there, Mr. Wyatt, while I tell you-while I ask you all about it.
                    What has come over me? I am all dazed and things seem unreal. A week ago I loved
                    Daddy better than anyone else. Now it's changed and there is but one
                    man in all the world. I'm sure I've turned bad, Mr. Wyatt, and
                    I'm afraid you'll hate me when I tell you that I just know I
                    should not grieve enough if Daddy were to die so long as-if I could have
                    you-you-always. Now, now, you know. Ah, don't despise me. I had to tell
                    you. Had you been any other man I could not have done this to save my life. But
                    you are you and I was  driven to tell you. It
                    seemed that I had to do it to save my life!"
                Wyatt was helpless. Her love seemed to pervade the entire span of his life and to
                    condense all the years into one little mo- ment of ecstasy. Wyatt, as I have
                    said, was not a mummy. And a veil is the only proper treatment of the ensuing
                    scene. 
                It was a bad scene, however, for of the man, and he released the girl from his
                    embrace. When he did so her form grew limp, her head fell back on the bend of
                    his elbow and her eyes closed as if in sleep. She lay for a moment, her face
                    lighted by a dim smile, then she opened her eyes and the manhood that was in him
                    spoke: 
                "You must go home, Lissem, and-and hereafter you may recite Latin during
                    school hours."
                
                "Then I'll drop Latin," she answered. "And
                    I'm not going home just yet."
                She laughed nervously, but there was spontaneous determination in her words.
                    Wyatt's good resolutions had not been spontaneous. One might almost
                    call them artificial, for they had been summoned by an effort of his will and
                    were shamefully reluctant to remain. So he did the best he could and sat in
                    passive, troubled joy. 
                After a little time, Lissem looked up to him, tried to speak, but failed; looked
                    again, tried again and-succeeded: 
                "Perhaps we had l better not tell Daddy yet awhile?"
                Love's running mate, cunning, had also entered her heart. 
                "No," answered Wyatt. "You are only sixteen,
                    and-"
                "Going on seventeen," interrupted Lissem,  proudly. Sixteen was infantile. "Going on
                    seventeen" was womanly. 
                "When you are eighteen, I'll ask your father to give you to me,
                    and-"
                "Oh, that will be nearly two years," again interrupted the girl
                    complainingly. 
                "Yes," continued Wyatt, almost inaudibly.
                    "And-you-shall-be-my wife if-if-it is possible. My wife! Ah, girl, I
                    dare not hope for happiness so great." And then, of course, more or
                    less of a demonstration inevitably followed. 
                "Yes, you dare hope," she answered softly. "Daddy or
                    no Daddy, I'll be yours whenever you ask for me. I have no shame, have
                    I?"
                And the recital of the first conjugation occupied them till dark began to fall. 
                After a very short long time, Wyatt, who had been honestly abstemious, insisted
                    that  Lissem should go home and give him time to
                    sweep out the school-room before dark. As she started toward the door she turned
                    and asked him shyly, half saucily, all longingly: "Do-do you suppose
                    I'd go to sleep again if-if--" 
                No, she would not go to sleep, nor did she. Then Wyatt swept out the schoolhouse,
                    all unconscious of dust or broom, for he was thinking of his great joy and his
                    greater pain.
                And the evening and the morning were their first day!
                Of course, not being a wizard, I don't know all that happened during the
                    next year or two, but I believe that Wyatt acted the man and that his love of
                    the girl was as honest as it was deep. He seldom allowed himself the joy of
                    being alone with her, a  bit of honesty which, to
                    tell the truth, Lissem did not always appreciate at its full value. 
                When Lissem was "going on eighteen," she began to drop shy
                    little hints about Daddy and the future, though what she said was modest and
                    above all was fraught with entire trust in Wyatt's superior knowledge
                    of what was best to be done or to be left undone. She was very happy and at
                    least partly content to live in the sun of his presence and to drink in the air
                    he breathed. Air? Nothing of the sort! It was an elixir! 
                But Wyatt, who had grown thin and seemed to be in ill health-due to malaria, he
                    said-told Lissem with truth that was all too true, that it was better to defer
                    speaking to "Daddy" for another year, and Lissem, with a smile
                    and a sigh, was sure that he was right. 
                
                It was early in the second year of Lissem's waiting that the oil
                    excitement of the Middle West sprang up. Stories of poor farmers who had become
                    rich, all in a night as it were, floated about the country, and at last reached
                    Lissem in her "outlying" township. Hearing so much about oil
                    it was natural for her to dream about it and Lissem, you know, believed firmly
                    in the pro- phetic quality of dreams. 
                One day Roanoke and his daughter came to my office. I was delighted to see them,
                    for to tell the truth, I was mad about the girl's beauty. To see her
                    was like feasting one's eyes on a great masterpiece of art.
                After discussing crops and family health, Roanoke said: "Lissem has
                    something to say to yo'. She's b'en
                    pesterin' me fo' mo'n six months and now
                    I've brought her in to pester yo'-all."
                
                "She can't pester me too much," I rejoined, wasting a
                    rare Blackstone-Kent- Story smile on the all unconscious girl. Apollo himself
                    might have smiled in vain; she would not have seen. What was Apollo to Lissem or
                    Lissem to Apollo? The god Wyatt was temporarily on earth! 
                "It is this way," she began, smoothing out her skirts a bit
                    nervously. "Nearly six months ago I dreamed that we sunk a deep well on
                    our farm over by the creek, you know, and that we struck oil. You-all
                    don't believe in dreams, I suppose, but-" Here there was a
                    little smile of charity "-a man can't know everything even if
                    he is a lawyer."
                "True, true," I answered, "but I do believe in
                    dreams-and in witches, too."
                Another surprised little smile came to her face-just enough to show a gleam of
                    ex-  quisite pearls set in coral, you understand
                    -as she answered:
                "I'm glad to hear you say so. It shows that you have
                    imagination, and no matter how wise one may be, if one hasn't
                    imagination there are many things one can't un- derstand. Well, I want
                    Daddy to borrow six hundred dollars and sink a deep well. You know we have a
                    mortgage now and he doesn't like to put another on the place, but I say
                    we'll lift them both and to spare if he ventures the second. What do
                    you think?"
                "I think I should try it," I answered. So I put them in the way
                    to borrow the money and Lissem proved a true prophet, for shortly after her
                    eighteenth birthday Roanoke Brooks struck oil and soon was a rich man along with
                    many of his neighbors. Roger Township was no longer
                    "outlying"; Lissem had brought it within the pale.  Then it was that Wyatt crowned her "
                    Sweet Alyssum, the Oil Queen of Roger Township.
                Wealth made little change in Roanoke and his surroundings and, as he told me in
                    speaking of Lissem, "It didn't stick huh up a bit that anyone
                    could notice." A few comforts and luxuries were added, but Roanoke,
                    Lissem and Wyatt continued to live modestly, cozily and oh! so happily in the
                    big log house under the drippings of a new S. M. E. sanctuary built of oil, as
                    many another sanctuary has been built since-oil being a potent means of grace
                    nowadays. 
                Wyatt could have changed all this modest way of life by a word to Lissem, for now
                    she was truly the Oil Queen and her word was law in the household, but he
                    opposed rather than encouraged innovations. 
                "I never saw a marble hall such as the gipsy girl dreamed and sung
                    about," said Lissem one evening, while
                    sitting on the edge of the porch with Wyatt, "but I wouldn't
                    exchange this old log house for a jasper palace so long as you are content to
                    remain. If you wanted to live in a balloon-" she paused, laughed softly
                    and took his hand-"why a balloon would be my choice." Another
                    long pause followed, during which she pressed his hand to her heart and sighed
                    gently three or four times. Then the long lashes fell and the dark cheeks took a
                    rosier hue as she continued almost inaudibly: "I'm past
                    eighteen now-going on nineteen and that's pretty old."
                After a moment's internal struggle, Wyatt gently withdrew his hand from
                    her clasp, rose, stooped over her and imprinted a kiss on her forehead. Then
                    without a word he left her sitting in the dark and fairly ran to his room. The
                    night was one of struggle and anguish for poor Wyatt, but  the battle was hopeless, for his mighty antagonist was love. 
                The next evening after dark, much to Lissem's joy and surprise, Wyatt
                    asked her to walk down the road a short way with him, and when they returned
                    they went straight to Daddy. 
                "My Gawd!" exclaimed Roanoke, and lapsed into silence. 
                It looked ominous, but Lissem knelt beside her father's chair and said
                    pleadingly, though not with exact truth: "Daddy, I'll not
                    marry Mr. Wyatt if you object, for we can go on living happily just as we are,
                    but I know God has sent him to me and I'm afraid I should die if I were
                    to lose him. I'm getting pretty old, you know, Daddy-almost nineteen.
                    You don't want me to be an old maid, Daddy, and never know the joy you
                    and mother knew when I was born, do you, Daddy?"
                
                Tears came to the old man's eyes as he answered: "I knew it
                    would come to this. I find no fault with Mr. Wyatt. He's all I could
                    ask a man to be-honest, upright and a Southe'n Methodist, but
                    he'll take yo' away from me, and then I'll die." Here he broke down and covered his face
                    with his hands. 
                "No, he won't, Daddy," pleaded Lissem. "Will
                    you, Mr. Wyatt?"
                "Never, never," answered Wyatt, placing his hand on the old
                    man's shoulder.
                After a long minute of burrowing pain, Roanoke took Wyatt's hand, paused
                    to gain strength for the final effort, slowly brought Lissem's hand
                    from around his neck and joined the two in holy clasp over his aching heart.
                    And, as it was in the beginning and ever shall be, Age gave its all to Youth and
                    groaned and gloried in its own sorrow. 
                One day while driving past Roanoke's  house
                    I stopped and experienced a distinct shock of jealousy when he told me that Lis-
                    sem had left home a fortnight before to be married, and was expected back that
                    evening with her husband. 
                "Who is the lucky man?" I asked. 
                "His name is Wyatt," answered Roanoke. "He's
                    a mighty fine gentleman. I reckon you-all don't know him. He's
                    our school teacher-b'en livin' heah with us nigh on to five
                    yeah and hasn't been a mile from the house in all that
                    time."
                I did not remember the name nor the man, but when I stopped on my way home that
                    evening I was rendered almost speechless on recognizing the stranger who had
                    spent a week in Blue River four or five years S before. 
                I stayed for supper and while driving home that night I could not help saying to
                    myself: "Poor Lissem! Poor Lissem!"  though I could have given no reason for my forebodings, as Wyatt
                    had made a good impression. 
                There is always a beaten path to gold, so Roger Township soon had many visitors,
                    brought there by Lissem's dream. As has been intimated, however, a
                    mascot does not always bring good luck to herself. 
                Nearly two years after Lissem's marriage I again saw Wyatt. He came to
                    my office in the custody of the sheriff and asked for a private interview. I
                    took him to my back room and offered him a chair. Poor devil! I pitied hirm. but
                    nmy heart as sorest for Sweet Alyssum. 
                "W hat can I do for you?" I asked.
                "I have been arrested." he answered, leaning his elbows on his
                    knees and burying his face in his hands.
                "On what charge?" I inquired.
                "Bigamy," he replied hoarsely. 
                
                "That's only a penitentiary offense," I retorted.
                    "You ought to be hung!"
                "I know it," he replied. "Do you want to hear my case,
                    or shall I go elsewhere?"
                "I'll hear you," I answered, after a moment's
                    consideration. 
                He waited fully three minutes and began: "My name is not Wyatt. It is
                    Garlan. I was cashier of a New York bank. A hundred thousand dollars were lost
                    through no criminal fault of mine, for I lost my entire fortune in the same
                    investment. I was sentenced to Sing Sing. I escaped and in an unlucky hour came
                    here. While in the Tombs in New York I was served with notice of divorce
                    proceedings instituted by my wife. When I married Lissem I thought-I thought I
                    was divorced. I was wrong."
                "Ah, that changes the case!" I responded joyfully. "If
                    you had good reason to be  lieve that your wife had
                    procured a divorce, it is at least a palliating circumstance."
                After a long silence he continued: "I lied when I said that I believed
                    my wife had obtained a divorce. A few days after my escape I saw in a New York
                    paper that the case was about to be dismissed. I was madly in love with Lissem.
                    I fought desperately for five years. I tried to turn away, but she clung to me
                    so piteously, and then the time came when I could not leave her. I thought I
                    could remain hidden by her side all the rest of my days. You know Lissem and can
                    judge of my temptation. But the oil drew visitors. I was recognized by one of
                    them and here I am. A pitiful story of man's weakness! What contempt a
                    lawyer must have for humanity!"
                "You are honestly married to Lissem?" I asked. 
                "Yes, it was all regular. I am not bad 
                    enough to have had it otherwise. Lissem has the certificate all blurred by her
                    kisses," he answered, turning his face from me for a moment. 
                "You are not so much to blame as one might-suppose," I
                    answered. "I'l procure bail for you and then we'll
                    prepare for the defense."
                "If we defeat this charge, there is the old sentence in New
                    York!" he said gloomily. "I see no way of escape. I understand
                    that representatives of the bank are here now arranging for
                    extradition."
                "They can't extradite you so long as this charge is
                    pending," I suggested. "We'll take one at a
                    time."
                Early that afternoon Wyatt was at liberty on bail, and it was arranged that I
                    should go at once and undertake the awful task of telling Lissem and Roanoke,
                    who knew of the arrest but not of the nature of 
                    the charge. Wyatt wanted to go with me, but at my suggestion consented to follow
                    in a short time. 
                When I reached the big log house I found Roanoke on the porch in a rustic
                    armchair, and Lissem sitting on the lowest of the three front steps holding a
                    sweet little copy of herself, perhaps a year old. The baby was cooing in the
                    sunlight, but the mother was ' weeping gently in the deep shadow of her
                    grief. Roanoke, too, though usually immovable, was almost overwhelmed by his
                    distress.
                When Lissem saw me she came running down the path, having almost tossed the baby
                    to the sod, where it lay smiling and cooing in sweet forgiveness of its
                    unnatural mother. Lissem, though outwardly calm, was almost wild with grief, and
                    even the child was forgotten in her anxiety for its father.
                
                "What is the matter?" she cried. "Why did the sheriff
                    take him?"
                A bad story is better told quickly, so I said: "Mr. Wyatt has been
                    arrested on a charge of bigamy--another wife in New York. He's out on
                    bail and will be here soon."
                Lissem turned and resumed her seat on the step, lifting her baby from the ground
                    as she did so. Roanoke rose, looked at me for a moment, went into the house and
                    presently returned with his old long-barreled rifle, which he leaned against the
                    porch post. 
                "Now, I'm ready to heah it all," said he, calmly
                    resuming his chair. 
                "I have told you all," I answered. "He has another
                    wife in New York and will probably go to prison for having married
                    Lissem."
                
                Lissem looked up quickly at me, then back to the baby. 
                "He'll nevah go to prison," remarked Roanoke, glancing
                    towards his rifle. 
                A long silence ensued, Lissem watching her baby, and kissing it softly now and
                    then as it cooed and smiled up into her face, all unconscious of the awful part
                    it was soon to play.
                Presently Lissem asked in her soft tones: "Will they send him to prison
                    because he married me?"
                "Yes," I answered. "There would be no crime if he had
                    not married you."
                "Oh," murmured the girl, deep in thought. There were no tears
                    now, no evidence of grief. She was thinking, and automatically kissing baby
                    every few seconds. 
                I could think of nothing to say, so I waited for her to speak. I was standing  in front of her with my back to the road. Suddenly
                    I noticed her looking toward the gate. I turned and saw Boles, the
                    State's Attorney, coming up the path. I introduced him and explained
                    that he was the man who would prosecute Wyatt. Roanoke invited him to the porch
                    and gave him a chair. Lissem did not look at Boles, but remained seated on the
                    steps, kissing her baby and thinking, thinking, thinking. 
                 After a few words about the weather, Boles drew a notebook from his pocket and
                    addressed Lissem: 
                "Mrs. Wyatt, you probably know why Mr. Wyatt has been
                    arrested?"
                "Yes," she murmured, without looking up. 
                "Well, I'd like to ask you a few questions preparatory to
                    prosecution." No response from Lissem, so Boles continued: "Tell me, please, when and where you were
                    married to Mr. Wyatt."
                A long pause. Lissem's eyes were cast down, intently watching the baby. 
                "I never was married to him at all," she answered, lifting her
                    eyes and looking Boles straight in the face, without a quiver of hesitancy. 
                At her reply Roanoke sprang from his N chair and his eyes fairly burned as he
                    gazed at his daughter. A long silence ensued. Lissem's statement had
                    dumfounded the prosecutor as well as her father, though it had not so greatly
                    surprised me. It was the sort of thing I knew she could do. 
                After Roanoke had gazed at Lissem perhaps a minute, I noticed him look towards
                    the road, straighten up and reach for the rifle. I turned and saw Wyatt hitching
                    his horse. 
                
                "Go stop him," whispered Lissem, glancing up at me. 
                I hurried down the path and met Wyatt at the gate.
                "Don't come in," I whispered, "Roanoke will
                    shoot you." "I don't care," he returned,
                    evidently meaning just what he said. "How does Lissem take it? Does she
                    hate me?"
                "No, she could not hate you if she were to try, and she doesn't
                    want to try. She seems to be stunned, but she has shown no emotion of any sort
                    except a cry or two when I first came. She just now told the prose- cutor that
                    she was never married to you."
                "She did it to save me," he replied, half choked by emotion.
                    "God made but one of the sort and gave her to me. We were married truly
                    enough. She has the certificate. I'll soon put her right with the world
                    on that score."
                
                "If you want to consider her happiness and your own welfare, take my
                    advice and allow her statement to stand, at least for a time," I
                    suggested.
                He did not reply, but passed me and started toward the house. Roanoke stood on
                    the porch with his gun half lifted. Lissem remained seated on the lowest step,
                    holding the baby and watching Wyatt. Roanoke, being above and behind her, she
                    did not see him. When Wyatt passed me I was sure he would never reach the house
                    alive, so I rn ahead of him hoping to pacify Roanoke. When I was within ten feet
                    of the porch, I heard Wyatt, who was perhaps twenty feet behind me, cry out:
                "Fire, Father Brooks! Don't hesitate!"
                Lissem turned quickly and saw that her father had his gun to his shoulder. She
                    tried to place herself between the gun and Wyatt, but her father being above
                    her, she  was not tall enough. The whole terrible
                    incident occupied only a few seconds, but even at this distance of time it seems
                    that I stood for hours in agony. When Lissem saw that she could not interpose
                    her own body and receive the bullet intended for Wyatt, without an
                    instant's hesitation, she held her baby above her head and thrust the
                    little body before the muzzle of her father's rifle. A look of terror,
                    such as I had never seen on the human countenance, came to Roanoke's
                    face. His great love for Lissem had been intensified to worship of the baby. I
                    closed my eyes and heard the sharp crack of the rifle. 
                Lissem, whose head was bent down between her arms so that she could not see,
                    stood for perhaps five seconds holding up the baby; then, without looking at it,
                    she quickly placed it on the sod, turned to Wyatt, who, by that time, was behind
                    her, and with  a cry that I shall never forget,
                    threw her arms about his neck, drew his face down to her's and kissed
                    his lips in an ecstasy of love, such as I, in my poor ignorance of woman- kind,
                    had never before dreamed was possible. 
                The rifle fell from Roanoke's hand to the ground. He stood for a moment
                    dazed, then started down the steps toward Lissem and Wyatt. I thought he was
                    going to attack him, so I interposed, saying: 
                "No, you don't, Brooks! You'll whip me first
                    !"
                "Gawd! I don't want to whip nobody," he answered
                    faintly, tears falling unheeded over his' cheeks, "I jest want
                    my li'l ge'l."
                 I saw that his anger had vanished, so I allowed him to proceed. He put his hand
                    gently on Lissem's shoulder and spoke her name in tones of love and
                    fear and tenderness that brought tears to my eyes. I  noticed that Boles, too, had his handkerchief out. 
                With her arms still about Wyatt's neck, Lissem turned her face to her
                    father. 
                "Don't touch me," she said quietly, "or you
                    will make me want to kill you."
                Roanoke turned and sat down on the steps, covering his face with his hands. 
                "Go to your father and ask him to forgive you," said Wyatt,
                    gently, but with a note of command.
                "He would have killed you. He did kill my baby," she
                    wailed.
                "No, he did not," said Wyatt. "I saw him lift his
                    gun."
                And just then a plaintive little cry, half coo, half scolding, came from the baby
                    on the grass. 
                Instantly Lissem sprang from Wyatt's arms, knelt beside the baby,
                    snatched it from the ground, and in less time than you  could count three, tore off its clothing and examined the little
                    body from head to heels. When she found that it was unhurt she pressed it to her
                    breast and began to kiss it, gently, softly, as a mother bird feeds its young. 
                After a minute or two Roanoke went to Lissem, still kneeling on the ground, and
                    spoke to her pleadingly: 
                "My Gawd, child! Do yo' love the man like that? Mo'
                    than the baby?"
                "A thousand times," she answered without lifting her head.
                "Come into the house, Mr. Wyatt," said Roanoke.
                    "We'll stand by you, right or wrong. When a woman loves a man
                    that-a-way, she sanctifies him."
                "Ah, Daddy, forgive me," cried Lissem, looking up to Roanoke,
                    whereupon he fell to his knees beside her and folded mother and baby in his
                    mighty love.
                
                Boles, who had been standing on the porch, took me to one side. There were tears
                    in his eyes as he spoke. "Look here, Howard!" he said,
                    "I'm not going to prosecute this case. To tell you the truth,
                    the charge of bigamy was made only for the purpose of holding Wyatt until
                    extradition papers could be procured to take him back to New York where he was
                    convicted several years ago for looting a bank. Representatives of the New York
                    bank are in Blue River now. It seems that they had reason to believe that Wyatt
                    did not know his wife had obtained a divorce and it is my opinion that if the
                    money lost, which was only a hundred thousand dollars or such a matter, were
                    paid back, the whole thing would be dropped. I believe it is all a scheme to
                    collect the money from Brooks, who is able to pay it. Wyatt's New York
                    wife obtained a divorce shortly after his 
                    conviction, so there would have been no bigamy even had he married this
                    girl."
                Then I went crazy and began to shout. I was so excited that I couldn't
                    tell Lissem, Brooks and Wyatt, so Boles told them.
                "Pay it? Gawd! Of course we'll pay it, if it takes ouh last
                    cent, won't we, Lissem?" said Roanoke.
                "Yes, Daddy," softly answered Lissem, rising and going to the
                    top step of the porch, where she sat down, still hugging the naked baby to her
                    breast.
                "Yo' tell the New Yawk men I'll be in town to-night
                    and pay them every dollah," said Roanoke. "Thank Gawd
                    fo' the oil an' Lissem's dream!"
                "To-morrow will be soon enough," answered Boles.
                After talking a moment longer, we said "good-day" and started
                    down the path. When half way to the gate we turned to  wave a last farewell and saw Lissem sitting on the top step of the
                    porch, the whole scene bathed in the radiance of her joy. She was dressing the
                    baby, while Roanoke and Wyatt sat on either side watching her, each with an arm
                    about her.
                "Wait a moment, I have something to say to them," said Boles,
                    turning to me.
                We went back to the porch and Boles spoke to Wyatt: "The only condition
                    I make in promising not to prosecute you is that you shall marry this girl at
                    once."
                We all looked toward Lissem. She smiled up to Boles, as if pitying one so
                    gullible, and spoke for Wyatt:
                "Lawd! Don't you-all worry you'se'f about
                    that, Mr. Boles. We-all were married true enough in Cincinnati."
                "Well-I'll-be-damned!" said Boles.
                THE END
            
        
    
