
        ----CITATION---- 
        Howe, E. W. (Edgar Watson),
                                          1853-1937. The Anthology of Another Town: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3898
        ----FULL TEXT----
        
              
                     
                     
                             VENTURES IN COMMON SENSE
                            
                                   BY E. W. HOWE
                            
                            
                                   With an Introduction by H. L. Mencken
                            
                            "A man thoroughly American, . . . he yet manages to get the
                                   method of the free spirit into his study of the phenomena that
                                   lie about him, and even into his examination of the thing that he
                                   is himself. In him is the rare quality of honesty--a quality, in
                                   fact, so seldom encountered in American writing that it would be
                                   stretching the truth but little to say that it is never
                                   encountered at all."--H. L.
                                   Mencken.*
                            
                                   $1.75 at all bookshops
                            
                            ALFRED A. KNOPF  220 WEST FORTY-SECOND STREET NEW YORK
                            
                     
                     
                     
                            
                                   THE ANTHOLOGY OF ANOTHER TOWN
                            
                            By E. W. Howe
                            
                            
                            
                                   NEW YORK
                                   ALFRED A. KNOPF
                                   1920
                            
                     
                     
                     
                            COPYRIGHT, 1920, BY ALFRED A. KNOPF, INC.
                            PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                     
                     
                     
                            CONTENTS
                            
                                   Doctor Gilkerson, 11
                                   Jim and Dan Ayres, 21 
                                   George Coulter, 23 
                                   Sammy Hemingway, 32 
                                   Davis Straight, 39 
                                   Sam Harris, 44 
                                   Bart Wherry, 47 
                                   Pilson Blair, 49 
                                   Ben Barton, 50 
                                   Lige Banta, 54 
                                   Mary Mason, 58 
                                   Uncle Jimmy Haskins, 60 
                                   Gus Sanderson, 62 
                                   Tom Harrison, 63 
                                   Judge Terry, 64 
                                    The Wittwer Boys, 65 
                                   Aunt Mahala, 68 
                                   Marie Taylor, 70 
                                   Bill Hall, 72 
                                   John Davis, 74 
                                   
                                   Hon. Martin Holbrook, 75 
                                   Ans Whitcomb, 76 
                                   Mart Towne, 78 
                                   Sarah Brownell, 79 
                                   Tom Marsh, 80 
                                   Jim Searles, 81 
                                   Sandy McPherson, 83 
                                   Joe Bush, 84 
                                   Cleve Hunt, 86 
                                   Michael Rafferty, 87 
                                   Joe Wells, 88 
                                   Tom Harper, 89 
                                   Asberry Morton, 90 
                                   Ben Bradford, 99 
                                   Pete Robidoux, 100 
                                   Bill Harmon, 103 
                                   Doc Robinson, 106 
                                   Jim Shields, 107 
                                   Ben Thompson, 108 
                                   Jerry Shackelford, 109 
                                   Cap. Hansen, 111 
                                   Henry Wulfburger, 113 
                                   George Pendleton, 114 
                                   Colonel Andy Miller, 116 
                                   Bud Moffett, 121 
                                   
                                   Milt Sayer, 122 
                                   Walt Williams, 128 
                                   Belle Davison, 129 
                                   Andrew Hackbarth, 130 
                                   Joe Stevens, 133 
                                   Gladys Hart, 136 
                                   Mrs. Joe Buey, 139 
                                   John Davis, 141 
                                   Taylor Ward, 142 
                                   Mary Ransom, 143 
                                   Charley Grover, 144 
                                   Thomas Lane Montgomery, 149 
                                   Old George Bennett, 150 
                                   Glen Barker, 152 
                                   Harvey King, 154 
                                   Vic Walker, 156 
                                   George Coleman, 157 
                                   Joe Ward, 158 
                                   Emanuel Strong, 160 
                                   Ed. Marsh, 161 
                                   Mrs. Mark Thompson, 162 
                                   W. T. Hawley, 163 
                                   Lawyer Bailey, 164 
                                   George Lawrence, 165 
                                   Mrs. John Hart, 166 
                                   
                                   George Hart, 167
                                   Old Mr. Neal, 168 
                                   Bill Alvord, 169 
                                   Martha Wendell, 170 
                                   Chris Halleck, 171 
                                   Joe Allen, 172 
                            
                     
              
              
              
                     
                            THE ANTHOLOGY OF ANOTHER TOWN
                            
                            
                                   DOCTOR GILKERSON
                                   When I was a little boy, living on a farm, my father returned
                                          one evening from the county town where he had been several
                                          days, and announced that he had bought the weekly paper
                                          printed there. I had no idea what a printing office was
                                          like, but soon had opportunity to find out, for the next
                                          morning I was taken to town, and turned over to the
                                          foreman, who was told to make a printer of me.
                                   The man who taught me the trade was an old-fashioned printer
                                          named Martin, who had a bed in the office, and who wrote
                                          stories for the New York Mercury, played
                                          the guitar, sang ballads, and took part in amateur
                                          theatricals.
                                   My brother Jim worked with me, and we worshipped Mr. Martin.
                                          He gave us little suppers in the office at night, when we
                                          had rare things to eat we had heard of, but never hoped to
                                          taste; including cove oysters with little round crackers,
                                          instead of the big square kind. At the conclusion of these
                                          suppers, Mr. Martin told us stories. Usually we became so
                                          sleepy that he was compelled to drag us into his bed, and
                                          spend the night himself on a pallet on the floor.
                                   Among other things this wonderful man told us about was the circus; he had seen
                                          one, although there had never been one in the town where
                                          we lived. But one day, after Mr. Martin had gone away for
                                          good, and Jim and I were doing the mechanical work on the
                                          paper with the assistance of the editor, the advance agent
                                          of a circus came to town in a wagon; in those days
                                          circuses travelled overland, there being few railroads,
                                          and none at all in our section.
                                   We were tremendously excited, as Mr. Martin had said printers
                                          always received free tickets. Much to our dismay, however,
                                          father had a quarrel with the agent. Father was a
                                          preacher, and said circuses were immoral; therefore no
                                          picture of an elephant should appear in his paper. What
                                          was more, he said he would use his influence to keep
                                          people away from the circus man's demoralizing
                                          exhibition.
                                   It was a terrible blow, but father kept his word: he attacked
                                          the circus with as much violence as he attacked the
                                          institution of slavery, a question then prominent. So Jim
                                          and I looked at the bills, and wondered if we should be
                                          able to see the show.
                                   When circus day arrived, father told us we were to work all
                                          day, and not see the crowds, or the parade. The attack of
                                          the editor on the circus did not do it any harm; indeed,
                                          early on the morning of circus day, the town was crowded
                                          with country people from many miles around. And every
                                          farmer who came into the printing office to pay his
                                          subscription, made jokes with
                                          the editor, who was somewhat surly because his good advice
                                          had not been taken. It was the town's first
                                          circus, and we soon discovered that it was also the
                                          town's greatest crowd. Teams began arriving in
                                          the vacant lot back of the printing office at an early
                                          hour; the horses were hurriedly unhitched, and the owners
                                          went away to see and mingle in the excitement. In the
                                          front office the editor was having an uncomfortable time
                                          with farmers who thought it a great joke on the paper that
                                          its abuse of the circus ihad brought an enormous
                                          crowd.
                                   While the editor was arguing angrily with a number of men
                                          about the iniquity of the circus, and the men were
                                          laughing merrily, I told Jim I intended to make a sneak,
                                          and see the circus, if I died for it. Jim was a good boy,
                                          and warned me not to, but when he saw I was determined, he
                                          accompanied me in the wild run we made for liberty.
                                   When we reached the street, we found the circus had not yet
                                          arrived, so we set out with a number of other boys to meet
                                          it. We knew it was to come in on The Falls road; every boy
                                          knew that, somehow, so we travelled that way until we
                                          became suspicious, and turned back. Reaching town, tired
                                          and hungry, we found the circus had arrived by another
                                          road, and that the parade, and the afternoon performance,
                                          were over.
                                   We were hungry, but didn't dare go home, so we hunted up a woman we had
                                          known in the country, and she gave us something to eat.
                                          Then we started out to borrow money with which to attend
                                          the evening performance. But we didn't make any
                                          progress, so when the band struck up for the night show,
                                          we decided to crawl under the tent. It seemed easy, and I
                                          was about in when a man caught me by the heels, and pulled
                                          me out. While the circus man was cuffing me, I saw another
                                          circus man cuffing Jim, about twenty feet away; he had
                                          also failed.
                                   Then we met a man named McCurry, a member of my
                                          father's church; a good man who did not intend to
                                          witness the wicked performance, but who was nevertheless
                                          walking around outside, to see the crowds, and hear the
                                          band. We appealed to him; we said we had run off, and
                                          would get a whipping, but that it would be terrible to get
                                          a beating, and not see the performance.
                                   Mr. McCurry looked around, to see no one was watching, and
                                          said: "Well, I don't want your father to
                                          know it, but I'll loan you the
                                          money."
                                   A few minutes later we were on the inside of the palace of
                                          pleasure, whistling with the other boys, and demanding
                                          that the circus men appear, for the performance had not
                                          yet commenced. But when it did begin, it was all we
                                          expected, and more. It was Miles Orton's circus, I remember, and the clown
                                          was a merry fellow called Doctor Gilkerson.
                                   Delight succeeded delight for an hour, when the proceedings
                                          were interrupted by drunken man. We didn't know
                                          him; there was only one drunkard, Fin Wilkerson, in our
                                          neighbourhood. We supposed the new drunkard had wandered
                                          into town from some other neighbourhood, owing to the
                                          circus, and were in sympathy with the ring master, who
                                          attempted to throw the man out. But the man
                                          wouldn't be thrown out, and seemed determined to
                                          make trouble. He said he had known the clown, Doctor
                                          Gilkerson, when they were boys, and wanted to talk to
                                          him.
                                   About this time Doctor Gilkerson came in, and said he
                                          didn't know the dissipated man. But the man
                                          insisted, and finally they patched up an acquaintance. We
                                          were disposed at first to be annoyed by the interruption
                                          of the stranger, but when Doctor Gilkerson shook hands
                                          with him, and threw him head over heels, we roared with
                                          laughter.
                                   It seemed Doctor Gilkerson had known the fellow very well;
                                          they had gone to school. together as boys, somewhere, and
                                          after they had talked awhile, Doctor Gilkerson asked:
                                          "By-the-way, what has become of old Howe, who
                                          used to teach school down there?"
                                   "Why," replied the drunken man,
                                          "don't you know? He's running a
                                          newspaper about the size of a
                                          postage stamp here, and has become so good that he
                                          won't print circus advertisements."
                                   It was the first joke on a citizen ever heard in a show in the
                                          town, and the people almost suffocated with merriment,
                                          they were so pleased. The show was brought to a standstill
                                          by the merriment of the people over the joke on the
                                          editor, and Jim and I were amused, too; we were getting
                                          something to offset the whipping we expected later.
                                   At last the people were satisfied with the joke on the editor,
                                          and we thought the performance would be resumed. But the
                                          clown's friend still insisted on being sociable
                                          with the show people, and there were cries of
                                          "Put him out!" But the man
                                          wouldn't go out, and wanted to ride a horse that
                                          stood in the ring. I had been thinking I could ride it, as
                                          the horse had a big flat pad on its back. Doctor Gilkerson
                                          was in favour of letting the intruder ride, but the ring
                                          master said he would kill himself.
                                   "All right," said the merry man,
                                          "let him kill himself. That's a good way
                                          to get rid of him."
                                   It was finally agreed to let the stranger try, and away went
                                          the horse and the band, with the drunken man on the
                                          horse's back. It was tremendously exciting; the
                                          man reeled and staggered a good deal, and the people in
                                          the audience were mightily pleased that a man from the
                                          country, and drunk at that, could do it.
                                   
                                   Then the man managed to stand on his feet, and take off his
                                          coat. This was exciting; but a dreadful thing happened at
                                          that time: the man being intoxicated, and not knowing what
                                          he was doing, began taking off his pants! Much to my
                                          surprise, the circus men did not stop him, and before we
                                          all died of mortification, the man got his pants off, and
                                          turned out to be a circus rider in tights.
                                   We felt mighty cheap when we realized we had been beautifully
                                          fooled, but we enjoyed that, along with the joke on the
                                          editor, and everybody had a good time.
                                   But at last the show was over, and Jim and I hung around an
                                          hour or more, dreading to go home; we knew what was coming
                                          to us. There was a sideshow, and the barker was busy while
                                          the main tent was being torn down. I wanted to see the
                                          sideshow, but had no money, and finally thought of a
                                          scheme: I had heard that if a printer displayed his rule
                                          to the doorkeeper of a show, the doorkeeper would let him
                                          in free. I tried it, and the doorkeeper in an amused way,
                                          looked at me, laughed, and said:
                                   "Well, it's all right! Go on
                                          in!"
                                   Probably he had been a printer's devil himself;
                                          anyway, he let me in. He tried to stop Jim, who
                                          hadn't his rule with him, but I said:
                                   "That's all right; he has one, but left it
                                          at home."
                                   
                                   So Jim got in free, too, and I felt mighty important. The
                                          sideshow didn't amount to much; it was nothing
                                          more than a lot of stereopticon views of the war, then
                                          going on, and we were soon confronted with the necessity
                                          of going home, and taking our whipping. On the way, I got
                                          into a row with a boy belonging to the circus, and he
                                          pushed me, and I pushed as hard as he did, and said if he
                                          wanted any more, to come on. Jim thought I was a
                                          tremendous dare devil. Jim was older than I, but he always
                                          followed me everywhere; had I stirred up a fight with the
                                          circus men, he would have followed me, and done the best
                                          he could, but he couldn't have done much, as he
                                          was always a weakly boy.
                                   The last wagon drove away about two o'clock in the
                                          morning, and then there was nothing left for us but to go
                                          home. So we sneaked in at the kitchen door; we imagined
                                          mother would leave that open for us, and found she had.
                                          After entering the kitchen, there was a door leading into
                                          the sitting room, and then a stairway leading up to our
                                          room. We had gone around the house, and noted a light in
                                          the sitting room; that's where we expected
                                          trouble. After entering the kitchen, we tried the knob of
                                          the sitting room door, and attempted to turn it quietly.
                                          Ever notice how a door knob squeaks when you try to turn
                                          it quietly? That door knob squeaked, and when we turned
                                          it, opened the door, and went into the sitting room, there sat the editor,
                                          waiting for us. I went in first, and Jim sneaked in behind
                                          me.
                                   "Well," father said,
                                          "you've been to the
                                          circus?"
                                   There was no use trying to deceive him; I was willing to try,
                                          but knew it was impossible, so I replied, meekly:
                                   "Yes, sir."
                                   He thought awhile, as though trying to decide just how hard he
                                          would whip us, and finally inquired:
                                   "How did you like it?"
                                   I was too wise a boy to be enthusiastic, under the
                                          circumstances, so I replied: "O, I
                                          didn't think it amounted to much." (I
                                          did, though; it was the very best show I ever saw in my
                                          life.)
                                   For some reason the editor didn't grab us, and begin
                                          the punishment we expected, and he had no switch.
                                   "Did they say anything about me?" he
                                          asked.
                                   I hadn't thought of that before, but evidently he had
                                          been expecting an attack. I repeated what the clown had
                                          said, making it as mild as possible.
                                   "How did the people take it?" be asked
                                          again.
                                   Then I had an idea; so I replied with animation:
                                   "Well, sir, you should have been there, and seen how
                                          the people took it! Bill Hillman, the sheriff, walked down
                                          to the ring, and shook his fist at the clown, and said the
                                          people wouldn't stand for low circus people abusing a prominent
                                          man like you. And Mr. Cuddy, the banker, he walked down to
                                          the ring, too, and told the circus men what he thought of
                                          them. He said you were one of the most useful men in this
                                          town, and that people looked up to you, and that they
                                          didn't want to hear any moreof
                                          that."
                                   The editor was evidently pleased; still he delayed the
                                          whipping.
                                   "Well," he said at last, after thinking
                                          awhile, "hurry up to bed. We've a big
                                          day's work ahead of us tomorrow."
                                   When we got into bed, we chuckled softly, and Jim nudged me
                                          with his elbow, and said I was certainly the boldest,.
                                          wisest boy the country ever produced.
                                   And we paid back Mr. McCurry next day, with ducks we stole
                                          from mother, and later we fxed it all right with her: she
                                          never was hard on us as father was. When we told her how
                                          we fooled father, she said it was a shame, but we caught
                                          her laughing about it afterwards.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JIM AND DAN AYRES
                                   So little that is really exciting or worth while has happened
                                          in my life that I am greatly interested in Jim and Dan
                                          Ayres, who run the restaurant. Something really happened
                                          to them; I never before heard of boys going anywhere and
                                          finding excitement as great as they expected.
                                   When they were boys they lived on a farm in Virginia; I have
                                          heard them say their postoffice was Sudley Springs. One
                                          morning their father started them to Sunday school, and
                                          after they had loitered along the way a mile or two, Jim
                                          Ayres remarked a commotion over beyond what they called
                                          the Big Woods.
                                   "What's that?" Jim asked,
                                          stopping.
                                   It was getting late by this time, and Dan replied:
                                   "I don't know, but we'd better
                                          hurry to Sunday school, or we'll get a
                                          whipping."
                                   Then they hurried on, but the commotion over beyond the Big
                                          Woods broke out again; faintly, but it was
                                          very'unusual, and Jim stopped and listened. He
                                          had never heard anything like it before, although he was a
                                          big boy twelve years old, and after listening awhile,
                                          said:
                                   "I'm going over there."
                                   
                                   "Better not," Dan said. "You know
                                          father whips hard."
                                   But the strange commotion continued, so Jim said he was going,
                                          whipping or no whipping. Dan followed, but kept saying
                                          they would catch it when they returned home.
                                   They walked, and walked, and walked. All the time the
                                          commotion over beyond the Big Woods became more
                                          pronounced, but they couldn't tell what it was.
                                          They forded streams, and were chased by strange dogs, but
                                          kept on; from ten o'clock in the morning until
                                          three o'clock in the afternoon. They had nothing
                                          to eat, and they didn't know that they could ever
                                          find their way back, because they were in a country
                                          strange to them. But they kept on, and a little after
                                          three o'clock, as a reward for their
                                          perseverance, they walked into the battle of Bull Run.
                            
                            
                            
                                   GEORGE COULTER
                                   Although I have always worked as an editor and printer, it has
                                          been in country printing offices, and I would know no more
                                          about working on a city newspaper than I know about
                                          building or repairing telephone lines. In the country
                                          printing offices we do everything: reporting, editing,
                                          soliciting, job work, writing cards of thanks, making
                                          rollers of glue and molasses, and running the engine or
                                          press on occasion. All these things I have done, as
                                          proprietor, devil and editor, until I can almost do them
                                          with my eyes shut.
                                   But one day a real Journalist drifted into the country
                                          newspaper office where I was editor and owner. He was a
                                          specialist; a real live wire, and had worked in a big
                                          town. His name was George Coulter, and his specialty was
                                          the subscription department. He was also a writer; indeed,
                                          he gave me to understand that when he worked in Denver, on
                                          the Tribune, there was some question as
                                          to whether George Coulter or Eugene Field would finally
                                          become noted. But George Coulter finally preferred the
                                          Business End, and as our subscription list needed help, we
                                          put him on. He soon convinced me that our way was
                                          old-fashioned and ineffective, which I had long suspected,
                                          and he at once introduced his
                                          new ideas, although we never noticed much change.
                                   Coulter was a little man, and there were wide spaces between
                                          his front teeth. His health was never very good, and as he
                                          was thin as well as short, his head was so small that the
                                          bows of the man-size spectacles he wore wrapped twice
                                          around his ears. It developed that the other employés, who
                                          had never had experience in a big town, and had drifted
                                          into the front office from the press room or composing
                                          room, were as good as Coulter, but we all rather liked
                                          him, and as his pay didn't amount to much, kept
                                          him.
                                   Soon after George Coulter's arrival we met his wife;
                                          a tall, stout woman probably sixty-five years old. Couter
                                          was not to exceed thirty, and really didn't
                                          amount to much but I have never known another husband to
                                          be admired as he was. Mrs. Coulter was a doctor, and had
                                          been married before; I heard of two previous husbands,
                                          both of them doctors. Whether she had had others I do not
                                          know, but she worshipped George, and believed him to be a
                                          great journalist. She occasionally irritated me by giving
                                          the impression that the prosperity of the paper was due to
                                          her husband's efforts, but she was a kindly old
                                          woman, and I let her believe that Coulter did what the
                                          rest of us were doing, and had been doing many years
                                          before he came.
                                   I discovered, also, that the domestic relations of Mr. and Mrs. Coulter were not
                                          always happy. Coulter frequently went on the road to
                                          solicit subscriptions; by going into a territory where the
                                          paper was not very well known, he sometimes did very well,
                                          and was useful in a way; but I discovered that before
                                          starting on these trips, he usually had a difference with
                                          his wife.
                                   And his wife was so distressed about it! She seemed to be to
                                          blame; anyway, she took the blame, and often came to me,
                                          and begged me to coax Coulter to return to her. He was
                                          working on a commission basis, and we never paid much
                                          attention when he came and went; we never really cared
                                          whether he ever came back. But his wife loved him
                                          sincerely, and, as she had money earned in practising a
                                          profession learned from her other husbands, she brought
                                          money to me, and asked me to send it to Coulter, that he
                                          might come home. She feared he might be ill on the road,
                                          and poor, and, as he was very sensitive, she felt that
                                          maybe he was staying away from her because he
                                          hadn't a new suit of clothes. So I often sent him
                                          his wife's money, when there was none coming to
                                          him from the office, and he would come back, and loiter
                                          around in his listless way a few weeks, and then disappear
                                          again.
                                   Coulter was really a disagreeable problem to us, but he was
                                          inoffensive, and drifted along from month to month. He
                                          didn't act as though be felt superior to his associates at the office,
                                          but he certainly felt superior to his stout wife, and I
                                          often wondered she didn't make him behave
                                          himself, as she was really quite a woman, and had a good
                                          practice.
                                   When Coulter retured from one of his long trips, I noticed he
                                          didn't look very well. After appearing at the
                                          office every day for a week or two, he disappeared, but I
                                          supposed he was mad at his wife again about something, and
                                          had gone away. A week later, however, I heard he was ill.
                                          I had a distinct consciousness that I should go to see
                                          him, but was very busy, and kept putting it off from day
                                          to day.
                                   One morning, a strange little girl appeared at the counter
                                          with a note for me. Somehow I had feeling that the note
                                          was from Mrs. Coulter, and that her husband was worse.
                                          Then I felt guilty because I had not called to see her
                                          before.
                                   It turned out as I feared; Coulter was not only worse: he was
                                          dead, and Mrs. Coulter asked in the note that I come to
                                          see her. Feeling guilty, I went at once.
                                   She lived over the jewellery store, on the main street, and
                                          when I climbed the stairway softly, and rapped at the
                                          door, was admitted.
                                   Mrs. Coulter was in a pitiful state of grief, and I was
                                          thoroughly ashamed of myself because I had neglected her.
                                          It also developed that she was almost in need; she had
                                          been unable to practise during her husband's illness, and
                                          asked if I would not help her provide a coffin in which to
                                          send the body to a brother who lived in another town. I
                                          cheerfully agreed to do this, and comforted the distressed
                                          widow as much as I could.
                                   The body was lying in the room, on a board supported by two
                                          chairs, and I thought it no more than decent to look at
                                          poor George, but when I raised the sheet with which his
                                          body was covered, I encountered his feet, instead of his
                                          face, and was compelled to try again.
                                   Mrs. Coulter told me what a wonderful man her husband was; how
                                          journalism had been robbed of one of its ornaments, and
                                          how he was just getting started in the world when death
                                          cut him off. I accepted all she said, as people do under
                                          such circumstances, and added a comforting word myself,
                                          although the actual facts were that Coulter, during his
                                          lifetime, had not amounted to much.
                                   Then I went away to make the funeral arrangements. Arriving at
                                          the undertaker's, I felt so ashamed because of my
                                          neglect of Coulter that bought a very good casket, and
                                          resolved to have a choir, and a funeral service. Mrs.
                                          Coulter intended leaving with the body on a late afternoon
                                          train, so I had plenty of time, and went at once to the
                                          most popular preacher in town. When I told him how
                                          friendless Coulter was, the preacher readily agreed to officiate at the
                                          funeral, and helped me make up a quartet to sing
                                          appropriate hymns. The soprano and contralto
                                          hadn't much to do, and as they were friends of
                                          mine I had no trouble in securing their consent by
                                          telephone.
                                   I had some trouble with the tenor and bass. Both of them
                                          worked for employers who were often bothered by requests
                                          to let the singers off, but I called on these employers,
                                          and, by telling them what a good fellow Coulter was, they
                                          not only agreed to let the singers off, but promised to
                                          attend the services I had arranged.
                                   Then I went to work on the pall bearers. I picked out five of
                                          the most prominent men in town, determined that Mrs.
                                          Coulter should be satisfied with the funeral I had
                                          arranged, however much she resented my neglect to call
                                          during her husband's illness. The men I picked
                                          out as pall bearers were very kind, and readily consented
                                          to act, when I explained the case; men are always very
                                          nice about such things.
                                   The funeral was to occur at 5 P. M., and the men who were to
                                          act with me as pall bearers were instructed to meet at
                                          that hour at the foot of the stairway leading up to Mrs.
                                          Coulter's rooms over the jewellery store. They
                                          were all there promptly, except Balie Waggener, the
                                          lawyer. When he didn't come I recalled that he
                                          was always promising to deliver public addresses, and then
                                          failing to appear, but I hadn't time to be indignant, for the hour of
                                          the funeral had arrived, and we lacked a pall bearer. The
                                          bankers I had selected to assist were also indignant
                                          because of Balie's failure to appear, and said
                                          that was the way he did in everything. But just then Sam
                                          Kelsey, the mayor, came along. I wondered I had forgotten
                                          the mayor, so we grabbed him, and explained that we needed
                                          him. He had just lit a ffteen cent cigar, but threw it
                                          away, after taking a few regretful puffs, and we hurried
                                          him up the stairs ahead of us.
                                   Sam Kelsey, the mayor, was a noted lodgeman and old soldier,
                                          and knew just what to do at a funeral, so he at once took
                                          charge. All the pall bearers, except the mayor, sent
                                          flowers, as had the two employers who had excused the
                                          tenor and bass to sing in the quartet. The members of the
                                          quartet were present, as was the preacher, and two girls
                                          from the office. Mrs. Coulter had always believed the
                                          girls at the office flirted with her husband, although
                                          they really abominated him, but in the presence of death
                                          she forgave all, and had her arms about one of them.
                                   Sam Kelsey, being experienced, saw that we were ready to
                                          begin, so he made a signal to the members of the quartet,
                                          and they sang two beautiful selections. It was really very
                                          impressive, and Mrs. Coulter shook with emotion; indeed,
                                          all of us were moved. Mrs. Coulter evidently thought the
                                          leading men of the town were
                                          paying George the attention he deserved, now that he was
                                          dead, and her grief greatly moved me, for she was really
                                          fond of her husband. Sam Kelsey tiptoed over to Mrs.
                                          Coulter during the singing, and spoke a comforting word to
                                          her, and if any of the pall bearers did not know how to
                                          act he gently and quietly put them right.
                                   TIe preacher spoke impressively of the dead; I had given him
                                          an idea of the life of the deceased, making it as
                                          favourable as possible; and, after the quartet sang
                                          another hymn, Sam Kelsey, the mayor, knew it was time to
                                          carry the casket down the stairway to the hearse, which
                                          had backed up to the sidewalk. So he arranged the pall
                                          bearers according to size, and, at a signal from him, we
                                          picked up the casket, and carried it reverently down the
                                          stairs, depositing it in the hearse.
                                   My idea was to cut across lots, meet the hearse at the depot,
                                          and put the casket in the baggage car, but Sam Kelsey
                                          wouldn't have it that way: he lined us up on
                                          either side of the hearse, three on a side, and, after
                                          squinting along the lines, to see that we were properly
                                          placed, he gave a signal to the driver of the hearse, and
                                          we walked with measured tread to the depot.
                                   We had on white cotton gloves, much too long for us in every
                                          finger, but altogether we made a rather impressive
                                          procession, with Mrs. Coulter and the two girls from the office
                                          following in a carriage.
                                   Arriving at the depot, we placed the casket on a truck, and
                                          wheeled it to the baggage car. It was a very hot day, but
                                          Sam Kelsey made us remove our hats while taking the casket
                                          from the hearse to the baggage car. The casket was very
                                          heavy, and it was hard work getting it into the car, but
                                          finally this was accomplished, and the flowers placed on
                                          the casket. Then we stood around in solemn silence for a
                                          moment, before departing, and Sam Kelsey, with his hat
                                          still off, wiped a lot of perspiration from the top of his
                                          bald head, and, leaning over to me, whispered in a tender,
                                          sympathetic way:
                                   "Who was he?"
                            
                            
                            
                                   SAMMY HEMINGWAY
                                   Among the children in the school I attended in the country
                                          when a boy were the five Hemingway boys, particular
                                          friends of mine. Their father was killed at Shiloh, and
                                          when I went to their house to stay all night and found
                                          their mother in bad humour I forgave it, as people said
                                          the death of Mr. Hemingway had ruined her disposition.
                                          Besides, she had seven children, and only one of them was
                                          a girl and she was married and lived in a distant
                                          state.
                                   One of the Hemingway boys, Sammy, the oldest one,
                                          didn't go to school. He was simple-minded, owing
                                          to the doctor giving him strong medicine when he was a
                                          baby, it was said, so he remained at home and made boots.
                                          His father had been a bootmaker before he went away to the
                                          war, and Sammy had assisted him. When the father went away
                                          it was discovered that Sammy knew the trade, and after
                                          that he made the boots for the men and boys in the
                                          neighbourhood. Most of the men and boys in our section
                                          wore rough boots made by Sammy Hemingway. When a man
                                          became a little more prosperous than the others he ordered
                                          kip boots, with red tops, and Sammy Hemingway made these
                                          too.
                                   When I needed new boots I was sent to Mrs. Hem- ingway's, where Sammy
                                          measured me; when my old boots needed repairing I was also
                                          sent there, where I took off my boots and sat in the room
                                          with Sarmmy until the repairs were completed.
                                   I therefore knew Sammy pretty well, but never knew his mother
                                          very well until I began going there to stay all night with
                                          her boys, two of whom were near my own age. When we
                                          arrived from school we always found Mrs. Hemingway fretful
                                          but the boys would whisper to me that she would be all
                                          right after a while, so we kept out of her way and did the
                                          evening chores.
                                   Sammy was twenty-five years old, and had black-whiskers all
                                          over his face, which his mother trimmed occasionally. She
                                          also cut his hair and made his clothes. When supper was
                                          ready Mrs. Hemingwray would put food on his plate, and he
                                          would eat it, but he never asked for more. Indeed, he
                                          couldn't talk very well, and it was necessary to
                                          lead him to the table, and to his room upstairs.
                                   When there were no boots to make or shoes to mend Sammy was
                                          led to his room and locked up. When a customer came his
                                          mother went for Sammy, and he seemed to understand what
                                          was wanted; he had learned it from his father, and
                                          measured, and pegged, and sewed, until the work was done.
                                          Then he was locked up again.
                                   But though Mrs. Hemingway was always in a bad humour when I went there to stay
                                          all night she gradually became better natured toward
                                          evening; and when all the work was done she would sit
                                          about the fire with us and tell about the people she used
                                          to know in Indiana, where she came from. By eight
                                          o'clock she was as good-natured a woman as I ever
                                          knew, and said she was glad I came, and insisted that I
                                          come often.
                                   Sammy never paid any attention to me; when we children played
                                          in the evening he pegged away at his bootmaking without
                                          looking up. His workbench was in the main sitting room at
                                          one end of the fireplace, and we paid no more attention to
                                          Sammy than he paid to us. If he ran out of work he would
                                          go over to his mother, tug at her dress and indicate that
                                          he was ready to go to his room and be locked up.
                                          Occasionally at night when we children went upstairs to
                                          bed Mrs. Hemingway would give us the key to
                                          Sammy's room, that we might go in and see that he
                                          was all right. If he were awake we found him convulsively
                                          working his hands, as he always did when not mending or
                                          making boots; if he were asleep his right hand was always
                                          lying across his forehead, as though he had a pain there.
                                          If Sammy ever disturbed any one it was his mother, for no
                                          one else ever took any care of him or knew much about
                                          him.
                                   One day when I asked permission of my mother to stay all night
                                          with the Hemingway boys she refused, saying Mrs. Hemingway was poorly.
                                          After that Mrs. Hemingway's sickness became the
                                          topic of conversation for months, and I learned that her
                                          fretfulness was due to the fact that she had long been a
                                          sufferer from some serious malady. She grew gradually
                                          worse, and had no one to help her. The neighbour women
                                          took turn about calling on her every day, straightening
                                          up, but finally it became apparent that some one must
                                          remain with her all the time, which the women could ill
                                          afford as they had big families of their own.
                                   About this time I heard that Mrs. Hemingway's married
                                          daughter in Indiana had been sent for. It was the custom
                                          when any one went to town to bring home mail for the
                                          entire neighbourhood, which was distributed by the
                                          children. After that when we met any one coming from town
                                          we asked if Mrs. Hemingway's letter had come, for
                                          Mrs. Hemingway was growing weaker and greatly needed her
                                          daughter.
                                   At last the long-expected letter came; father brought it from
                                          town one afternoon, and while I hurried over to her house
                                          with it the other children went to the houses of other
                                          neighbours, and told them the good news-that Mrs.
                                          Hemingway's letter had at last arrived.
                                   When I arrived at the Hemingway house and knocked, Sammy was
                                          sitting near the door making boots, but paid no atention
                                          to me, but his mother, who was lying in a bed in the same
                                          room, told me to come in. She
                                          looked dreadfully pale and weak, and asked me to read the
                                          letter. It was full of affection, and the writer said she
                                          would start three days later. Mrs. Hemingway told me to
                                          carry the letter at once to my father, which I did, and he
                                          decided that it would be necessary for him to start for
                                          the railroad that night in order to meet her.
                                   When I took the letter to Mrs. Hemingway's I noticed
                                          that Sammy, though he was simpleminded, seemed to realize
                                          that something was wrong with his mother. My bringing the
                                          letter excited him, and he quit his bootmaking and went
                                          over to his mother and put his hand on her forehead, and
                                          moaned like a child in pain. When he returned to his chair
                                          he swayed to and fro and forgot about his bootmaking for a
                                          time, and I was compelled to hurry out of the room, to
                                          keep from crying, it was so pitiful.
                                   After that we watched the road for signs of the visitor, for
                                          Mrs. Hemingway was very bad off; but when the visitor did
                                          arrive, bringing two little girls with her, things seemed
                                          to go better at the Hemingways'. The daughter,
                                          whose name was Latimer, straightened things out, and made
                                          her mother more comfortable. Mrs. Latimer was one of the
                                          nicest women we had ever seen, and the manner in which she
                                          was up with her mother night and day won us all.
                                   After Mrs. Latimer had been there a month people began to
                                          wonder how Mr. Latimer took it; there were predictions that he
                                          wouldn't like doing the milking and the cooking,
                                          and one day when Mr. Latimer arrived we thought he had
                                          come after his wife, and to make fuss. But he
                                          hadn't; he had come to help his wife and Mrs.
                                          Hemingway. We heard of his going to town after delicacies
                                          for Mrs. Hemingway, and on returning from these trips he
                                          always brought things for the Hemingway boys too.
                                   Soon after his arrival I was sent over to ask how Mrs.
                                          Hemingway was. She wasn't any better; in fact she
                                          was a great deal worse, and didn't know me. Even
                                          Sammy had noticed some great change, for while I was there
                                          he rose from his bench, went over to his mother's
                                          bed and tried to induce her to get up.
                                   Mr. Latimer was in the room and his patience and gentlenes
                                          greatly attracted me; I had not been accustomed to that
                                          sort of thing. His fondness for his wife and her fondness
                                          for him also surprised me. I was sent to Mrs.
                                          Hemingway's many times after that to inquire how
                                          she was, and Mr. and Mrs. Latimer' devotion to
                                          each other was a wonderful thing; I had never before seen
                                          wives and husbands who seemed to think a great deal of
                                          each other.
                                   One night word came to our house that Mrs. Hemingway was dead,
                                          and I went with my father to ring the bell. It was the
                                          custom in our neighbourhood to toll the church bell when
                                          there was a death, one ring for each year of the
                                          deceased's age. I sat shivering in the church until my father
                                          tolled the bell fifty-seven times, and then we went home.
                                          As we walked along through the darkness, returning home
                                          from tolling the bell, my father told me that one day
                                          during Mrs. Hemingway's illness she asked that
                                          all leave the room except Mr. Latimer. When she was alone
                                          with him she asked as her dying request that he be good to
                                          Sammy. And Mr. Laimer promised, and my father seemed much
                                          moved by the incident, as I think all the people in the
                                          neighbourhood were. The gentleness and kindness of Mr. and
                                          Mrs. Latimer did us all good.
                                   The day after the funeral Mr. Latimer announced that he
                                          intended taking the family back to his home in Indiana.
                                          Mrs. Hemingway had requested it, and he thought it was as
                                          little as he could do; so on the fourth morning after the
                                          death they started, Sammy sitting on his
                                          shoemaker's bench and the boys climbing all over
                                          the wagon.
                                   And then, after saying good-bye, about the only good husband
                                          ever known in our neighbourhood drove away.
                            
                            
                            
                                   DAVIS STRAIGHT
                                   When I was ten years old my Uncle Joe came to our house on his
                                          wedding journey, driving a pair of little mules to a farm
                                          wagon; and it was arranged that I should accompany him
                                          home and visit my grandmother, who lived five miles from
                                          his house, in the Grand River hills.
                                   Uncle Joe's bride didn't like me very well,
                                          and I didn't stay long at their house; Uncle Joe
                                          soon took me over to my grandmother's, who had a
                                          son only a little older than I was; a boy named Nate, a
                                          noted hunter, for he had killed wild turkeys.
                                   Nate never did do much but hunt, but I was kept pretty busy at
                                          home and greatly enjoyed the vacation. We went hunting
                                          every day, but Nate said I had brought him bad luck, for
                                          we didn't find any turkeys; nor much else except
                                          a few squirrels. We were the idlest pair of vagabonds in
                                          that entire section, and a certain boy living in the same
                                          neighbourhood caused us a good deal of annoyance. He was a
                                          famous good boy named Davis Straight, and some sort of a
                                          distant relation of ours; but we didn't like him,
                                          he was so industrious and well-behaved. We were always
                                          being told how industrious and worthy Davis Straight was,
                                          and wherever we went we met him on the road driving a wagon loaded with wood;
                                          and every time we met him he had a turkey or wild goose on
                                          the wagon. He had run into the game accidentally, while at
                                          work; we couldn't do it, hunt as hard as we
                                          would.
                                   But one day we sneaked up to a little lake in the Grand River
                                          bottom, and there sat a wild goose with its head under
                                          water poking round for wild celery. I was so anxious to
                                          get a goose that I let Nate shoot, though it was my turn.
                                          He had an old shotgun, and was a noted shot with it, and
                                          while he was taking aim I thought as rapidly as they say
                                          drowning man does; I made up my mind to tell the other
                                          boys, when I returned home, that there were two geese, and
                                          that I got them both.
                                   Just then there was a muffled report and Nate fell over on the
                                          ground with his fingers in his mouth; the gun had burst,
                                          and the goose flew away.
                                   Nate wasn't much hurt, and we started home, carrying
                                          the heavy gun, though there weren't enough
                                          gun-smiths in the world to do anything with it; it had
                                          burst at the breach. We had put in a goose-and-turkey
                                          load, and put in too much.
                                   Of course we met Davis Straight on the way home with a load of
                                          wood. He had a wild turkey, which he had run into
                                          accidentally and shot without any delay; otherwise he
                                          wouldn't have stopped. He was such a good boy
                                          that he always returned home when expected--or
                                          earlier--ready to be at something else, and shame Nate and me. Davis
                                          Straight was my Aunt Beckie's stepson, and I
                                          never could understand how she tolerated him.
                                   Having no gun, time didn't pass very rapidly, and
                                          Nate and I became quarrelsome; indeed we came near having
                                          a fight one day. So grandmother said it was time for me to
                                          go home.
                                   It was forty miles to where I lived through an almost unbroken
                                          country, but I was mad at Nate, so I struck out to walk
                                          home, without bidding Nate good-bye. Grandmother said it
                                          was a shame the way we acted, but Nate started it; I
                                          remember that.
                                   I left in the afternoon, intending to spend the night at Uncle
                                          Joe's, who lived five miles on the way. Aunt Mary
                                          wasn't very glad to see me, though she was a
                                          bride, but I told her she needn't worry; that I
                                          intended leaving at daylight next morning. Uncle Joe
                                          talked of taking me part way in the wagon, saying that it
                                          was a shame for me to walk home after coming so far to see
                                          them, but Aunt Mary soon put a stop to that talk; she
                                          seemed to ran things round that house. Aunt Mary was a
                                          Brassfield, and the Brassfields thought a good deal of
                                          themselves; I think they opposed 'her marrying
                                          Uncle Joe in the first place.
                                   I liked the way she talked so little that I got up at daylight
                                          and started without eating any breakfast. Uncle Joe was a
                                          good deal exercised about my starting out on foot; he
                                          always was the best one in the family. But he couldn't help himself; he was
                                          afraid of Aunt Mary, who didn't like me.
                                   I intended stopping that night at George Meek's, a
                                          neighbour of ours before we moved to town. That left
                                          thirty miles for me to walk from daylight to dark; but I
                                          didn't think much of it--before I started and
                                          when I was mad at Nate. There were only a few houses on
                                          the way, and the road ran mostly through prairie.
                                   About noon I passed a house and went in, asking for a drink of
                                          water, but really hoping they would give me something to
                                          eat. They were just sitting down to the table, and the man
                                          asked me to eat with them.
                                   I thought I must be polite a while, and said: "No,
                                          thank you."
                                   Unfortunately the man took me at my word and said:
                                          "Well, of course, if you don't want
                                          anything, all right, but you're welcome to
                                          it."
                                   I sat and watched them eat a while, and then went out to the
                                          bars and cried because I was such a fool. But I had to
                                          make it to George Meek's before dark, as there
                                          were panthers in the woods round his place, the big boys
                                          said; so I started on my weary way again.
                                   In the middle of the afternoon I passed through a little town
                                          called Bancroft, a collection of half a dozen houses and a
                                          store. When I went into the store the proprietor was
                                          eating candied cherries out of a jar. I was hungry but had no money, and would not
                                          beg. The man dropped one of the cherries, and I was just
                                          about to dart after it, when he mashed it with his foot.
                                          He was the burliest ruffian I ever saw.
                                   The walk nearly killed me, and I dragged myself into George
                                          Meek's house about dark. They knew me well, and
                                          were surprised when I told them how far I had walked. They
                                          offered me food but I couldn't eat much, and went
                                          to bed, sick.
                                   The next day I had a high fever, and my father was sent for.
                                          He came the second day with a horse and buggy, to take me
                                          home. I lay down in the bottom of the buggy on a quilt,
                                          and father was disposed to grumble because I had made
                                          myself sick.
                                   When we reached home mother was waiting at the front gate.
                                   "Where's Ed?" she asked
                                          anxiously.
                                   For some reason father replied: "He was too sick to
                                          bring home."
                                   Mother turned toward the house hurriedly, to get her bonnet
                                          and shawl, and said: "You needn't put up
                                          the horse; I am going right back after him."
                                   There had never been much affection in our family, father was
                                          so stern and busy, and her saying that made me cry. She
                                          heard me sobbing, and she came back and took me into the
                                          house, where I told her exactly how Nate and Aunt Mary and
                                          grandmother had treated me.
                            
                            
                            
                                   SAM HARRIS
                                   The smartest banker in this part of the country, it is
                                          generally said round town, is Sam Harris. Unfortunately he
                                          has one very bad habit: Occasionally he goes down to the
                                          city and engages in dissipation. At such times he takes
                                          with him a long pistol kept in the bank in case of
                                          burglars, and it is always feared he will shoot some
                                          one.
                                   Ordinarily he is a very thrifty man, locally noted for getting
                                          all that is coming to him; and we country people talk a
                                          good deal about that, too, as well as his occasional
                                          sprees.
                                   He has a fine family, and when he goes off on the rampage his
                                          wife hurries to her particular friends and begs that they
                                          drop their work and go and look after him. They
                                          don't like to do it, but they all like Margaret,
                                          and usually consent.
                                   The last time Sam gave way to his weakness it was Link
                                          Morrill's turn to go to the city, look him up,
                                          care for him, and bring him back safe to his family, to
                                          sober up. Link grumbled a good deal about going and said
                                          he couldn't afford the time, but he had known
                                          Margaret since she was a baby, almost, and
                                          couldn't resist her tearful appeal.
                                   So Link went to the city, soon found Sam by going by to the roughest part of
                                          town, and took charge of him.
                                   As they walked along down near the union depot they passed an
                                          auction store where cigars were being sold. The auctioneer
                                          was a loud-voiced man, and said he proposed to open a box
                                          of the cigars and throw them into the crowd, in order that
                                          the gentlemen present might each get one, smoke it and
                                          realize the extra quality. The auctioneer intimated very
                                          broadly that the goods he was offering had been smuggled
                                          into the country without paying duty, and that he was
                                          offering twenty-cent cigars for whatever they would
                                          bring.
                                   The talk about giving something away attracted Sam
                                          Harris' attention, in spite of his condition, and
                                          he went into the auction room, Link following to look
                                          after him. Again the auctioneer said he would throw a box
                                          of the valuable cigars in the crowd, in order that those
                                          present might realize their extra quality. Suiting the
                                          action to the word he threw a box into the crowd.
                                   Immediately there was a great scramble; those in the room went
                                          into a heap on the floor, wrestling round after the free
                                          cigars, and Link says it was very rough. Sam Harris
                                          promptly engaged in the scuffle and pushed and rushed with
                                          the roughest of the rough men. Link says it was the
                                          toughest bunch he ever saw.
                                   The free samples being disposed of, the auctioneer began offering cigars like them
                                          for sale, and Link and Sam went out. As they walked on
                                          down the street trying to reach a safe part of town Link
                                          frankly told Sam he ought to be ashamed of himself; that
                                          though he was a great banker, a good citizen and the head
                                          of a fine family, his friends were through chasing after
                                          him when he went on the rampage, and that in th future he
                                          might depend on looking after himself. Link had long
                                          wanted to talk to Sam plainly, and accepted this
                                          occasion.
                                   About this time Sam took a cigar from his vest pocket and
                                          lighted it. Link wanted a cigar also, and not having one
                                          of his own took one from Sam's pocket. In doing
                                          so he found all his pockets full, and was curious to know
                                          how many he had managed to get in the rough scramble at
                                          the auction store. He counted, and found Sam had
                                          thirty-two.
                                   Link says if Sam hadn't been drunk he would have got
                                          all of them.
                            
                            
                            
                                   BART WHERRY
                                   Our people are distressed because Bart Wherry, the lawyer,
                                          will move to the county seat and open an office there. We
                                          don't like to lose a good citizen, particularly
                                          one like Bart Wherry, who has become rather noted over he
                                          state because of his speeches in conventions and at
                                          notable court trials.
                                   So a committee called on him to see if anything could be done.
                                          It turned out nothing could be done; Bart is going away.
                                          He talked quite frankly to members of the committee. It
                                          seems he is tired of keeping Charley Millard down.
                                   Charley Millard is a man of about Bart's age, and in
                                          Bar's employ; he sits in the outer office and
                                          tells callers when Bart will be at leisure. In addition he
                                          keeps the books and looks after the collections.
                                   Charley Millard does not really amount to a great deal, having
                                          tried practising law for himself, but when Bart Wherry
                                          wins a big case we all say Charley Millard really won it;
                                          that he looked up the law and told Bart what to say in the
                                          trial. When Bart makes a speech at a convention and the
                                          papers ring with it, we say Charley Millard wrote the
                                          speech; that he is bookish, while Bart is not.
                                   Charley Millard's wife also believes her husband should have the reputation
                                          as a lawyer enjoyed by his employer, and in the course of
                                          a long time Bart has become tired of the talk. So he is
                                          going to the county seat to open an office.
                                   Charley Millard wanted to go along and occupy his old
                                          position, but Bart said to him: "No, Charley, you
                                          have already done too much for me. I want you to take the
                                          position in the legal world your talents deserve. And at
                                          the same time I expect Fin. Wilkinson to be nominated this
                                          fall for President of the United States. It has always
                                          been said of Fin. that were it not for whisky he would
                                          occupy the first position in the gift of the people. Now
                                          that no more liquor is to be had let Fin. come through
                                          with you."
                            
                            
                            
                                   PILSON BLAIR
                                   A good many observers say Pilson Blair is enjoying his second
                                          wife as much as the Widow Sayer enjoys the life insurance
                                          she colleted from the lodge.
                            
                            
                            
                                   BEN BARTON
                                   Though we are excited in this town nearly every day because of
                                          a rumour that something is likely to happen before night,
                                          it usually blows over, and we find there was not a great
                                          deal in the talk in the first place.
                                   But one day a bomb exploded without the slightest preliminary
                                          warning: Ben Barton and his wife Emily parted.
                                   We had known them for years, and they seemed to get along as
                                          well as any respectable married couple. They had a nice
                                          home and three interesting children. Ben was prosperous,
                                          and generally said to be a coming man; his wife was a
                                          model of propriety, and belonged to an excellent family.
                                          But there was no doubt of the truth of the report. Ben
                                          went to the home of his parents to live, and Emily
                                          remained in the house where their children were born; in a
                                          little while they applied quietly to the court, and were
                                          divorced on account of incompatibility.
                                   Both Ben and Emily were naturally quiet and dignified, and
                                          since neither of them volunteered any information we were
                                          afraid to ask them. So for a year the cause of the trouble
                                          between them was the town mystery.
                                   
                                   A start was finally made by Tom Wyman, who made a trip to the
                                          city with Ben, and while they had nothing else to do
                                          talked about a little of everything except the divorce.
                                          But Tom did say to Ben that though Emily had talked rather
                                          freely to her women friends about their differences she
                                          had said nothing that prevented the boys from being on his
                                          side.
                                   Tom had not really heard of Emily saying anything, but thought
                                          he would try that, and it worked first rate. Ben took a
                                          good deal of interest in the statement that his former
                                          wife had been talking about him, and, though he
                                          didn't say anything definite, as soon as Tom
                                          returned home he saw to it that some of the women said to
                                          Emily that though Ben had been talking rather freely to
                                          the men they were on her side. She also took a good deal
                                          of interest, and by degrees we got the whole story. Ben
                                          told his side, and Emily told hers, fully and freely.
                                   I know only Ben's side, which I have heard him tell,
                                          and perhaps this will be sufficient.
                                   Ben says his wife not only insisted on keeping a cow but sold
                                          milk, and he didn't like it, as it was an
                                          intimation that he didn't provide his wife with a
                                          resonable amount of spending money. Nor was this all;
                                          though they kept a hired man and servant girl the cow was
                                          very troublesome. Ben says he rarely went home in the
                                          evening that there wasn't some row about the cow
                                          not coming up or the children failing to de- liver the milk. If it
                                          wasn't that it was a dispute about tickets, and
                                          one time a woman in the neighbourhood made a great row
                                          over the milk sent her, saying a preservative had been put
                                          into it, which made her baby so ill she was compelled to
                                          send for a doctor. There was some talk of arresting Ben,
                                          though he had always been opposed to keeping a cow and
                                          particularly to selling milk.
                                   All this made Ben very angry, so he said to his wife they
                                          didn't seem to be cut out for the milk business;
                                          that the cow had long annoyed him and that since he was
                                          doing well he would cheerfully buy all the milk the family
                                          needed. Ben confessed he talked more freely to Emily than
                                          he had ever done before, but thought he had at least
                                          settled the cow question for ever; the animal was sold at
                                          a sacrifice, and he heard no more about the matter for
                                          three months.
                                   Then a man came to Ben and said they might as well understand
                                          each other; that Ben's cow had broken into his
                                          garden and damaged things so much that he would no longer
                                          stand it. Ben replied that he had no cow, but the man
                                          proved he had. It seemed that Emily bad bought another cow
                                          without her husband's knowledge, kept it in a
                                          neighbour's barn and was again selling milk.
                                   One word brought on another, with the result that they
                                          parted.
                                   
                                   As I have already admitted, I do not know Emily's
                                          side of the story, which I regret; I would like to hear
                                          her explanation of one charge made by her former husband,
                                          and which investigation reveals to be true.
                                   She has been free from Ben two years, and has plenty of means;
                                          she has a barn and a hired man, but since her husband left
                                          the house she has not kept a cow.
                            
                            
                            
                                   LIGE BANTA
                                   When I was a boy, a noted character in our village was an old
                                          bachelor named Lige Banta.
                                   There had long been jokes about Lige Banta's
                                          bachelorhood, as he kept bachelor's hall; and he
                                          seemed to do pretty well at it, for he was a fat and
                                          good-natured man of about forty. He ran a butcher shop,
                                          and it rarely happened that any one bought meat of him
                                          without mentioning the marrying joke. Lige rather liked
                                          the banter of the people, and always said he
                                          didn't marry because no one would have him.
                                   But it was reported one day that Lige was actually to be
                                          married, and the rumour attracted much attention. Finally
                                          the name of the woman came out. Lige, to the surprise of
                                          everybody, admitted that this time the story was true,
                                          after many false alarms, and that he would be married
                                          early on a certain Thursday morning, and take the stage
                                          for Chillicothe on his wedding trip.
                                   I had a consuming desire to witness the marriage, never having
                                          seen one. I wondered what the ceremony was like, and had a
                                          notion that it was something wonderful. Lige Banta was a
                                          friend of mine, and I often put myself in his way, but he
                                          didn't invite me. Finally I made up my mind that I must see that wedding
                                          ceremony or die of curiosity.
                                   The morning the wedding was to take place I over-slept, and
                                          was not able to put on my Sunday suit; I only had time to
                                          slip on my everyday clothes, which consisted of a pair of
                                          pants, a hickory shirt and a straw hat. Hurrying into this
                                          costume I ran all the way to the part of the town where
                                          the marriage was to take place, without knowing exactly
                                          how I was to get in. Arriving in front of the house I saw
                                          people entering, and gradually worked up to the door. At
                                          last, when I thought it must be time for the ceremony, a
                                          belated guest hurried up, and when he went in I went in
                                          with him.
                                   There were ten or fifteen men and women sitting round, and my
                                          appearance amused them. It was summertime, and my
                                          pantaloons were rolled up at the bottom, showing brown
                                          legs and bare feet. I had on galluses, and my hat was an
                                          old straw affair that was very decidedly out of place at a
                                          wedding. The guests though greatly amused didn't
                                          know I hadn't been invited and didn't
                                          put me out.
                                   Fortuately attention was soon drawn from me; a side door
                                          opened and Lige came out with his bride. I can't
                                          recall her name; she probably belonged to a family I
                                          didn't know very well. The man I came in with
                                          turned out to be the preacher, and he stepped up to read
                                          the ceremony.
                                   
                                   I was greatly disappointed; it didn't amount to
                                          anything, and I half regretted coming. After the ceremony
                                          the guests went up and congratulated Mr. and Mrs. Banta
                                          and I followed their example. By this time I was
                                          attracting more attention than the bride and groom, the
                                          preacher and the bride's kin. Lige
                                          didn't seem to care, and I thought I might find
                                          opportuity to take him off to one side and explain
                                          matters.
                                   The bride's kin had prepared a wedding breakfast, and
                                          when it was ready they invited me out with the others.
                                          They had lots of fun with me, and heaped my plate with
                                          things to eat, but as I had a ravenous appetite they
                                          didn't have any more fun with me than I had with
                                          them. It happened that there was a vacant seat next to the
                                          bride, and I was assigned to that. I always did talk too
                                          much, and it wasn't long before I was impatient
                                          when interrupted by the bride or groom, the preacher or
                                          any of the guests.
                                   Soon after the breakfast was over the stage came along, and
                                          Lige and his bride left for Chillicothe. I swung on
                                          behind, and rode uptown.
                                   When my mother heard about my attending the wedding she cried,
                                          but she didn't whip me; she never whipped her
                                          children, but my father whipped hard. But fortunately he
                                          never heard of it though every one else did. The story of
                                          my attending the wedding uninvited, in my bare feet, got
                                          round--stories on me always
                                          get round somehow--and I never heard the last of it.
                                   I went back to the town forty years later, and though I had
                                          been away a good many years Jim Hamilton threw up the
                                          story to me. Jim Hamilton was the man who had always
                                          predicted that I would be hanged.
                                   I recalled that prediction to him, but he didn't mind
                                          it; indeed he replied quite coolly: "Well,
                                          you're not dead yet."
                            
                            
                            
                                   MARY MASON
                                   The best women have a streak of stubbornness. I know a gentle
                                          woman who has a daughter as gentle as herself. I greatly
                                          admire both of them, as they are the sort of women I
                                          believe others should accept as models. But John Mason,
                                          husband of the one and father of the other, lately told a
                                          story about them which amused me.
                                   Every morning this family has fried eggs for breakfast; they
                                          prefer eggs cooked in that way rather than soft boiled or
                                          scrambled. The gentle mother beieves fried eggs should be
                                          salted as soon as broken into the pan, while the gentle
                                          daughter believes they should be salted when ready for the
                                          table.
                                   Mary, the gentle daughter, always fried the eggs, and the
                                          husband and father says that every morning for years his
                                          gentle wife said to his gentle daughter as soon as she
                                          broke the eggs into the frying pan: "Mary, did
                                          you salt the eggs?'
                                   And Mary, being truthful, replied that she bad not; and being
                                          obedient proceeded to salt them according to her
                                          mother's notions rather than according to her
                                          own; at the same time getting that sullen look in her eyes
                                          which should never disfigure the face of a gentle
                                          woman.
                                   
                                   The husband and father says he and his wife lately spent the
                                          night at the home of his daughter, now married, and at
                                          breakfast the daughter salted the eggs when she brought
                                          them to the table.
                                   "And," he added, "they were just as
                                          good; though I could see my wife was aching to say
                                          something."
                            
                            
                            
                                   UNCLE JIMMY HASKINS
                                   When there is anything going on in the surrounding country
                                          some of the town men drive out. The habit not only brings
                                          trade but extends our acquaintance.
                                   Last week I drove out to attend the golden wedding of Uncle
                                          Jimmy Haskins. There were a good many children and
                                          grandchildren present, and all the neighbours; and after
                                          dinner Uncle Jimmy and his wife told reminiscences.
                                   Mrs. Haskins remembered little but hard work. It seemed
                                          wonderful to me that a woman should work as hard as she
                                          did, even in the early days, and she made out quite a
                                          case, I thought, against her daughters, her
                                          daughters-in-law and the other women present.
                                   I suppose Uncle Jimmy worked hard too, but he didn't
                                          say much about it. I was struck with the fact that the
                                          most remarkable event he could recall in his history was
                                          that he once killed a squirrel with a rifle after several
                                          other men had fired at it repeatedly. Here was a man
                                          seventy-seven years old, yet he had no other adventure
                                          worth recalling. Uncle Jimmy has five sons, who are
                                          prosperous farmers, and four daughters, who married good
                                          men. He is a man of fair
                                          intelligence and ability, yet he has nothing to boast of
                                          except one lucky shot at a squirrel!
                                   Uncle Jimmy went to work early. I heard him recall that he did
                                          farm work when he was six years old and that his father
                                          used to complain bitterly that the boy had been a burden
                                          until he passed into his seventh year. For seventy-one
                                          years therefore he had been going to bed only to be called
                                          in the morning to go to work, and nothing remarkable has
                                          happened to him except shooting a squirrel.
                                   I have heard it said that every man's life would make
                                          a book if candidly witten, but probably this is a mistake;
                                          certainly Uncle Jimmy's memoirs would be rejected
                                          by a publisher. In his day there were bears and deer and
                                          buffaloes, but he never killed one. He was once young and
                                          rode about looking for adventure, but never found any.
                                   In the early days there were bold and wicked men, but they
                                          never disturbed him. For seventy-odd years he has locked
                                          his doors and fastened his windows at night, but has never
                                          been robbed. In seventy-seven years he has never had an
                                          illness worth recalling. The wind and lightning have
                                          threatened more than three-quarters of a century without
                                          hitting him.
                                   I have been thinking of Uncle Jimmy's humdrum life
                                          and am compelled to confess that so far mine has been much
                                          like it.
                            
                            
                            
                                   GUS SANDERSON
                                   When the railroad decided to extend, Gus Sanderson had a tip
                                          that a town was to be built in a cornfield twenty miles
                                          west to be called Prairie View. So he went to an ignorant
                                          Indian, who didn't know anything, and offered him
                                          thirteen thousand dollars for forty acres adjoining the
                                          proposed town site. The Indian accepted the offer, and
                                          everybody abused Sanderson for cheating a poor Indian.
                                          They said Sanderson having had the benefit of public
                                          schools and civilization and newspapers was an intelligent
                                          and learned man and that therefore he should not have
                                          robbed an ignorant Indian who had never had any
                                          advantages.
                                   For two or three years Sanderson was held up to public scorn
                                          because of the transaction and there was a good deal of
                                          talk about his tainted money. One pastor refused to accept
                                          a donation from Gus because of the transaction with the
                                          Indian, and the pastor was generally praised because he
                                          was high-minded.
                                   But the boom at Prairie View did not develop as was expected.
                                          The land is not now worth half what Sanderson paid for it.
                                          There is now indeed some sympathy for Sanderson and people
                                          say it was a shame for a smart Indian to rob a fool white
                                          man.
                            
                            
                            
                                   TOM HARRISON
                                   Old Tom Harrison, who was very old, very poor and lately
                                          rather weak-minded, died last night. There was not
                                          dissenting voice. We all said, "He's
                                          better off."
                                   Usually in case of a death many say, "It's
                                          too bad." But the decision was unanimous in old
                                          Tom's case.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JUDGE TERRY
                                   When Roscoe Terry, the lawyer, came to town we somehow knew he
                                          expected to be called judge, and so he has been known ever
                                          since. He is quite old now, somewhat deaf and being cared
                                          for by his children. Having long been a widower he has no
                                          wife to talk to and is alone a great deal, so his children
                                          pay the hired girl an extra dollar a week to listen to him
                                          politely while he settles things and criticizes what he
                                          reads. The hired girl is a Swede and doesn't
                                          understand half he is saying. A man doesn't care
                                          to quit expressing his opinions because he is old. The
                                          Swede girl is wise enough not to reply to his arguments,
                                          so he soon settles the questions he discusses and goes off
                                          to read and find something new to be indignant about.
                            
                            
                            
                                   THE WITTWER BOYS
                                   We have in this town a lodge known as the Central Protective
                                          Association. It originated among the farmers to discourage
                                          horse stealing, but nearly all the town men joined as a
                                          means of getting country trade. The meetings of the
                                          association are mainly devoted to oyster suppers in winter
                                          and ice-cream socials in summer and the initiation. The
                                          members do nearly everything to those who join.
                                   The work is supposed to be secret, but a smart country boy can
                                          describe the ceremonies of nearly every lodge in town. So
                                          the Wittwer boys, Doc and Orrie, knew what they were about
                                          when they concluded to become members.
                                   Word went round quietly that the Wittwers were candidates on a
                                          certain night and they were given the full works with a
                                          few extra touches, as the Wittwers were known to be
                                          waggish themselves.
                                   When the exercises were finally over the Witter boys were
                                          called on for speeches in order to have more fun with
                                          them. Doc Wittwer was called on first and said he liked
                                          the order well enough, but that it seemed to him the
                                          Wittwers had been given the worst of it; that his name was
                                          second on the list of candidates, but he was compelled to
                                          wait in the anteroom three
                                          hours before being called out. He also expressed the
                                          opinion that the Wittwers were about as good as some
                                          others; that their notes were as highly regarded at the
                                          bank and their trade as much sought after at the
                                          stores.
                                   Orrie Wittwer also talked--without being called on. He shared
                                          his brother's resentment. Orrie Wittwer was
                                          rather more reasonable than his brother and was finally
                                          pacified by the president, but Doc Wittwer continued to
                                          talk about what he called a raw deal. The president said
                                          he was certain no disrespect had been purposely shown the
                                          Wittwers, but Doc said disrespect had been shown them--and
                                          quite gratuitously, he thought. When the president said
                                          they were now all brothers Doc replied that the president
                                          should have thought of that when the Wittwers were being
                                          mauled by nearly a hundred others. Doc frankly confessed
                                          he was ill-natured and not likely to get rid of it
                                          soon.
                                   Harvey Stone, an old member, finally interrupted and said with
                                          some heat that as the new member did not seem to be
                                          satisfied why didn't he get out. Whereupon Doe
                                          Witter replied that possibly there was a gentleman present
                                          wrho could or would attempt to put him out.
                                   The president wildly waved his arms and demanded order; be
                                          called on all present to remember their pledges, for it
                                          seemed there was not only a gentleman present who thought he could put
                                          Doc Wittwer out but who was actually advancing for that
                                          purpose.
                                   The scene of merriment was thus suddenly changed to one of
                                          terror, for Doc Wittwer put his right hand behind him and
                                          warned Harvey Stone to keep his distance. But as Mr. Stone
                                          did not keep his distance Doc Wittwer pulled a long pistol
                                          and fired. Harvey Stone fell, the lights went out and the
                                          shooting became general.
                                   Clarence Bradford thought he was the first brother to get out
                                          of the ball, but when he reached the street found that
                                          Henry Ward had preceded him, found the city marshal and
                                          was coming back with that official. Harvey Stone, whose
                                          business it was to fire blank cartridges at the floor when
                                          the lights went out, says he hit Tom Hart, who seemed to
                                          be crawling, with a paper wad, and then when he fired in
                                          the air to avoid hitting any other brother hit Sam
                                          Stevens, who seemed to be flying.
                                   It was all joke. The Wittwer boys were getting even, but the
                                          old members did not know it and threaten to file charges
                                          against the new members.
                            
                            
                            
                                   AUNT MAHALA
                                   I heard today of the death of one of the most remarkable women
                                          I ever knew--my Aunt Mahala. This worthy woman spent her
                                          life in visiting round among her relatives. And she was
                                          unusual in this: Before they were ready for her to go at
                                          one house there was clamouring for her at all the others.
                                          The great event at our house when I was a boy was the
                                          arrival of Aunt Mahala, and though she did not have much
                                          herself she always managed to bring something for every
                                          member of the family. The older ones loved her as well as
                                          the children and no one in all of our vast connection ever
                                          tired of her. She always had dates a year ahead.
                                   Aunt MIahala had no rights that she cared to assert and for
                                          that reason she enjoyed more rights than any woman I ever
                                          knew. She was willing to sleep on a pallet on the floor,
                                          but always had the best bed in the house. There was not a
                                          man in all our connection that would not take his team
                                          from the plough during the busy season and go after
                                          her.
                                   Aunt Mahala was a great lover of children. I remember that
                                          when she went to visit at Uncle John's or Aunt
                                          Lib's I heard soon after that there was a new
                                          baby at their house. Aunt Mahala was so fond of children that she always wanted
                                          to be the first to welcome them. If any of the grown
                                          people in the family met with an accident or had a severe
                                          sickness they were never satisfied that everything
                                          possible was being done until Aunt Mahala arrived and
                                          cried softly for a moment beside their bed. Then she would
                                          remove her things and in half an hour the patient would be
                                          much better. Whatever the trouble was, Aunt Mahala knew
                                          what to do. I used to think that whatever respect the
                                          neighbours had for our family was on account of Aunt
                                          Mahala. The neighbours wanted her to visit them, but we
                                          never could spare her.
                                   The letter informing me of her death said she went to bed in
                                          her usual health one night and was found dead in the
                                          morning. That was always Aunt Mahala's way--she
                                          never wanted to make trouble.
                            
                            
                            
                                   MARIE TAYLOR
                                   We began hearing of Marie Taylor's art when she was
                                          seven years old. At that early day she could play a piano
                                          pretty well and many of us were compelled to listen when
                                          we didn't care for it. Not that she
                                          wasn't good--for a child--and from that day to
                                          this we have heard about the place she is entitled to fill
                                          in the musical world.
                                   Old Henry Taylor, her father, never took so much interest in
                                          Marie's art as did his wife, who was almost crazy
                                          on the subject. But old Henry somehow managed to raise
                                          money to pay for her lessons. When her piano teacher gave
                                          a recital we were all expected to buy tickets, because our
                                          town had never before had a prospect of occupying a
                                          position in the public eye, and we knew Marie would play
                                          at least twice herself and once with the teacher.
                                   When Marie was seventeen we began hearing that she really
                                          should have better instruction, as she had outgrown all
                                          the teachers at home; and then came the occasion when
                                          tickets sold at a dollar each. Not many were present for
                                          one cause or another, but Marie got off for the city. When
                                          she came back we were all expected to be interested in the
                                          improvement she had made under Bagalowski, who came home
                                          with her and played at her
                                          concert; and really we couldn't see that he was
                                          very much better than Marie. Indeed, he was reported as
                                          saying that she should go abroad, which she soon did, her
                                          mother going with her.
                                   The going-abroad concert was not much of a success either.
                                          When the Taylors were leaving the hall they were all
                                          ill-natured and old Henry spoke sharply to his wife as
                                          Maria, though we had all been given to understand that
                                          Marie had been named for her mother.
                                   There was considerable sympathy for old Henry Taylor, because
                                          of the manner in which he slaved and saved to pay the
                                          expense of the trip abroad. Doc Filson even went so far as
                                          to say that though most of the girls round town took
                                          lessons they knew when to stop.
                                   At the end of a year old Henry Taylor moved away. We were at
                                          liberty to believe he was going to Paris, where his
                                          daughter was succeeding with her art, but he never said
                                          where he was going.
                                   We found out a few years later. Marsh Edson, who made a trip
                                          to Oklahoma to look at land, ran across them in a little
                                          town there, and Marie was giving lessons, charging fifty
                                          cents an hour because she had studied abroad.
                            
                            
                            
                                   BILL HALL
                                   A man named James T. Oliver, who advertises in the papers that
                                          he will raise money for various unnecessary public
                                          enterprises for a per cent of the collections, lately
                                          appeared here with the avowed purpose of raising ten
                                          thousand dollars in seven days.
                                   Oliver called on Bill Hall and found him busy, but Oliver
                                          impudently demanded that Mr. Hall listen to him. Hall was
                                          angered by this unusual demand, but finally suspended
                                          business as the nervy agent required. Hall listened
                                          patiently while Oliver made his talk and then asked:
                                          "May I now say word?"
                                   Oliver grudgingly consented and Hall said: "In the
                                          first place, I will give you nothing. In the second I want
                                          to tell you that I regard you as the nerviest adventurer I
                                          have encountered in many years. You depend upon your
                                          impudence, of which you have a disgusting supply, to carry
                                          you through; and I wish to add that if you are not out of
                                          this office in two seconds I will give you a whipping you
                                          will long remember. I have been annoyed by adventurers of
                                          your type until I am fighting mad."
                                   "Remember, sir," Oliver said, "that
                                          there are ladies present."
                                   
                                   Oliver has two women helpers and these were with him.
                                   "My remarks refer to them as well as to
                                          you," Bill said. "I am glad they are
                                          present to hear what I have to say."
                                   Oliver replied with extracts from his biggest talk and Bill
                                          hit him. Oliver struck back and Bill wiped the foor with
                                          him in spite of the screams of the lady assistants. Then
                                          Oliver was led to the door\and thrown into the street. He
                                          spent five days in a hospital and says he will sue Bill
                                          for fifty thousand dollars damages.
                                   The local paper in speaking of the affair said:
                                          "Without discussing here the right or wrong of
                                          Mr. Hall's action, it is only fair to say that it
                                          seems to be very popular. Mr. Hall is receiving hundreds
                                          of letters of congratulation."
                                   I don't mind confessing I sent one of those
                                          letters.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JOHN DAVIS
                                   There is no better young man in town than John Davis. He is
                                          polite, reliable anid reads good books. Indeed when he
                                          went on his wedding journey he took a Bible with him.
                                   It was a praiseworthy thing to do, but many people laughed
                                          over the incident. Indeed, some of the young people say
                                          they heard the bride herself laugh about it.
                            
                            
                            
                                   HON. MARTIN HOLBROOK
                                   Ten years ago Martin Holbrook was a member of Congress and has
                                          been proud of it ever since. But people do not remember
                                          his efforts in their behalf. About all they say of his
                                          experience at the Capitol is:
                                   "You wouldn't tink that man had been in
                                          Congress, would you?"
                            
                            
                            
                                   ANS WHITCOMB
                                   When I was a boy thirteen or fourteen years old, Ans Whitcomb,
                                          the tombstone man, asked me to drive out in the country to
                                          see if Squire Newcomb would take a monument they had been
                                          dickering over. It seems the old squire wanted the
                                          monument--if at all--by the twenty-eighth, the anniversary
                                          of his wife's death, and as Ans talked to me on
                                          the fourteenth he had to know about it, as several days
                                          would be required to cut the dove and the lettering. So he
                                          said he would give me a dollar and let me take his horse
                                          and buggy if I would drive out and see.
                                   Squire Newcomb didn't say in so many words that he
                                          wouldn't take the tombstone; he said he would see
                                          Ans about it, or something else that made me believe in
                                          connection with my friendship for Ans and my optimism that
                                          it would be all right.
                                   I didn't like to have Ans waste his dollar or return
                                          from a fruitless errand, so my reply caused Ars to go
                                          ahead and finish the tombstone. I felt a little queer when
                                          I saw him working on it, but I was always too optimistic
                                          and really believed the old squire would take the
                                          tombstone after the design they had talked over was
                                          complete.
                                   
                                   It turned out that Squire Newcomb had actually bought a
                                          tombstone of another agent before I went out there, and I
                                          felt so mean about it that it was a relief when Ana moved
                                          away. I was never able to see him without feeling guilty,
                                          though I was really only optimistic when I deceived
                                          him.
                                   The experience taught me lesson. I cross my t's and
                                          dot my i's now in conversation as well as in
                                          letters. I am neither optimistic nor pessimistic.
                            
                            
                            
                                   MART TOWNE
                                   I once knew a man named Mart Towne, who was wasting away with
                                          illness. Meeting him one day, I suggested a remedy.
                                   "I can't try your suggestion for some
                                          time," he replied in a weak voice, "so
                                          many others are in ahead of you."
                                   The man died before he got round to my remedy. Here was a man
                                          who had had good advice for years, yet he grew thinner
                                          steadily and finally died with a great stock of good
                                          advice on hand he had been unable to try
                            
                            
                            
                                   SARAH BROWNELL
                                   Sarah Brownell lately procured a divorce from her husband and
                                          they had quite a time making charges against each other,
                                          indicating a rough-house continuing several years.
                                   Yesterday I was on the streets and by accident fell in behind
                                          Mrs. Browell and Milt Ward, a well-known old bachelor.
                                   Mrs. Browell was displaying all the womanly arts of
                                          fascination, and the exhbit as interesting to me, when I
                                          remembered some of the testimony in the divorce
                                          proceedings. Mr. Brownell swore among other things that
                                          his wife hit him with a skillet.
                                   But how gentle she was to Milt Ward! How prettily she looked
                                          into his eyes! There was art in her smile--in every
                                          action.
                                   And Milt Ward was as gallant and interested a gentleman as I
                                          have ever seen. Unless he wants to break his resolution
                                          not to marry so long as his mother lives he'd
                                          better quit going with that woman.
                            
                            
                            
                                   TOM MARSH
                                   I suggest that the old saying be changed to
                                          "Everything is fair in war," and leave
                                          love out of it. Cap Wilson, the warrior, says he killed a
                                          man at Gettysburg and maybe several others he
                                          doesn't know about. He is not only forgiven but
                                          there is talk of making him county treasurer.
                                   But it is different with Tom Marsh, the lover. Every one is
                                          picking on him so persistently because of a recent love
                                          affair that instead of talk of electing him to office
                                          there is talk of putting him where the dogs won't
                                          bite him.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JIM SEARLES
                                   When James Hadley Searles first came to town he stopped at the
                                          Pierce House and paid the regular rate, which was two
                                          dollars a day. We heard he was a college graduate and a
                                          lawyer and represented Eastern capital, but in two weeks
                                          he moved to Mrs. Hampton's boarding house and
                                          paid six dollars a week.
                                   At first Mr. Searles wore his best clothes all the time, but
                                          at the end of a couple of months be put on an old suit and
                                          opened a law office of one room in Scully Block. After
                                          that a good many called him Jim and everybody knew he
                                          didn't represent much Eastern capital.
                                   A young fellow named Henry Longfellow Marsh came to visit Jim
                                          the following spring and it was said round the boarding
                                          house that they talked a good deal of their old college
                                          days and of the pranks they used to play. They also sang
                                          several songs nobody else knew.
                                   "I suppose I ought to have a college
                                          education," Bill Hillman, one of the other
                                          boarders, said privately, "but a good many get
                                          along without it."
                                   That comforted others, for Jim made such a specialty of his
                                          college education that learning was rather more unpopular than it would
                                          otherwise have been. He brought the first news of Keats
                                          and Shelley to our town. Some of us had heard of Dante and
                                          tried to read the Divine Comedy, but in wondering why it
                                          was called a comedy gave it up.
                                   Jim put in his letter at the Presbyterian church; he said that
                                          was the thing to do in getting acquainted in a little
                                          town, but a good many knew he was not strict. Indeed, he
                                          hinted that if he cared to he could controvert a good deal
                                          the minister said, and one time, when some of the young
                                          men sent to the city for a bottle of whisky, he gave them
                                          to understand it was no new thing to him. But otherwise he
                                          was guilty of no particular devilment and was well
                                          behaved, though his talk always had the sarcastic tinge
                                          common with highly educated men who do not succeed very
                                          well.
                                   When rather old Jim married Amanda Wheeler, the
                                          school-teacher, who also had a college education, and they
                                          had three children, Matthew, Mark and John, who also felt
                                          their superiority. They kept two cows and, having a
                                          surplus of milk, the children peddled it round the
                                          neighbourhood.
                                   Bart Wherry, the other lawyer, who continued to have most of
                                          the law business, never liked Jim very well and once, when
                                          he found that his wife was taking milk of Searles, said:
                                          "If he ever makes me mad I'll quit
                                          taking milk of him and starve him to death."
                            
                            
                            
                                   SANDY MCPHERSON
                                   Sandy McPherson, the barber, says he charges five dollars for
                                          shaving a dead man because he is compelled to throw away
                                          the razor he uses. But how do we know he throws the razor
                                          away?
                            
                            
                            
                                   JOE BUSH
                                   Joe Bush, who travels for a city house but lives in this town,
                                          had occasion to make a trip of eighteen miles on a Sunday
                                          night. For the purpose he hired an automobile and a
                                          driver.
                                   Along the road the headlight of the machine displayed a number
                                          of Scriptural texts painted in large letters on a
                                          farmer's barn. The driver was not certain about
                                          the road at this point and Joe went in to inquire.
                                   He found the farmer and members of his family engaged in a
                                          religious service and Joe was invited to take part, which
                                          he did. When they engaged in prayer, which the farmer led,
                                          he bluntly criticized Joe for travelling Sunday night.
                                          Then there was singing, and at the end of the second hymn
                                          the farmer invited Joe to lead in prayer.
                                   Joe was brought up in a Christian family and, though he had
                                          never before led in prayer, he was a little mad because of
                                          the manner in which the farmer had talked about him and he
                                          accepted the invitation.
                                   Joe approached the throne of grace so devoutly that the farmer
                                          frequently cried "Amen" to express
                                          approval. But as Joe warmed up he began criticizing the farmer for lack of
                                          charity. He asked the Lord to soften the hearts of
                                          hypocrites and others who thought too much of themselves
                                          and finally closed by expressing the hope that at the last
                                          great day the most unregenerate and impudent might be
                                          saved.
                                   The prayer over, they sang another hymn, and then the farmer
                                          wanted to pray again to answer Joe, but Joe said he was in
                                          a hurry to make a train in the next town and departed
                                          after shaking hands all round.
                            
                            
                            
                                   CLEVE HUNT
                                   Cleve Hunt, a Baptist, is going with Mary Harris, a
                                          Presbyterian. They are engaged, but delay marriage because
                                          of their differences in Christian doctrine. One Sunday
                                          Cleve goes to the Presbyterian church with Mary and the
                                          mean way in which he looks about has attracted attention:
                                          a good many folks are now going to the Presbyterian church
                                          simply to be amused at the way Cleve registers disgust
                                          throughout the services.
                                   The next Sunday the crowd goes to the Baptist church, where
                                          Mary Harris registers disgust and contempt for everything
                                          Baptist Church attendance in the neighbourhood has greatly
                                          increased because of the row.
                            
                            
                            
                                   MICHAEL RAFFERTY
                                   Michael Rafferty, who lives in Chicago, is visiting his
                                          sister, Mrs. Maggie Kelley. Mr. Rafferty finds it dull
                                          here, as there are only women in the house where he is
                                          visiting. They say Mr. Rafferty's yawn, as he
                                          sits on the porch of his sister's home in the
                                          evening, is something artistic as an expression of being
                                          bored.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JOE WELLS
                                   Joe Wells' sister Susan, who married well and is
                                          living in Chicago, is visitig her brother. The other day
                                          one of Ben Hewling's little girls was playing
                                          with the Wells children and saw Susan smoking a cigarette.
                                          The child was greatly shocked and, hurrying home, said to
                                          her mother: "When I go down town I intend to tell
                                          a policeman."
                            
                            
                            
                                   TOM HARPER
                                   I lately met Tom Harper. He has been married only three
                                          months, but I have never seen a more wretched-looking
                                          man.
                                   "What is the matter?" I asked.
                                   He made no reply except to reach in his pocket and hand me a
                                          paper. It was a dentist's bill for seventy-three
                                          dollars for fixing his wife's teeth. There is a
                                          good deal of talk about the incident. Mrs.
                                          Harper's parents knew her teeth needed a good
                                          overhauling when she was at home. Why did they put it off?
                                          Some of the men say Mrs. Harper's father should
                                          pay the bill.
                            
                            
                            
                                   ASBERRY MORTON
                                   The day Asberry Morton was elected to Congress from the Fifth
                                          District there was a good deal of quiet satisfaction all
                                          over town; not that we expected he would be able to do
                                          much for us, but his election was a tribute to an
                                          excellent man we all highly esteemed.
                                   Asberry was not a genius, but a good steady citizen and
                                          neighbour who for a quarter of a century had enjoyed an
                                          excellent reputation. People liked his wife and children,
                                          too, for Asberry had made a success as a husband and
                                          father as well as a merchant and citizen.
                                   His nomination for Congress was a compromise, but his election
                                          was expected, as he stood well all over the district and
                                          his party had a commanding majority.
                                   The evening after the election Tom Harris gave a dinner in
                                          Asberry's honour. Only a few of his more
                                          particular friends were invited. After dinner the husbands
                                          smoked in the dining room, while the wives retired to the
                                          front room, where they talked about whatever interested
                                          them.
                                   Asberry expressed much satisfaction because of the good
                                          friends he had, and of the compliment paid him late in
                                          life. Being the guest of the evening he was permitted to
                                          do most of the talking. This op- pornity caused him to tell a
                                          reminiscence of his early life.
                                   There were four listeners to the story, and Asberry began it
                                          by saying: "Four of the five best friends I have
                                          in the world are present tonight, the fifth being my wife,
                                          and I feel like making the confession to you I made to her
                                          long ago. When I came to this town and opened the Bargain
                                          Store the other merchants said I was a tramp, and should
                                          be taxed so heavily that I would move on without opening
                                          my goods; but I have been here twenty-five years, and
                                          shall probably remain as long as I live. I have a lot in
                                          the cemetery for six, and it happens that I have a wife
                                          and four children. My sons and daughters do not seem to be
                                          wanderers, and all of us will probably be buried here.
                                   "Before I came to this town I lived in a place of
                                          about the same size, and was a storekeeper there, as I
                                          have always been here. I inherited the business from my
                                          father, as I did the house in which I was born. I was
                                          entirely alone in the world, my parents having died in
                                          middle life. I knew every one in the town, and as there
                                          had been no more against my family than there is against
                                          the average of respectable people I was accepted
                                          everywhere and lived the usual life of a fairly worthy and
                                          prosperous young man.
                                   "Up to the time I was twenty-nine I had four love
                                          affairs---that is, I was engaged to that number of girls, but in one way and
                                          another I separated from all of them without more harm
                                          than comes to any good girl who is engaged to be married
                                          to a man if the engagement is broken.
                                   "After my fourth love affair I supposed I would
                                          remain a bachelor. The people did not think of me as a
                                          marrying man, and so when I began calling on Mary Ward at
                                          intervals it was an affair of the kind known as platonic,
                                          a term I have never quite understood. She knew I was
                                          rather old and rather fickle, and apparently did not
                                          expect any special attention, but after going with her two
                                          years we naturally and unconsciously drifted into a
                                          situation where we both accepted marriage as a probability
                                          of the future.
                                   "But in spite of my genuine affection for Mary Ward I
                                          fell in love again.
                                   "It is an uncomfortable confession to make; but in
                                          spite of the fact that I loved Mary Ward sincerely I fell
                                          in love with Mary Howard, a little country girl whose
                                          people traded with me. And I acquired the habit of going
                                          to see her, without any intention of being unfair to any
                                          one. And finally, in the vague way common in love affairs,
                                          she came to understand that I intended to marry her, as I
                                          would have done cheerfully had it not been for Mary
                                          Ward.
                                   "Since I am old and this affair is all in the past I
                                          will confess I loved both of them; both were necessary to
                                          my happiness. I could not give up either.
                                   
                                   "It happened that the two girls did not know each
                                          other, as one lived in town and the other in the country.
                                          So I strolled over to see Mary Ward every Tuesday night,
                                          and drove into the country every Sunday to see Mary
                                          Howard, usually taking supper with the family and
                                          remaining until bedtime, when I would sneak home. I
                                          resolved to break with one or the other, but it disturbed
                                          me to think of either as the wife of another man. Besides,
                                          neither gave me the slightest excuse, not knowing I wanted
                                          it; so I gradually got in a little deeper with both. As a
                                          rule country girls are more jealous than town girls, but
                                          Mary Howard was as gentle as I could wish, as was Mary
                                          Ward. For a wonder, neither ever heard of my perfidy, and
                                          both treated me with the consideration a good woman
                                          lavishes on the man she expects to marry. I was always
                                          rather reserved about my love affairs, and the people did
                                          not make me much trouble. But I appreciated my own
                                          meanness, and worried about it.
                                   "From going to see Mary Ward once a week she somehow
                                          arranged that I should call twice a week. I knew there was
                                          bound to come a clash, but finally went to see Mary Ward
                                          every Friday night, as well as every Tuesday. And in the
                                          same indolent way I found myself at Mary Howard's
                                          home in the country every Wednesday night in addition to
                                          every Sunday night. And I remained late at both places; to
                                          confess I was in need of sleep was to confess all, or con-
                                                 fess lack of
                                          affection, and I felt no lack of that for either.
                                   "Finally neither could understand why I did not wish
                                          to see her at least every other evening, so my health as
                                          well as my conscience became involved. Lack of sleep
                                          caused me to become nervous and I frequently pretended
                                          illness as an excuse to remain at home and secure the
                                          sleep I so much needed. I actually did not look well, and
                                          both Mary Ward and Mary Howard were greatly concerned
                                          about me. The result of it all was I was seized with an
                                          illness, which worried them greatly, as it did me; for I
                                          knew the sword hanging over my head was becoming heavier,
                                          and that the thread suspending it was greatly worn.
                                   "During my illness I received pretty notes from both
                                          of them, and both expressed a wish to see me, to do
                                          something for me. But I hurriedly replied by trusted
                                          messengers that I had every attention, which was the case.
                                          The elderly widow who kept house for me had been in our
                                          family since I was a child, and was very capable and kind.
                                          But I feared that Mary Ward and Mary Howard might come to
                                          see me, and meet.
                                   "This was what actually happened; this is why I am in
                                          this town, a runaway, though there is actually nothing
                                          against me except that I had two love affairs at the same
                                          time. It is fortunate the opposition papers did not hear
                                          about it during the recent cam- paign; I spent many a sleepless
                                          night because of the fear that they might.
                                   "One evening when my illness had been relieved by
                                          rest and sleep, and when I was much better, except my
                                          guilty conscience, the door of my room quietly opened, and
                                          Mary Ward came in. She was all in a tremor, and her
                                          devotion would have pleased me except that I feared Mary
                                          Howard would do the same thing.
                                   "Mary Ward explained that she was so worried that she
                                          could no longer remain away, and that her mother had at
                                          last consented to her coming; she felt sure the people
                                          would not object since they knew we were to be married. So
                                          she took off her hat and said she intended caring for me
                                          until I recovered, expressing the hope that her
                                          determination would meet with my approval.
                                   "You know some things are going to happen before they
                                          happen; I knew Mary Howard was liable to come in, and she
                                          did.
                                   "I had said almost nothing to Mary Ward when Mary
                                          Howard came in, and Miss Ward explained to the strange
                                          woman, with coolness and good breeding, that she was my
                                          promised wife, and felt it her duty to care for me in
                                          spite of conventions.
                                   "I knew there was only one thing for me to do, and I
                                          did that; I went out of my head. And when Mary Ward
                                          appealed to me to verify her statement I pre- tended to be unconscious, and she
                                          called the house-keeper.
                                   "Also the doctor. He was wise old scout, a particular
                                          friend of mine, and when he came understood the situation,
                                          I think I think the housekeeper also suspected the truth,
                                          and what they did to bring me back to consciousness
                                          didn't hurt, nor did they send out a general
                                          alarm.
                                   "Though I had my eyes closed and pretended to be out
                                          of my head I knew what was going on; I knew that Mary
                                          Howard accepted what Mary Ward said as the truth. I knew
                                          that she rose, and with as uch coolness and good breeding
                                          as Mary Ward had shown said I was a family friend; that
                                          she had merely called to inquire how I was, at the request
                                          of her parents. Then she quietly departed.
                                   "Though I realized that I had terribly hurt and
                                          wronged Mary Howard her action was the most agreeable
                                          thing that ever happened to me; my election to Congress
                                          was a trifle compared to what Mary Howard did for me. The
                                          long-expected blow had not fallen; I was free, without
                                          humiliation or difficulty.
                                   "I soon rallied as a result of the restoratives given
                                          me by my friend the doctor, and Mary Ward's
                                          devotion was really beautiful. I appreciated it, too, but
                                          could not forget the greater service Mary Howard had done
                                          me."
                                   After looking at the floor for a time as if in deep reflection Asberry continued:
                                          "I married one of those girls. Which one do you
                                          think I selected?"
                                   We all refused to guess, pretending that we preferred to hear
                                          the end of the story; but I had an opinion, and the others
                                          confessed to me later that they had, and we were all
                                          wrong.
                                   "I very easily persuaded Mary Ward," Asberry
                                          continued, "that though I appreciated her
                                          interest in me it was best for her to return home, as I
                                          was improving; and she did this so quietly that the
                                          incident was never known.
                                   "At first I felt that Mary Howard did not greatly
                                          care for me. But the more I thought of it the more I
                                          appreciated her dignified behaviour and her action in
                                          rescuing me without scandal from a very bad situation. I
                                          soon recovered from my illness, and went to see Mary Ward,
                                          who seemed to have no suspicion whatever of the true
                                          situation. She was indeed more agreeable than ever, and I
                                          loved her more devotedly than before. I suggested marriage
                                          earlier than we had intended, which was agreeable to
                                          her.
                                   "I had feared gossip about the affair, but it never
                                          developed; I was free. But all the time I was thinking of
                                          Mary Howard. How was she taking it? What did her folks
                                          think? Apparently they had no ill will, for they came to
                                          the store as usual, though Mary herself never came.
                                   "It is getting late, and we should join the ladies,
                                                 therefore I will
                                          shorten the story. I wrote Mary a note, asking for an
                                          interview. She did not reply for a week, but at the end of
                                          that time consented to see me. I told her everything as
                                          candidly as I have told you. In addition, I said I could
                                          not get along without her. She confessed the same thing to
                                          me, and I resumed the old situation--going to see Mary
                                          Ward one evening, and Mary Howard the next. Finally I
                                          could think of but one way out of the difficulty, so I
                                          sold out quietly, ran away with one of the girls, and
                                          appeared here. What became of the other? I know no more
                                          than you do. I have avoided news from my old
                                          town."
                                   Asberry stepped into the front room while we were looking at
                                          each other in astonishment, and returned with his
                                          wife.
                                   "Mary," he said to her, "I have
                                          been telling these gentlemen that I love every white hair
                                          in your head, and that you have always been a good wife to
                                          me."
                                   Mary patted her husband's arm gently, and then said
                                          gaily: "Come out and tell the girls
                                          that!"
                                   "And they went away together, to the front room. We
                                          followed, and heard Mary say he was the best man the Lord
                                          ever let live.
                            
                            
                            
                                   BEN BRADFORD
                                   Ben Bradford, known to be a little gay, says the first time he
                                          kissed a woman other than his wife, he felt as sneaking as
                                          he did when he first began buying of Montgomery Ward and
                                          Co. But Ben gradually became hardened, and many say he now
                                          trades with Sears-Roebuck, too.
                            
                            
                            
                                   PETE ROBIDOUX
                                   In the early days Pete Robidoux operated a general store away
                                          out on the frontier, where the railroad ended on the
                                          prairie. Late one night a party of rough men brought a
                                          horse thief into the store, and told Mr. Robidoux they
                                          intended to hang him.
                                   The weather was cold, and after members of the party had dined
                                          on cove oysters, crackers, cheese and jerked buffalo meat,
                                          some one suggested that they warm up a little. Thereupon
                                          whisky was procured, and the entire party began drinking.
                                          The prisoner joined in the festivities and seemed to enjoy
                                          himself as much as any one. By midnight all the members of
                                          the party were drunk and good-natured; but they knew what
                                          they were there for, and told the prisoner that they still
                                          intended to hang him.
                                   The prisoner tried to argue his captors out of the notion, and
                                          they wrangled for an hour with him; they wanted to make
                                          him admit that they were right in their determination to
                                          hang him, but he was stubborn and contended that though he
                                          had taken the horse it really belonged to him, and he
                                          could prove it.
                                   But he failed to prove it to the satisfaction of those
                                          concerned, and at one o'clock in the morning they
                                          all staggered out, carrying a rope, but all very noisy and
                                                 good-natured. In ten
                                          minutes they came back saying they could not find a
                                          telegraph pole suitable for a hanging; they had really
                                          found a pole, but no one could climb it to get the rope
                                          over the arms.
                                   Some one then suggested that the prisoner be shot, as the
                                          night was very cold for a hanging. But no one cared to
                                          shoot him in cold blood, and it was then suggested that
                                          they all take a shot at him at the same time.
                                   This execution could not be arranged, either, so one genius
                                          had a happy thought, and asked the prisoner to shoot
                                          himself. The man who had the happy thought said the
                                          members of the lynching party were all good citizens with
                                          families, and hated to have blood on their hands, which
                                          could be avoided if the prisoner would be reasonable.
                                   Whereupon the prisoner said that much as he admired his new
                                          friends, and respected the majesty of the law, he did not
                                          care to go that far. So they kept on drinking, and arguing
                                          with the prisoner that since he was to lose his life
                                          anyway he might as well be a good fellow and shoot
                                          himself. They said they had fed him, and given him his
                                          turn at the jug every time it was passed, which he
                                          admitted; but he was stubborn and said he could not see
                                          his way clear to oblige them.
                                   By four o'clock in the morning they were all asleep
                                          on the floor of the store, on buffalo robes. When they woke it was eight
                                          o'clock in the morning, and the citizens
                                          stirring; so an hour later the members of the party rode
                                          away, and M. Robidoux never heard what became of the horse
                                          thief. All M. Robidoux knows is that he went away with his
                                          captors, and was still arguing that though he took the
                                          horse it belonged to him, and he could prove it. Also,
                                          that the suggestion that he shoot himself was
                                          unreasonable.
                            
                            
                            
                                   BILL HARMON
                                   During the winter days, when there isn't much to do,
                                          a favourite gathering place for the men is Bill
                                          Harmon's harness shop. It was Bill's
                                          habit to make up a stock of harness in advance for the
                                          spring trade; so, though busy in winter, he was able to
                                          talk while he worked and enjoyed the idlers who made his
                                          shop a meeting place.
                                   And Bill was a good talker and had ideas. He had been
                                          discussing for years the questions of the day, and picking
                                          up a fact here and another there had accumulated a fund of
                                          information that was really unusual. Of all the talkers
                                          who gathered at his shop not one was so good as Bill and
                                          they all quit when he began; a rare tribute, for men
                                          usually interrupt to express their own ideas.
                                   When the bond election came on Cap. Stabler went privately to
                                          Bill and suggested that he deliver a public speech against
                                          the bonds. The railroad had imported a lot of paid
                                          orators, and they were having an influence. Cap. Stabler
                                          and Bill and most of the regulars at the harness shop were
                                          opposed to the bonds;" and Cap. Stabler urged
                                          that Bill make a speech.
                                   "I've heard you talk for years,"
                                          Cap. said to him, "and I know you can sway the people. None of
                                          these paid hirelings of the railroad can equal
                                          you."
                                   Bill said he couldn't talk in public; that he had
                                          thought of it, and cold chills ran all over him.
                                   "Don't expect it of me, Cap.," Bill
                                          said; "I'd like to make a speech and
                                          have an influence in the community; I don't deny
                                          I've often thought of it, but you'll
                                          have to excuse me. If I should attempt to stand before an
                                          audience I should die of fright."
                                   But Cap. Stable kept Bill, and one day he promised. So Cap.
                                          got out bills announcing a cit zens' meeting at
                                          City Hall when the important issues of the day would be
                                          discussed by able speakers.
                                   Nate Somers, who played solo alto in the band, was opposed to
                                          the bonds, too, and one of the regulars at Bill's
                                          shop; and being let into the secret said he believed he
                                          could get the 'band boys to turn out for
                                          nothing.
                                   The night for the speaking came on, and a tremendous crowd was
                                          present; Nate Somers had coaxed the band boys to turn out
                                          for nothing and they played four of the town favourites
                                          outside the ball and two more inside.
                                   Cap. Stabler and Bill went in early, and Bill sat down in the
                                          front row, while Cap. took a seat on the platform; he
                                          thought good deal of his own ability as a talker, so he
                                          often made himself chairman of a meeting without any
                                          action on the part of those present.
                                   
                                   After there had been a round or two of stamping and clapping,
                                          indicating that the people were impatient to hear the able
                                          speakers promised, Cap. Stabler stepped to the front of
                                          the platform and said a crisis in the town's
                                          affairs had arisen, that certain corrupt influences were
                                          showing themselves and that an able speaker was present to
                                          warn the people.
                                   "I refer, fellow citizens," Cap. concluded,
                                          "to a citizen you all know and respect; a
                                          gentleman of intelligence and ability to express his
                                          thoughts; a man whose words are respected by those who
                                          know him. I take pleasure in introducing Colonel William
                                          Peyton Harmon:"
                                   The people all knew Bill Harmon, but they did not know Colonel
                                          William Peyton Harmon; so they cheered and applauded and
                                          were anxious to hear the new man; they had long ago become
                                          tired of the regular town orators and wanted to hear
                                          arguments they had never heard before.
                                   Cap. Stabler noticed that Bill was sitting on the front seat
                                          with his head bowed on his breast, but that he made no
                                          move to take the platform. So Cap. went down and spoke to
                                          him; touched him.
                                   He was dead. scared to death.
                            
                            
                            
                                   DOC ROBINSON
                                   I have noticed that the people take as much delight in
                                          praising a worthless man as they take in abusing a
                                          respectable one. People say Doc Robinson, the town
                                          drunkard, was once a noted surgeon in London; that he was
                                          engaged to a beautiful young lady of New York but gave her
                                          up because his parents objected, and thus went to the
                                          dogs; that he has the best education of any man in town;
                                          that he is a man of fine intellect; that he is a younger
                                          son of a titled family in England, and that when his
                                          brother dies he will become a duke.
                                   I looked Doc up and discovered that the only notable thing
                                          that ever happened in his life was that he attended a
                                          veterinary college in Canada, where he was born on a farm
                                          and where he lived until he came to this country to make
                                          horse liniment, the basis of which, alcohol, he sweetened
                                          and drank, and thus became a drunkard.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JIM SHIELDS
                                   Doc Shields attended the recent Firemen's Ball
                                          without his wife; and, what is more, his wife was at home
                                          sick; so sick, indeed, that the neighbour women were
                                          compelled to go in and sit with her while he husband was
                                          dancing. The women at the ball knew Mrs. Shields had been
                                          very poorly for several months and did not welcome Doc;
                                          but Maria Dunlap, who is old and plain, accepted an
                                          invitation to dance with him.
                                   While they were engaged in a waltz Maria thought it only
                                          polite to inquire about Mrs. Shields, so she asked:
                                          "Mr. Shields, how is your wife?"
                                   Doc is not a real doctor; they call him that because he once
                                          bought a drug store, and failed; and as he whirled in the
                                          dance Doc replied to Maria's question about the
                                          condition of his wife: "She is a very sick woman.
                                          I don't believe she'll live till
                                          morning."
                            
                            
                            
                                   BEN THOMPSON
                                   When Ben Thompson married Alice Hurley he was forty-one years
                                          old, and Alice twenty-nine. The disparity in their ages
                                          caused people to make a complete investigation, and those
                                          were the official figures: 41 and 29. But within a year
                                          people began exaggerating Ben's age upward, and
                                          Alice's downward, and this they have kept up
                                          until I heard this week that Ben was sixty when he
                                          married, and Alice nineteen.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JERRY SHACKELFORD
                                   Many years ago a man named Jerry Shackelford lived in a lonely
                                          house in the woods south of town. His wife asked him one
                                          afternoon to get an armful of oven wood; she was baking
                                          and wanted wood to heat the oven of the cookstove to the
                                          best advantage. But he delayed going, and his wife finally
                                          spoke to him sharply, as her bread was ready to bake.
                                          Jerry was very sensitive, and the reproof made him so mad
                                          that he went out of the house, and for fifteen years
                                          nothing was heard of him.
                                   His wife continued living in the old house, and the neighbours
                                          told the story of the runaway in whispers. They noted that
                                          through every night a light burned in the window, as
                                          though inviting Jerry to return. Mrs. Shackelford loved
                                          her husband as much as wives usually do; the trouble was
                                          that Jerry was more sensitive than most husbands.
                                   One cold blustery night as Mrs. Shackelford sat with her feet
                                          in the oven of the cookstove, to keep them warm, the front
                                          door opened and Jerry walked in carrying an armful of oven
                                          wood, which he deposited in the wood box behind the
                                          cookstove.
                                   Mrs. Shackelford was glad to see her husband and welcomed the
                                          chance to make up, but she thought she should in some way indicate that
                                          his long absence had been unusual and improper, so she
                                          said: "Well, I will say you have been a long time
                                          about it!"
                                   That made Jerry mad again, he was so sensitive; so he went out
                                          of the house again and has never been heard of since.
                            
                            
                            
                                   CAP. HANSEN
                                   When the rebellion broke out Cap. Hansen promptly enlisted and
                                          came back a captain.
                                   Cap. Hansen was such a hard worker that he had no time to
                                          acquire an education, so about all he knew of the classics
                                          was the saying, "Beyond the Alps lies
                                          Italy," though after the war he was occasionally
                                          heard to say, "All quiet along the
                                          Potomac," and probably knew in a general way from
                                          hearing it talked about so much that Byron awoke one
                                          morning and found himself famous.
                                   Cap. Hansen somehow found time to marry and had a large family
                                          of children, all of whom be sent to college as they became
                                          old enough, but continued to work very hard himself. When
                                          he felt tired or discouraged he quoted his favourite
                                          saying, "Beyond the Alps lies Italy,"
                                          and that seemed to make him feel better.
                                   There never was a better man than Cap. Hansen, but people
                                          finally began laughing at him, he worked so hard. They
                                          said he was an old fool, and criticized him because he did
                                          not get something out of his money. After passing seventy
                                          he began to get out of shape; his hands were crooked from
                                          toil and there was a stoop
                                          in his shoulders. It was pitiful to see him hurrying
                                          about, feeble and old.
                                   Cap. Hansen finally crossed the Alps and reached Italy and the
                                          age of seventy-nine. There was a contest over his will, in
                                          which one faction in the family contended that he had been
                                          crazy twelve years; the fact also came out that he had
                                          worked so hard to make money that he had neglected what he
                                          had, and there wasn't a great deal to quarrel
                                          over.
                            
                            
                            
                                   HENRY WULFBURGER
                                   What citizen of this town is most highly spoken of? Heny
                                          Wulfburger, the iceman, who is so polite and capable that
                                          no one can get his customers away from him. He
                                          isn't very good looking and not a fastidious
                                          dresser; buthe delivers ice promptly and puts things back
                                          in the refrigerator as he found them.
                                   Henry Wulfburger ows one of the best homes in town, and they
                                          say he receives a salary so large that nothing is said
                                          about it before the other employés of the ice plant. Who
                                          do you suppose will be manager of the ice plant and the
                                          big iceman of the town in a few years? Everybody knows it
                                          will be Henry Wulfburger.
                                   Henry manages to do some good as he goes along. Nate Salsbury
                                          is his assistant on the ice wagon. Nate comes of very
                                          shiftless native stock, but Henry Wulfburger is making a
                                          man of him. If the people will keep out of it Nate will be
                                          saved; there is some grumbling because Nate gets only six
                                          dollars a week and works long hours; but the young man is
                                          learning more than the ice business. He is learning
                                          industry, politeness, honesty and efficiency from the
                                          example of Henry Wulfurger. Nate will get more wages in
                                          plenty of time; the other iceman will attend to that in
                                          case his present employer neglects it.
                            
                            
                            
                                   GEORGE PENDLETON
                                   George Pendleton came to town twelve years ago and opened a
                                          grocery store. He has always been a selfish man, and the
                                          other storekeepers at first laughed at him; but he turned
                                          out to be capable and they soon began abusing him. He was
                                          a tremendous worker, and instead of joining the local
                                          trust and making just a living he went after business and
                                          made money. Many of the storekeepers were becoming
                                          careless. George Pendleton caused them to straighten up.
                                          There was a gentlemen's agreement among the
                                          merchants, and their prices were too high. George
                                          Pendleton reduced prices and brought trade to town from a
                                          larger area. We had stores about which people grumbled;
                                          now we point to them with pride.
                                   All this good was accomplished by a selfish man who had no
                                          other ambition than to make money. He gave liberally to
                                          every worthy object--really as an advertisement for this
                                          business and to make friends; I have heard him grumble at
                                          some of the hold-ups--but his main object was to make
                                          money. He built a business house, and a good one; his
                                          rivals followed his lead. He built a residence; his rivals
                                          followed him again. He felt the need of better facilities
                                          for doing business, and got them, incidentally benefiting
                                                 the town. He was a
                                          temperate man, and some of his rivals who had been
                                          drinking too much reformed. He was a polite man, and his
                                          rivals, who were a little brusque, recovered.
                                   I know of no man who has actually done more for the town than
                                          George Pendleton.
                            
                            
                            
                                   COLONEL ANDY MILLER
                                   When I went downtown in the morning I heard Colonel Andy
                                          Miller was dead, and everywhere during the day his death
                                          was discussed. Most of the men agreed he was the best
                                          citizen we had; I have heard them say the same thing of
                                          other friends who have died within the year, and there was
                                          a good deal of enthusiasm for a monument over his grave,
                                          to be built by public subscription.
                                   In the evening I went to Colonel Miller's house. Mrs.
                                          Potter was there, and I was glad to hear that I was not
                                          expected to see Mrs. Miller, who was prostrated with
                                          grief.
                                   Three or four other men came in, and we discussed the
                                          colonel's life. All of us remembered some
                                          incident that seemed appropriate, which we told in low
                                          voices. In the room adjoining the one in which we sat was
                                          the body, packed in ice. The dripping of the water was
                                          very disagreeable.
                                   After we had discussed the colonel I noticed that there was a
                                          disposition to discuss the mystery of death. Every one
                                          said something, and we all expressed the sentiment in
                                          about the same way; there did not seem to be anything new
                                          to say on the subject. Most of the callers said they would
                                          willingly stay all night if necessary, but added that they
                                          would rather not if other arrangements could be made, and
                                          gave various excuses. It
                                          turned out that Mrs. Potter intended staying; it was
                                          unnecessary for any of us to remain.
                                   The colonel and Mrs. Potter were not friends during his life,
                                          but she seemed to have charge of the remains. I was told
                                          that she arrived at the house a few minutes before Colonel
                                          Andy's death. Mrs. Potter is usually present when
                                          there is a death in the town, and takes charge of the
                                          funeral. The undertaker goes to her, and she arranges
                                          about the pall bearers. When she is not in the room where
                                          the body lies she is upstairs with members of the family
                                          where few are admitted. If anything is wanted Mrs. Potter
                                          gets it, and if a question is to be decided she decides
                                          it; first consulting with the family, I suppose.
                                   It was an unworthy thought but it occurred to me that Mrs.
                                          Potter enjoyed being there and taking charge of
                                          everything. She is of little importance at any other time,
                                          and disappears from public view after a funeral, but we
                                          all hear of her again as soon as there is another death.
                                          She rarely visits any home until it is generally agreed
                                          that a sickness will prove fatal and her coming nearly
                                          always sets the members of the family to crying; they know
                                          it will not be long before death enters the house. Mrs.
                                          Potter does not like me, but I feel sure that when it is
                                          agreed I cannot live many hours longer the front door will
                                          eppen quietly and Mrs. Potter will come in.
                                   
                                   In a small town most people attend funerals as a mark of
                                          respect, and I nearly always meet Mrs. Potter; she
                                          doesn't seem to like people until after they are
                                          dead. She was married before she came here, but no one
                                          knows what became of her husband. Everybody would like to
                                          know whether she left him or whether he left her or if he
                                          is dead, but we are afraid to ask.
                                   At funerals Mrs. Potter directs who shall enter the first
                                          carriage, who the second, who the third, and so on. After
                                          all is arranged to her satisfaction she enters a carriage
                                          herself, and is the first to arriveat the grave; she must
                                          be there to arrange things. She knows what must be done
                                          with the floral emblems; some are taken back to the house
                                          and others are left at the grave. She remains to see the
                                          grave filled up, all the others driving away as soon as
                                          the coffin is lowered and the services are over.
                                   Colonel Andy Miller was a prominent man, aggressive and
                                          successful, but there was always something about his
                                          family life that didn't suit the women. Though it
                                          was understood that the colonel and his wife
                                          didn't get along, no one knew much about the
                                          particulars. He had a mean way of talking about marriage
                                          that gave notice that he wasn't very well
                                          satisfied with his own, and was a cynic about
                                          women--another mark of a dissatisfied husband. When the
                                          colonel and hs wife were with others he had a sharp way of saying things
                                          directed at her in a distant way; and she seemed timid, as
                                          though fearing he might begin a tirade against her in
                                          public. People who passed the Miller home late at night
                                          told of hearing violent quarrels. Their two daughters were
                                          married and living in a distant state, and very much to
                                          the surprise of every one it was announced that they would
                                          not be able to attend their father's funeral,
                                          owing to illness.
                                   Mrs. Miller had a few friends, women who were not very popular
                                          themselves, and who seemed glad of a chance to get into
                                          the big Miller home, with its lavish furniture. Mrs.
                                          Miller had told these women, and somehow the story gained
                                          circulation, that she had never had any peace except when
                                          the colonel was away in the army. He made money and got
                                          along in the world, but seemed to hate his home because
                                          his wife was in it. When their daughters were married the
                                          Millers made much of the weddings and entertained
                                          lavishly, but Mrs. Miller dressed like the furniture in
                                          the house, the women said, and commented on it when they
                                          returned home. The men accepted the colonel, and he was a
                                          man among men, but somehow the women balked at Mrs.
                                          Miller, but without saying much about it.
                                   At the funeral Mrs. Miller remained upstairs during the
                                          services, with Mrs. Potter. The house was full of women
                                          and the yard full of men, but the absence of any member of the
                                          family in the room where the services were held provoked
                                          the unspoken comment which frequently goes round on
                                          serious occasions. I knew that few women had been upstairs
                                          to see Mrs. Miller, and that these were those who had
                                          themselves been neglected by society.
                                   When we were ready to start for the cemetery Mrs. Potter, who
                                          had charge of everything, waved me into the carriage in
                                          which Mrs. Miller rode.
                                   On the way Mrs. Miller looked steadily out of the carriage
                                          window without speaking; she was going over her life, it
                                          seemed. When we stood beside the grave she didn't
                                          look at it or at the coffin or listen to the service; she
                                          was looking at the hazy distance through her black veil,
                                          trying to decide why Andy and the neighbours
                                          didn't like her.
                                   When we rode slowly home Mrs. Miller was still silent and
                                          still trying to solve her problems. At frequent intervals
                                          she took a long breath in the peculiar way which indicates
                                          a cessation of weeping; she seemed hard and bitter, as
                                          though thinking of what she might say in her defence if
                                          her husband were not dead.
                                   Reaching her house I assisted her to alight, and she staggered
                                          a little as we went up the walk. Mrs. Potter opened the
                                          front door and met her; they disappeared together, and I
                                          returned to my neglected work.
                            
                            
                            
                                   BUD MOFFETT
                                   In the river hills west of town seven out of ten
                                          farmers' wives bake biscuits three times a day.
                                          Bud Moffett, a young farmer from that section, went to the
                                          city to accept a job. But his health soon became poor; in
                                          the course of six months many said he was crazy, and there
                                          was much worry about him in his old neighbourhood when he
                                          returned.
                                   His grandmother after looking at him said: "The
                                          trouble with the poor boy is he has been eating light
                                          bread."
                                   So they gave him hot biscuits three times a day, and he
                                          recovered.
                            
                            
                            
                                   Milt Sayer
                                   People used to say Milt Sayer was naturally mean and that his
                                          father was mean before him. The Sayers have lived here
                                          ever since the town was started and the very old men say
                                          Milt's grandfather never paid any attention to
                                          the city ordinances either. City ordinances are intended
                                          mainly to regulate strangers, anyway, and Milt Sayer took
                                          pleasure in violating them. In fact, that was about the
                                          only pleasure he did take, for he never went anywhere
                                          except to trade for something that would annoy his
                                          neighbours. He once traded for a mule, though he had no
                                          use for it except that it brayed all night and made the
                                          neighbours mad. The neighbours complained to the city
                                          marshal, but he couldn't do anything--at least he
                                          never did. Whenever a citizen had a grievance it was easy
                                          to induce the city council to pass an ordinance to
                                          suppress it though it never did much good.
                                   Most people kept chickens and let them run at large, which was
                                          against a city ordinance, but they mostly kept a mixture
                                          which was mainly inoffensive. Milt Sayer made a specialty
                                          of Langshans. The roosters of this breed almost shake the
                                          earth when they crow and have hoarse voices which are very
                                          disagreeable at midnight and just before day. Milt kept
                                          twice as many roosters as he
                                          needed in a barnyard cluttered up with old wagons and
                                          buggies he never used. in the barn he nearly always had a
                                          pup that cried all night, and the water bonds were
                                          defeated largely because Milt favoured them.
                                   There wasn't a man in town who hadn't
                                          threatened to go to Milt and ask him outright why he was
                                          so mean, but no one ever did. So he drifted along like
                                          other people, except that his wife and children talked
                                          meaner about him. Usually a man's wife and
                                          children suffer a good deal before they talk about him to
                                          the neighbours, but Milt was so notorious that nearly
                                          every time the school children came home they had
                                          something new to tell about Milt they had heard from the
                                          Sayer children. He choked their mother, they said, and
                                          though no marks were ever seen the people liked to repeat
                                          these stories. Milt was the favourite town bad man and
                                          every time people sat on their porches in the evening they
                                          began the gossip by inquiring if he had done anything new
                                          to rouse their indignation. 
                                   Ed Harris used to say Mrs. Sayer could hold up her end in a
                                          row with her husband, though it was the custom to say Milt
                                          was very rough with his wife. Ed said that early one
                                          morning just at daylight he went to the depot to catch
                                          Number 58, the flyer. It didn't stop regularly,
                                          but usually took water at a tank a hundred yards above the
                                          depot, and Ed ran the risk of catching it, as he was anxious to get up to the
                                          county seat early and return home on 38, the accommodation
                                          train. Ed says he heard Milt and his wife quarrelling as
                                          he passed their house.
                                   "And believe me," Ed used to say,
                                          "the madam wasn't getting the worst of
                                          it!"
                                   Because of her trouble with her husband Mrs. Sayer was very
                                          bitter about women not being allowed to vote.
                                   It was known Mrs. Sayer had been to see Lawyer Ege, who, the
                                          people used to say, took divorce cases free for the
                                          pleasure of hearing the particulars first and telling
                                          about them.
                                   The particular meanness that caused Milt's wife
                                          finally to rebel was never known. He had been guilty of so
                                          much that maybe it was an accumulation, but anyway after
                                          Mrs. Sayer had told the women for years that she would not
                                          stand it another moment she actually went to Lawyer Ege
                                          and said she wanted a divorce.
                                   Lawyer Ege acted very mysterious, as though he relied on some
                                          particular evidence he knew about that none of the rest of
                                          us did, but he never told anything we hadn't
                                          heard for years; and when the case actually came up, and a
                                          good many went to the county seat to hear the evidence,
                                          they didn't learn anything new. Mrs. Sayer took
                                          the stand and told the old stories, but Milt
                                          wasn't present-he had told his lawyer not to resist--and
                                          didn't seem to care what his wife told on
                                          him.
                                   They hadn't much to divide; about everything Milt had
                                          was mortgaged to the bank and all Mrs. Sayer got was
                                          enough to take her and the children to some relations she
                                          had back East. In accusing Milt of being stingy people
                                          used to say he was rich, which made the story better, but
                                          he really hadn't anything to speak of. Lawyer Ege
                                          made a complete search, but found little. Mrs. Sayer
                                          always thought she would get a good deal of alimony, and
                                          Lawyer Ege had promised her at least forty dollars a month
                                          to live on. But Lawyer Ege couldn't squeeze blood
                                          out of a turnip and about all Mrs. Sayer actually got was
                                          freedom. She said her relations had always wanted her to
                                          leave him and that she only hesitated because of the
                                          children. Besides, she feared that if she ever left Milt
                                          he would go to the devil.
                                   But Milt didn't miss his family as much as Mrs. Sayer
                                          thought he would. He took some of his meals at the
                                          restaurant, but mainly lived at home. He turned the mule
                                          in on the mortgage, as mules were high that year, and got
                                          rid of his hogs, as he said that living alone he could buy
                                          bacon cheaper than he could raise it. The money he gave
                                          his wife he had raised by increasing the mortgage on his
                                          house and, to the surprise of everybody, he paid the
                                          interest. As he no longer had children he got rid of pups
                                          and one day shot his dogs
                                          because they had eaten his big Langshan roosters.
                                          Altogether Milt improved and was better natured. He was
                                          even known to attend the band concerts at City Park and
                                          once he called on a neighbour in the evening to sit a
                                          while. A few of the neighbour women, knowing he must long
                                          for home cooking, invited him to an occasional meal and he
                                          acted politer than they expected he would.
                                   Two of the older boys came to see their father in course of
                                          time and, to the surprise of everybody, remained with him.
                                          Mrs. Sayer occasionally wrote to her old neighbours asking
                                          if Milt had gone to the devil yet, but he actually seemed
                                          to be travelling the other way. He even went to the banker
                                          and arranged to send his former wife a small allowance. He
                                          wasn't compelled to do this, but said he was
                                          better satisfied to do it.
                                   The improved manners of Milt Sayer actually be came the talk
                                          of the town during one hot-weather period when there was a
                                          lull and porch parties talked of little else that summer.
                                          He had always paid his debts after a fashion, but he
                                          became prompt and an old junk shop he owned started to
                                          make money. There was even a contest between the banks
                                          over his account, and when the State Savings won over the
                                          First there was some criticism of the methods employed by
                                          the winner. One day a man who knew Milt rather better than
                                          the rest of us said to him: "I suppose that now you are single
                                          you'll be taking notice again."
                                   But Milt didn't seem to be amused. He became serious
                                          and said something about his better nature being roused.
                                          People didn't understand that remark for a time,
                                          but admitted it was true. Wherever he went you saw one or
                                          both of his sons and they improved as much as their
                                          father. Both were doing well in school and during the
                                          summer vacation they worked round the junk shop.
                                   It was along in the winter following the summer when Milt was
                                          the town's sensation and about a month after be
                                          said his better nature was roused when he did the most
                                          surprising thing. He arrived one evening on 38, the
                                          accommodation train, accompanied by his former wife, to
                                          whom he had been remarried the day before. About all he
                                          would say in explanation was that he thought he would like
                                          it rather better that way; and after that people dropped
                                          him, except that they watched narrowly to see how the
                                          experiment came out. Some thought they would get along all
                                          right since Milt's better nature had been roused,
                                          but others had their doubts.
                            
                            
                            
                                   WALT WILLIAMS
                                   Will Marsh went into Walt Williams' grocery and
                                          bought a sack of apples. Walt not only helped Bill eat
                                          them but invited every one who came in tohave an apple out
                                          of Bill's sack. Walt has been the victim of
                                          tasters for years, and was getting even.
                            
                            
                            
                                   BELLE DAVISON
                                   The school-teacher, Miss Belle Davison, very gentle, womanly
                                          and popular, reached forty-three without a love affair,
                                          and was a credit to her admirable sex in every way; few
                                          had ever lived in the neighbourhood who were equally
                                          liked.
                                   But one day a scamp of a fellow began paying her attention,
                                          and she became madly infatuated with him; she ran after
                                          him as madly as a girl of seventeen ever chased a
                                          sweetheart; she violated her own rules, one after another,
                                          and the neighbours were shocked.
                                   Not that she actually did anything wrong; the astounding thing
                                          was that she fell violently in love, and was as
                                          sentimental and foolish as a girl. It was pitiful,
                                          tragical; and the scamp upon whom she lavished her
                                          affection didn't appreciate it, but married
                                          another woman. Belle Davison is so thin and unhappy now
                                          that meeting her on the street is as depressing as a
                                          funeral.
                            
                            
                            
                                   ANDREW HACKBARTH
                                   Most of the old-timers came to this county in 1854, whether
                                          land was opened to settlement. Among the number was Andrew
                                          Hackbarth, a likable man, except that he did not get along
                                          with his wife. We heard he had been a member of the
                                          legislature in the older country he came from; and we knew
                                          he was a worker, though the trouble with his wife bothered
                                          him and rendered him quiet.
                                   I never knew what their differences were, though I can attest
                                          Andrew was a very decent man during the many years I saw
                                          him nearly every day. But his wife told the most terrible
                                          tales about Andrew. I 'have been hearing hard
                                          tales about men all my life; Mrs. Hackbarth's
                                          assortment on her husband was the worst of all; there was
                                          no viciousness of which she did not accuse him. He never
                                          said anything in reply, and about all people ever knew was
                                          that, so far as they could see, he was a good man.
                                   Andrew's wife finally left him, going to a distant
                                          state. But she would not give him a divorce, though she
                                          often came back, usually appearing first at the county
                                          seat, where she began some sort of suit against him. Then
                                          she would appear in his neighbourhood, and tell her
                                          stories on Andrew. What pleased her most was to meet him at church or
                                          other public place and tongue-lash him, but Andrew never
                                          said a word; he took it all, and hoped she would go away.
                                          Which she finally did, greatly to the relief of everybody;
                                          but within a few months we would hear again that she was
                                          in the county seat consulting her lawyer.
                                   This kept up until both were old and worn out. Then she died,
                                          and we heard they had a daughter with whom the mother had
                                          been living. Then the daughter commenced annoying Andrew
                                          with suits, as her mother had done; but this was finally
                                          settled by the daughter's coming to live with
                                          Andrew.
                                   The daughter had never married, and was about fifty years old
                                          when she appeared to care for the father in his old age.
                                          Some were suspicious from the first; they said she looked
                                          like her mother, and acted like her. Andrew lived in a
                                          six-room house all on one floor, and the first night the
                                          daughter was there she noticed that Andrew slept with the
                                          window curtain of his bedroom up. The daughter said she
                                          thought it was a peculiar way to do; that she always put
                                          down the curtain when she went to bed.
                                   Andrew patiently explained that he was accustomed to that way
                                          of doing; that he was an old man, and somewhat restless,
                                          and liked to look out at the stars while lying in bed at
                                          night, before going to sleep.
                                   He thought that would satisfy her, but when he awoke next morning his curtain
                                          was down again.
                                   This provoked Andrew, who was honestly trying to get along
                                          with his only remaining relative, as was his duty; so he
                                          said to his daughter that his curtain being up
                                          needn't bother her, she was at liberty to sleep
                                          with her curtain down if she liked, and should be
                                          satisfied. He therefore hoped she would let his curtain
                                          alone.
                                   But she didn't; next morning Andrew's
                                          curtain was down; she had slipped in after her father was
                                          asleep, and lowered it.
                                   The controversy went on month. Every morning Andrew's
                                          curtain was down, and Andrew pleaded with his daughter to
                                          let him have his way in just one thing. He said he had
                                          submitted to a good deal from his womenfolks, and begged
                                          for peace. But the daughter was determined that the
                                          curtain in her father's bedroom should be lowered
                                          at night, and at last he drove her out of the house.
                                   She went to the county seat and promptly began another
                                          lawsuit, which continued so long and was so expensive that
                                          Andrew was ruined. Both have been dead several years; I
                                          bought their quarter at the administrator's sale,
                                          and added it to my land.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JOE STEVENS
                                   We haven't a daily paper in our town, but really
                                          don't greatly miss one, owing to Mr. Stevens, the
                                          milk-man. In summer he delivers morning and evening, and
                                          there is little he doesn't know. Indeed we
                                          sometimes think that, like the editors, he invents things
                                          on dull days, to interest his customers.
                                   And what wonderful experiences Joe Stevens has had! He must
                                          have forty customers, but nothing ever happens to any of
                                          them he can't beat. Ez Hawkins caught two mice in
                                          a little dead-fall trap intended for one, and thought it
                                          very wonderful; but when Mr. Stevens came round with the
                                          milk he didn't pay much attention to the
                                          incident; he said he had caught two mice repeatedly. So Ez
                                          started in to find something Mr. Stevens had never heard
                                          of.
                                   Mr. Stevens moved to town from the country, to retire, but
                                          didn't like idleness so well as he thought he
                                          would, and began selling milk. At first he sold to only a
                                          few, and packed it round, but after a while he was
                                          compelled to get a horse and wagon, and a boy to help
                                          him.
                                   But his wife liked idleness. Her ambition while on the farm
                                          had been to move to town and buy a surrey; and when she
                                          attained these two ambitions she wouldn't go back to
                                          work; she said she had slaved enough.
                                   And the longer she was in retirement the stouter she became;
                                          people noticed, when she was out driving on Sunday, with
                                          the milk-wagon horse attached to the surrey, that she
                                          completely filled the back seat. Mr. Stevens drove, but
                                          was so small that many people didn't notice him
                                          and thought he was busy with the cows.
                                   Ez knew Mrs. Stevens wouldn't help with the cows,
                                          saying she had done her share; so after that when Mr.
                                          Stevens came with the milk Ez began telling about a
                                          wonderful woman who lived over on Mule Creek. She made
                                          nearly five hundred dollars a year, Ez said, with her
                                          chickens and cows, and turned it over to her husband; in
                                          fact, was glad to do it, as she wanted to help.
                                   Ez noticed that Mr. Stevens took an interest in the Mule Creek
                                          woman, so he quit talking about trifling things like
                                          catching two mice in one trap, and told about the woman
                                          who worked hard but always looked well in spite of it, and
                                          was cheerful and content. Mr. Stevens was a great talker,
                                          but was silent when Ez talked about the wonderful Mule
                                          Creek woman; it was almost indelicate, the interest Mr.
                                          Stevens tookin the other woman. The neighbours knew about
                                          Ez's stories, and complained that he kept Mr.
                                          Stevens so long hearing them that they were compelled to
                                          wait for milk, and made breakfast or supper late.
                                   
                                   The men in the neighbourhood were amused over Ez
                                          Hawkins' joke on Mr. Stevens; they, too, had
                                          heard him brag of having had more wonderful experiences in
                                          everything, so some of them used to go over to
                                          Ez' house Sunday morning and wait round until Mr.
                                          Stevens appeared at the kitchen door, when Ez would go out
                                          and tell him more about the Mule Creek woman. In fact,
                                          three of the men in the neighbourhood were in
                                          Ez's kitchen listening when Mr. Stevens finally
                                          confessed defeat.
                                   Ez told Mr. Stevens that the Mule Creek woman's
                                          husband went to town the day before to attend a lodge
                                          gathering, and that his wife told him to have a good time;
                                          not to worry in the least about affairs at the farm. Then
                                          she took the team and her two boys, Ez said, and put up
                                          four tons of hay. When the Mule Creek woman's
                                          husband returned home at night his wife had all the chores
                                          done and was dressed up to welcome her husband. She
                                          expressed the hope that he had enjoyed himself in town,
                                          and had an appetizing lunch ready for him.
                                   This story greatly impressed Mr. Stevens and as he moved away
                                          from the kitchen door he said to Ez, in hearing of the
                                          three men in the kitchen: "Well, that beats my
                                          time."
                            
                            
                            
                                   GLADYS HART
                                   Until six months ago there lived in our neighbourhood a
                                          beautiful creature we all called The Princess behind her
                                          back. Though apparently the daughter of George Hart and
                                          his wife Margaret, The Princess was very superior to her
                                          surroundings. The Hart boys worked, and were of
                                          considerable cash value to their father, but were never
                                          clothed in fine raiment as was their sister Gladys, who
                                          was also sent away to school one term, and spent her time
                                          when at home mainly in practising music lessons.
                                   Every one seemed to take pleasure in doing something for
                                          Gladys Hart; I confess I did, and was ashamed of my
                                          ugliness and worldly habits when in her presence.
                                   We never knew much of the man she married, except that be came
                                          from a fine family and was an unusually capable business
                                          man, considering his age; and I think this came from The
                                          Princess. But we never wondered that he fell in love with
                                          Gladys Hart; she was really beautiful and witty and
                                          superior.
                                   Everybody was expected to give a social function of some kind
                                          for The Princess, and we all did our duty promptly; we
                                          were as humble as George Hart himself when it carne to
                                          giving her a proper send-off; the whole neighbourhood was disturbed during a busy
                                          season.
                                   And what a fuss was made when she was finally married! George
                                          Hart couldn't afford the wedding he gave her, but
                                          there was no other way out; such a beautiful creature just
                                          naturally demanded a big wedding, and George submitted. It
                                          cost George and the boys a year's work at least,
                                          as the caterers and dress-makers came from the city;
                                          nothing came from our local trading point except the
                                          society reporters from the papers, who gave a rich flavour
                                          to everything they wrote of the affair.
                                   And how the women and girls worked in decorating the church!
                                          Busy, hardworking men were negleted, and frequently
                                          prepared their own meals.
                                   The guests marveled a little at the bridegroom's kin;
                                          they didn't live up to the advertising, but the
                                          wedding was finally over and The Princess departed for her
                                          new home, accompanied by the usual foolishness at the
                                          depot.
                                   But the manner in which The Princess dropped out of sight and
                                          mind after her marriage was the strangest thing Ihave ever
                                          heard of. I had supposed Mrs. Hart at least enjoyed the
                                          preparation for the wedding of her daughter, but a
                                          perfectly reliable woman informs me she heard Mrs. Hart
                                          express weariness and say, "Never
                                          again!"
                                   Another perfectly reliable witness testiies that the Hart boys--John, Silas
                                          and William--said in the presence of their father that
                                          they were grateful to the bridegroom for taking The
                                          Princess off their hands; and they were not reproved. I
                                          myself heard George Hart say the day after the wedding, in
                                          presence of his wife, "What a
                                          relief!"
                                   For weeks before the wedding we heard of nothing but The
                                          Princess; after it we heard almost nothing at all of her.
                                          Her parents and neighbours washed their hands of her, as
                                          the Hindus do.
                                   I often think it is a shame we do not all miss The Princess,
                                          and are almost glad to be rid of her; but she is not
                                          entirely blameless; she overloaded us when we
                                          couldn't help ourselves.
                            
                            
                            
                                   MRS. JOE BUEY
                                   Mrs. Joe Buey isn't seen in the stores once a month,
                                          and then she buys only calico and gingham and muslin which
                                          she makes up herself. After she appears on the streets the
                                          people feel uncomfortable for days--she looks so frail,
                                          overworked and wretched. People can't understand
                                          how any one is able to live and look as bad as Mrs. Joe
                                          Buey does. She has worn the same hat summer and winter for
                                          years and her appearance gives one the queer feeling of
                                          hearing a strange noise and thinking maybe it is a ghost.
                                          People know there is no such thing as a ghost, but they
                                          used to think there was no such woman as Mrs. Joe
                                          Buey.
                                   It is generally said Joe treats her better than their children
                                          do. Joe is a teamster and works as steadily as work
                                          offers, but when not otherwise engaged he stays round home
                                          and helps his wife, which the children never do. The
                                          teacher once sent a Buey boy home from school, and next
                                          morning the boy's mother appeared, imploring the
                                          teacher to take him back. She didn't claim her
                                          son had been mistreated; she just asked that he be given
                                          another chance, and was such a picture of woe that the
                                          teacher relented. When her baby is ill she is so poor that
                                          she is compelled to take to
                                          the doctor's office, and Dan Sayer says the most
                                          pitiful sight he ever saw is Mrs. Joe Buey carrying her
                                          sick baby to the cheapest doctor in town, as she knows she
                                          can't get credit anywhere else.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JOHN DAVIS
                                   A travelling man yesterday gave John Davis, the grocer, a
                                          twenty-cent cigar. John Davis has been selling cigars at
                                          his grocery store and smoking twenty years--and a good
                                          cigar made him sick.
                            
                            
                            
                                   TAYLOR WARD
                                   It is generally said certain mean men in this town should be
                                          chased out for the general good; and Taylor Ward says that
                                          if the meanest men should be voted on all of us would get
                                          votes.
                            
                            
                            
                                   MARY RANSOM
                                   Now that I am getting to be an old fellow, I don't
                                          mind telling about my first love affair. When a man is
                                          young he denies he ever had any love affairs. He says he
                                          is still waiting for his ideal. I confess I found mine
                                          years ago. She was a school-teacher named Mary Ransom and
                                          the finest woman I had ever seen. I not only worshipped
                                          her in secret but openly. But a cloud came over our
                                          happiness--a man named Mendenhall. The teacher used to
                                          give me notes to take to Mendenhall, and I was torn
                                          between love and duty; I wanted the money she gave me to
                                          carry the notes, and I hated to do it. I redoubled my
                                          efforts to be nice to her, but Mendenhall won. She quit
                                          teaching school and went away to a distant town to live. I
                                          have never seen her since.
                                   They say a man soon forgets a love affair, but it
                                          isn't true. Last week a tall young man called on
                                          me and said his name was Fred Mendenhall; that his mother
                                          was Mary Ransom, my former school-teacher, and that she
                                          had asked him to call on me. I thought it was rather
                                          indelicate, sending her son in to see me.
                            
                            
                            
                                   CHARLEY GROVER
                                   In my neighbourhood there lives a family named Grover--the
                                          mother and father and five little children. Whether I am
                                          in my room at work or sitting on the porch, the Grover
                                          children are always in evidence, since they are very
                                          active and all through the summer play outdoors barefoot,
                                          which they regard as a great privilege, except that their
                                          mother pesters them about washing their feet at night.
                                   Their mother does not believe in letting her children bother
                                          the neighbours, so they are always at home, and other
                                          children play with them. They are the most natural, human
                                          youngsters I ever knew and, as they are healthy, they are
                                          noisy from the time they get up in the morning until they
                                          go to bed at night. Because of my open windows I know
                                          everything they do or say. WVhen I waken in the morning
                                          the roar in the Grover yard is going full tilt, but I only
                                          smile at it, because I am fond of the Grover children. If
                                          I see company arrive at the Grover home I soon hear one of
                                          the children say to the mother: "Where are we
                                          going to sleep tonight?" And next day I hear one
                                          of the Grover children put this question: "When
                                          are they going home?"
                                   The Grover child that interests me most is Charley, seven years old. One
                                          morning I noticed that Charley was in disgrace. His mother
                                          had dressed him in girl's clothes to punish him.
                                          This kept him in the house for a while, but soon he
                                          didn't mind the girl's dress and played
                                          out in the yard, where he was forbidden to go. Then his
                                          mother took his clothes off and thought that would keep
                                          him in the house, but in a little while he was out playing
                                          with the other children, naked.
                                   By this time I was much interested in Charley's crime
                                          and made bold to go to the fence and ask Mrs. Grover what
                                          Charley had done.
                                   Charley had told a story. I recommended to Mrs. Grover that
                                          she wash Charley's mouth with soapsuds and let it
                                          go at that, but she thought it best to keep Charley in the
                                          house until his father came home, when a family council
                                          would be held and Charley's fate decided.
                                   Mrs. Grover told me of Charley's disgrace. With some
                                          other boys he had gone to a pond in the neighbourhood and
                                          fallen in. When he returned home his mother asked him how
                                          his clothes became wet. And then Charley said he was up at
                                          his Aunt Hannah's and in getting a drink out of
                                          the well bucket had accidentally spilled some on his
                                          clothes.
                                   Charley had been warned not to go to the pond, and I feared it
                                          would go hard with him when his father came home. I have
                                          known Charley's father all his life, and though a
                                          good, steady man now he was tougher as a boy than Charley is. You know how parents
                                          take on about a child who has told a story. We all tell
                                          them. But how we are shocked if cildren are caught at it.
                                          We say great big black man or a policeman will get
                                          them.
                                   I asked Mrs. Grover to put Charley in my charge for half an
                                          hour and, as she knows I like the children, she let me
                                          have him, first putting his sister Magge's dress
                                          on him. Then I led him over to my porch and lectured
                                          him.
                                   "Charley," I said, "I
                                          don't think it very wicked to tell a story, since
                                          I've told more of them probably than any other
                                          man in the world, unless it is your father, who is coming
                                          home presently to whip you. But there is a reason why you
                                          shouldn't tell stories and it is a very important
                                          one. Who told on you?"
                                   "Grandma Grover," the boy replied.
                                   "There you are," I said; "a woman
                                          told on you. And I venture to say that within an hour
                                          after you told this story you were caught."
                                   Charley corrected my figures--he was caught in twenty
                                          minutes.
                                   "That's the reason why you
                                          shouldn't tell stories--you are always caught and
                                          you are always caught promptly. The average with me has
                                          possibly been above twenty minutes, but I have always been
                                          caught. And it is usually the women who tell on me. Women
                                          are more truthful than men and boys and they seem to take special delight
                                          in catching them in stories. I know you didn't
                                          like to worry your mother by acknowledging you had gone to
                                          the pond. Women don't know knee-deep from over
                                          your head.
                                   "You couldn't have been drowned in that pond
                                          if the other boys had thrown you in and sat on you. You
                                          knew that, but your mother didn't, so you should
                                          have told her the truth. You should always behave as well
                                          as possible, since that is really the easiest way, but
                                          above everything else don't tell stories. The
                                          reason I have already explained--you are always caught.
                                          Millions of boys are telling millions of whoppers every
                                          day, but every wretch is caught; if not by his grandmother
                                          then by his sisters; if not by his sisters, then by some
                                          woman in the neighbourhood. Young as you are, you must
                                          have noticed the pleasure your mother, grandmother,
                                          sisters and the neighbour women take in catching you. But
                                          you will never know how a woman can actually enjoy herself
                                          until you marry and your wife begins catching you. Promise
                                          me you will never tell another and I'll do what I
                                          can to get you off. I see your father coming home to
                                          dinner."
                                   The boy promised, and we went over to his father, whose name
                                          is George Washington Grover, but people called him
                                          Wash.
                                   "Wash," I said, "our friend Charley
                                          is in trouble. The women have caught him in a story and
                                          they are waiting for you to whip him. Of course I know you
                                                 never told one, and I
                                          confess I am myself greatly shocked at Charley's
                                          conduct. But he has promised me he will never tell
                                          another, and if you will let him off this time
                                          I'll go on his bond."
                                   "Well," Wash said, "I'll
                                          go in and talk to mamma about it."
                                   And he led the boy away. I knew mamma was all right, and in a
                                          few minutes Charley appeared in his own clothes.
                                   The advice I gave Charley I give you. Don't tell
                                          stories, because the women will always catch you.
                            
                            
                            
                                   THOMAS LANE MONTGOMERY
                                   Bill Hart is a rich man, largely for the reason that many
                                          years ago he got the notion in his head that he wanted
                                          more land.
                                   That was his passion--land. He thought of it during the day,
                                          dreamed of it at night, and went in debt, paying out as
                                          fast as he could; and now he is rich. Bill's
                                          neighbour, Thomas Lane Montgomery, also had an ambition
                                          many years ago. It was to print a book of poetry. He
                                          finally succeeded, but his book was not profitable. A man
                                          who bought land in the early days could not avoid becoming
                                          rich, but there is no possibility of a man making money by
                                          publishing a book of poetry.
                            
                            
                            
                                   OLD GEORGE BENNETT
                                   Old George Beonett, who had been a local character for years,
                                          was found dead this morning in a wretched old house where
                                          he has lived alone for a long time.
                                   He had long been separated from his wife and she had made him
                                          a good deal of trouble, owing to some flaw in their
                                          settlement. She lived in Ohio with their only daughter,
                                          and every little while appeared here and started a new
                                          suit of some kind against him. And in addition she made
                                          the most terrible charges against him, which the
                                          neighbours repeated, though they themselves knew nothing
                                          against the man. He has never been burden to any one.
                                          Somehow he has managed to get along. I frequently met him
                                          hobbling to and from the shop where he worked at his
                                          trade. I inquired among his associates and they all spoke
                                          well of him. They gave him work when he was able to do it
                                          and said be was a good workman. For two or three years he
                                          had been aging rapidly and occasionally been ill. His wife
                                          died year ago, and old George had had peace since then,
                                          but with it he had illness, old age and poverty.
                                   But he did not want for anything during his last illness. Six
                                          months ago his daughter, who lives in Ohio, came to see him. When she
                                          walked into his wretched home I heard he said:
                                          "Well, Mary, here's where your father
                                          lives."
                                   Just that--no complaint of neglect. And his daughter burst out
                                          crying. She had been hearing from her mother that he was
                                          rich and would do nothing for them because of
                                          meanness.
                                   His daughter was not well off herself, but she did a great
                                          deal to make her father more comfortable. And after she
                                          went away a number of us sent him all sorts of things and
                                          said they came from his daughter Mary. He had become
                                          almost blind lately and I pretended to read letters to him
                                          from his daughter enclosing money in my care and making
                                          suggestions for his comfort. The neighbour men did it, but
                                          old George will never know. And the kindness of his
                                          daughter Mary always pleased him. The women said they
                                          supposed the old wretch should be taken care of in spite
                                          of his meanness, but the men contributed without comment
                                          of any kind, except that they had known him many years and
                                          knew no harm in him.
                                   I shall always think less of gossip because of my acquaintance
                                          with old George Bennett.
                            
                            
                            
                                   GLEN BARKER
                                   Something must be done about the band. For four years it has
                                          been practising twice week at the school-house, and at
                                          least that often Glen Barker has taken up a collection to
                                          pay for new horns, new uniforms, new drums and so on.
                                   Glen Barker doesn't play in the band. He is the
                                          manager and devotes a good deal of time to the position.
                                          He never meets a citizen that he doesn't talk
                                          band finances and intimate very broadly that the town has
                                          no pride and no enterprise. He says the band plays in
                                          other neighbourhoods and advertises us. His favourite
                                          expression is that the band has put this town on the
                                          map.
                                   "What?" the manager screams to all of us
                                          with pathos in his voice. "Let the band go to
                                          pieces?"
                                   Nearly every citizen is a craven coward, he has been abused so
                                          much for not doing more for the band; though all of us
                                          have done as much as we could afford to keep the
                                          organization together.
                                   Last week the band played for the grocers' picnic and
                                          those present say its playing reminded them of a
                                          charivari. Instead of advertising us it causes us to be
                                          made fun of. We have long feared that the band
                                          didn't play very well, but it seems it
                                          can't play at all. Glen Barker, the manager, said to one critic:
                                          "Why, our band has twenty-five men! Mighty few
                                          country bands have that many."
                                   To which the critic replied: "The larger a band like
                                          yours the worse it is. It wouldn't be near so bad
                                          if you had only seven or eight members."
                                   And how Glen Barker, the manager, has pleaded with us to make
                                          one more effort to keep the band up to its full membership
                                          of twenty-five!
                                   So wemust do something about the band; and I am of the opinion
                                          that the calamity long dreaded by Glen Barker, the
                                          manager, is imminent.
                            
                            
                            
                                   HARVEY KING
                                   Harvey King is hopelessly ruined at the age of thirty-six,
                                          though he comes of an excellent family and had every
                                          opportunity to become a useful and successful man. He
                                          attended school twelve years, but belonged to mandolin
                                          clubs and the school fraternities and wasted so much time
                                          that he would have been better off had he been learning a
                                          trade.
                                   Soon after he became of age he married a good girl and was
                                          placed in charge of a profitable business through the
                                          influence of relatives, but he soon ruined it by neglect.
                                          He was given another chance, but this time he not only
                                          ruined the business by neglect but overdrew his account
                                          and was only saved from disgrace by his relations raising
                                          a considerable amount of money.
                                   This has been his history ever since. He has been given
                                          opportunity after opportunity and neglected them all.
                                   Had this young man been brought up strictly as a boy he would
                                          have become a useful man, as his father was. But he was
                                          reared in the shiftless manner too common in this town and
                                          his ruin is the result.
                                   He had a very much better chance than the average and has made
                                          a failure because he was not properly controlled as a child. He did
                                          nothing until he was almost of age, and depended on his
                                          father. Finally his father died, and the modest fortune he
                                          left was soon dissipated under the management of an
                                          indulgent mother.
                                   Harvey is bitter, but he has not been the victim of the
                                          slightest injustice. He has not lacked the widest liberty
                                          and opportunity. Indeed he was born with a golden spoon in
                                          his mouth in a golden age. He was kindly treated--too
                                          kindly treated. He had the advantage of good schools and a
                                          good home. He is a wreck today because he was not properly
                                          brought up as a child.
                            
                            
                            
                                   VIC WALKER
                                   It was lately decided that Vic Walker would be better off in
                                          the insane asylum. I happened to be in the court room when
                                          he was brought in and first realized that people thought
                                          him crazy. I never saw quite so much astonishment as he
                                          displayed when told that the charge against him was
                                          insanity.
                                   "What?" he indignantly said. "Me
                                          crazy? Why, I know more than the rest of
                                          you!"
                                   I suppose we all have that notion--more or less.
                            
                            
                            
                                   GEORGE COLEMAN
                                   A committee of farmers from the Deer Creek neighbourhood
                                          lately investigated the city scales. The farmers have been
                                          noticing for some time that the city scales gave a little
                                          better result when they had a load of hogs to sell than
                                          the scales used by the buyer, so they had an investigation
                                          in which they invited George Coleman, the mayor, to
                                          assist.
                                   But it turned out all right. The members of the committee were
                                          fair and reported unanimously that the difference was
                                          probably due to optimism.
                                   George Coleman says the man who operates the city scales has
                                          no interest in a load of hogs except that he hopes the
                                          owner will get as much as possible for it. So he is
                                          liberal in giving his figures; he gives the farmer shade
                                          the better of it, so far as he can.
                                   Same way when the farmer returns with his empty wagon. The
                                          city scales man makes the wagon weigh as little as
                                          possible, since it costs him nothing to be a good
                                          fellow.
                                   But it is different, George Coleman says, with the man who
                                          buys the hogs. He wants the load to weigh as little as
                                          possible and the empty wagon to weigh as much as possible,
                                          and by the time optimism has worked four times on one load
                                          of hogs there is a difference in weight that is remarked
                                          by the seller when he compares the two tickets.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JOE WARD
                                   I was lately making a little automobile journey and met Joe
                                          Ward, a high-priced man. We were passing through the town
                                          of Centerville and stopped a moment to inquire the road to
                                          Fairview.
                                   It happened that the man we addressed was Joe Ward himself,
                                          who said he was just about to leave for Fairview and would
                                          show us the way if we would give him a ride.
                                   So he sat beside the driver and turned round and told us about
                                          the farms we passed. He knew every farmer on the way; how
                                          his crops were turning out and many other interesting
                                          facts, for this man was a clerk in the New York Store in
                                          Centerville and had been so employed nine years.
                                   When we came to a crossroad he would say "Straight
                                          ahead" or "Turn to the right"
                                          to the driver and then tell us something of interest about
                                          his work in the New York Store. It seemed he was a very
                                          popular clerk; so popular, indeed, that the proprietor of
                                          the Boston Store, the principal opposition, had long
                                          wanted him.
                                   "But I said to him frankly," Joe Ward
                                          explained, "if you get me you'll have to
                                          pay a man's wages. I'm no cheap skate. I
                                          was born over on Cow Creek
                                          and no citizen of that neighbourhood would think of going
                                          to Centerville without trading with me."
                                   "Here," I thought, "is a very
                                          high-priced man."
                                   I began wondering how much would induce him to leave the New
                                          York Store. And he proceeded to tell us--he
                                          couldn't keep a secret.
                                   Besides the pull I have on Cow Creek, my grandfather is the
                                          leading farmer out the Fairview way and everybody knows I
                                          control the best trade round Fairview. So I says to
                                          Persinger, of the Boston Store: 'If you get me
                                          you'll get the best, but you'll have to
                                          pay me. I'm human like everybody else; if you pay
                                          me I'll work for you and do you all the good I
                                          can, but we might as well understand each other first as
                                          last--if you get me you'll have to pay me.
                                          I'm no amateur. If you get me you'll
                                          have to pay me twelve dollars a
                                          week.'"
                                   But it developed before we reached the next town that
                                          Persinger, of the opposition store, wouldn't
                                          stand an innovation like that, so Joe Ward got out at
                                          Fairview and said he was going back next morning to resume
                                          his work at the New York Store.
                            
                            
                            
                                   EMANUEL STRONG
                                   Emanuel Strong is sick and probably won't get well.
                                          The thing that worries him most is his poverty. He has
                                          always made enough, but lived up everything as he went
                                          along and at his death his family will have nothing. He
                                          has five children to school and dress, and Emanuel and his
                                          wife have been so much devoted to them that they have not
                                          had much themselves. Three years ago there was an
                                          excellent opportunity for Emanuel to buy a business o fhis
                                          own, but he had no ready money and a banker picked up the
                                          bargain
                                   . When I called on Emanuel lately to see how he was getting
                                          along his wife surprised me by saying she had ruined her
                                          husband by living too well and too carelessly. Emanuel
                                          always wanted to save, she said, but she paid too much
                                          heed to the demands of the children and everything they
                                          earned slipped away. I never before heard a wife make a
                                          similar statement.
                            
                            
                            
                                   ED MARSH
                                   Ed Marsh married Maggie Woolson three weeks ago, and they went
                                          to live with Ed's mother, who is a widow and
                                          lives alone. This week Ed and his wife went to a home of
                                          their own. Yesterday I met Mrs. Marsh, and remarked that
                                          Ed and his wife had left her.
                                   "Yes," she said, "they thought they
                                          would be better satisfied in a home of their
                                          own." Then she thought awhile and added:
                                          "And me, too."
                            
                            
                            
                                   MRS. MARK THOMPSON
                                   What eventless lives most women lead! Mrs. Mark Thompson
                                          confesses that this was the only unusual thing that every
                                          happened in her life: When a girl of sixteen she lived in
                                          a town in Iowa, and has never yet become entirely
                                          reconciled to a farm. In going to take her music lesson
                                          she was compelled to pass a boarding house where a number
                                          of students lived, and, as she passed, the students used
                                          to tap on the window. But she never once looked up.
                                   Mark Thompson cannot understand yet why his wife did not
                                          travel another street when on her way to take her music
                                          lesson. Possibly the good woman enjoyed her little
                                          adventure, and the consciousness that nothing could make
                                          her look up when the bold young men tapped on the
                                          window.
                            
                            
                            
                                   W. T. HAWLEY
                                   Some men complain about the queerest things. W. T. Hawley, of
                                          this neighbourhood, does not like to be called Will; he
                                          says it sounds effeminate. Nor does he like to be called
                                          Bill. He says that sounds too rough.
                            
                            
                            
                                   LAWYER BAILEY
                                   Some old maids do not seem to mind it, while others never get
                                          over being touchy. A single woman was lately grossly
                                          offended by Lawyer Bailey. She sold a piece of woodland to
                                          John Hart, and Lawyer Bailey drew up the papers in which
                                          he recited that the seller was single, as required by law.
                                          When she saw this she was very angry. "Everybody
                                          knows that," she said; "why bring up
                                          that old joke in a deed?"
                            
                            
                            
                                   GEORGE LAWRENCE
                                   Husbands have different ways of asserting themselves. Some
                                          storm round and talk rough, usually about dry-goods bills,
                                          for there never was a husband who could understand why his
                                          wife needs so much voile. Probably most husbands jaw at
                                          their wives in private, but a few discuss their grievances
                                          at table in presence of the children. When a wife says to
                                          this sort of husband: "S-sh! It is no subject to
                                          discuss before the children," he will reply:
                                          "I don't care if they do
                                          hear."
                                   But George Lawrence regulates his wife very quietly. When
                                          anything goes wrong at his house he never says a word, but
                                          his right eyebrow goes up like a tent. After his eyebrow
                                          has been up a day or two, he takes it down again, matters
                                          having been regulated to his satisfaction.
                            
                            
                            
                                   MRS. JOHN HART
                                   Mrs. John Hart's sister-in-law, Mrs. Mary Cain, of
                                          Indiana, came to visit her, and Mrs. Hart and Mrs. Cain
                                          went down town one pleasant afternoon to look at the
                                          stores. On the street, Mrs. Hart met a town woman she
                                          knows and talked to her quite a while. Mrs. Hart loves to
                                          talk, and the other woman is also noted for a perfect
                                          stream of conversation. Finally Mrs. Hart remembered her
                                          sister-in-law and looked round, with a view of introducing
                                          her, but she had gone! Mrs. Cain, it seems, became angry
                                          because Mrs. Hart did not introduce her to the town woman
                                          and, going to the station, took the first train home. Mrs.
                                          Hart looked all over town for her sister-in-law and was
                                          much distressed, but her husband doesn't mind it.
                                          He says his sister always was the touchiest thing that
                                          ever lived, and is rather enjoying his wife's
                                          efforts to make up.
                            
                            
                            
                                   GEORGE HART
                                   George Hart was loafing in his kitchen during a recent rainy
                                          day, when his daughter Mary said:
                                          "Mother's bread is ready to go in the
                                          oven." "Well" Mr. Hart asked
                                          her, "why don't you put it in?"
                                          And then the daughter laughed at him. "No woman
                                          ever permitted another woman to decide when her bread was
                                          ready to go in the oven." This amused George and
                                          he called upstairs to his wife: "Mary says your
                                          bread is ready to go in the oven. Shall she put it
                                          in?" "In just a minute," his
                                          wife replied. This amused Mr. Hart more than ever, and he
                                          watched developments. In five minutes his wife came
                                          downstairs, looked at the bread critically and
                                          didn't put it in the oven for half an hour.
                                          "It's lucky," he said to his
                                          daughter afterward, "that we
                                          waited."
                            
                            
                            
                                   OLD MR. NEAL
                                   People probably live as long as they ever did. I believe old
                                          Mr. Neal is as old as Methuselah--if he would admit
                                          it.
                            
                            
                            
                                   BILL ALVORD
                                   Every two or three years Bill Alvord returns from the city to
                                          permit us to shake his hand and be proud of him because he
                                          has a job paying eighty-five dollars a month. But
                                          we're not so glad to see Bill as he thinks. After
                                          people haven't seen a man for three or four years
                                          they don't care if they never see him again.
                            
                            
                            
                                   MARTHA WENDELL
                                   Being an only child, Martha Wendell was notoriously spoiled by
                                          her parents. She lately married Tom Mason, and as Tom
                                          comes of an old-fashioned family where the children were
                                          compelled to mind he refused to have a spoiled wife, so he
                                          insisted on certain things and his wife carried them out.
                                          But she did nothing a wife should not have done. Indeed
                                          she became an object lesson to shiftless young married
                                          women, since she was useful, sensible and a good wife and
                                          home maker.
                                   But I wish you could have heard the fuss the neighbour women
                                          made! They said Tom Mason was a slave driver, though he
                                          asked nothing of his wife she should not have done, and
                                          she confessed to me only lately that she loves her husband
                                          and is happy. The bride's own mother says her
                                          daughter was spoiled and that her husband has made a woman
                                          of her. But the neighbours are not satisfied.
                            
                            
                            
                                   CHRIS HALLECK
                                   The women won't believe it but I once knew a widower
                                          named Chris Halleck who didn't like to marry the
                                          second time. He did it, but the day of the wedding he
                                          looked as though he had been called upon to attend his own
                                          funeral. He loved his first wife, but something caused him
                                          to marry again. Maybe it was the fact that he had two
                                          little girls he could not properly care for. He tried
                                          housekeepers, but couldn't get on with them and
                                          finally began going with another woman. He was married one
                                          evening without his little daughters knowing it. Then he
                                          returned home and spent the night with them. For hours he
                                          tried to tell them, and was afraid. But along toward
                                          morning he screwed up his courage and told them, and they
                                          clung to him and sobbed and the father sobbed with
                                          them.
                                   I don't know that a man ever died of a broken
                                          heart--possibly no woman ever did either--but Chris
                                          Halleck died of something very much like it. His marriage
                                          proved to be a mistake. His second wife wasn't
                                          kind to his little girls and Chris couldn't stand
                                          that.
                            
                            
                            
                                   JOE ALLEN
                                   I celebrated my nineteenth birthday (said Joe Allen) by
                                          enlisting in the First Vermont cavalry. We were in the
                                          Shenandoah valley, under Shields, in the spring of 1862,
                                          but later were merged into Pope's army, and
                                          suffered defeat with him at the second battle of Bull
                                          Run.
                                   After varying experiences as a soldier, which included
                                          Fredericksburg, one day we started to join
                                          Meade's army at Gettysburg. My impression is that
                                          we marched thirty miles beyond Gettysburg, and then
                                          marched back again, following Hampton's cavalry.
                                          There was a general impression among the men that a big
                                          fight was to take place soon, but we did not know
                                          where.
                                   Our corps approached Gettysburg on three different roads. I
                                          was in the middle column, and the first intimation I had
                                          of fighting was encountering a field hospital, when there
                                          were two or three hundred wounded. We arrived on the
                                          battlefield in the evening of the second day's
                                          fighting, and it happened that I never saw the town of
                                          Gettysburg at all.
                                   We were at once moved around to the right wing of
                                          Meade's army, and, when we arrived there, struck
                                          Lee's left wing. There was a fight lasting until
                                          11 o'clock at
                                          night, when the Confederates retired. Then we were moved
                                          to the extreme left of our army, a distance of twelve
                                          miles, arriving about day-break, just as the third
                                          day's fighting was beginning. We were immediately
                                          ordered to charge, and carry a line of hills, which we
                                          did, and took up a position in advance of our main line.
                                          We remained there skirmishing until four o'clock
                                          in the afternoon, when word was passed that there was to
                                          be a charge.
                                   Little Round Top was almost behind us, and we charged away
                                          from it. There was a Texas regiment in front of us, lying
                                          down behind a stone fence, and we charged towards it,
                                          accompanied by three or four regiments of infantry. The
                                          firing was terrifc, and the infantry wavered, causing a
                                          delay of the cavalry. We started at almost the same time
                                          that Pickett charged, and probably our charge was to draw
                                          off as many of the enemy as possible from the attack on
                                          Little Round Top.
                                   During the delay I have spoken of, and while the First Vermont
                                          cavalry was left almost alone in an exposed position,
                                          Kilpatrick, the division commander, rode up, and had some
                                          sharp words with Farnsworth, the brigade commander, who
                                          was leading us. I was close to them, and beard what was
                                          said; Farnsworth protested against the hopelessness of the
                                          charge, saying the First Vermont had been cut to pieces
                                          already, and that the men should not be sacrificed. Farns-
                                                 worth said he would
                                          lead the charge, but that Kilpatrick must take the
                                          responsibility.
                                   And then came the order: "Forward!"
                                   We rode at full gallop toward the stone wall behind which the
                                          Texas regiment was lying. The Texans had ceased firing,
                                          and we knew they were waiting to pick us off at closer
                                          range. Our men tried to set up a cheer as we rode toward
                                          the fence at a furious gallop, but we could not do it: we
                                          were so wrought up from expecting the volley at short
                                          range.
                                   I saw the first man who fired: a young fellow on the right,
                                          and I heard an officer curse him for firing too soon. A
                                          second later came the volley, but nearly every bullet went
                                          over our heads, as we were charging up hill. Then there
                                          was a cloud of smoke, and we came to a halt within a few
                                          feet of the stone fence, while some of our men in advance
                                          tore it down. It is a wonder we were not all killed, but
                                          the smoke was so thick that the enemy could not take
                                          accurate aim.
                                   Our men had only revolvers, and it seemed to me there were
                                          twenty musket shots to our one. I fired five times at a
                                          bunch of infantrymen ahead of me, but I do not know that I
                                          hit any of them. Finally I saw some of our men urging
                                          their horses through an opening in the stone wall, and
                                          followed.
                                   In five minutes we lost sixty-five out of 312 men. Every time
                                          a man near me was hit, I could hear the pat of the bullet.
                                          I saw several of my companions cringe and start when hit, and a
                                          frightened look came into their faces. A young fellow I
                                          had know all my life was struck, and he was riding so
                                          close to me that he fell over on my horse's neck.
                                          I straightened him up in his saddle, and told him to hold
                                          on as long as he could, but he soon fell off on the other
                                          side. His place in the ranks was on my right, and his
                                          horse remained at my side throughout the charge.
                                   I had a pistol and a sabre, and fired the pistol as rapidly as
                                          I could, but I doubt if we disabled a dozen of the enemy
                                          altogether. They stood behind rocks and trees, and fired
                                          at us with deliberation and care. I chased one fellow who
                                          appeared in front of me, intending to cut him down with my
                                          sabre, but he jumped behind a tree, and I hurried on to
                                          join my companions. As I did so, I saw the man spring from
                                          behind the tree, and fire at me. There was the greatest
                                          confusion, but I heard his shot, and the thud of the
                                          bullet when it struck; he had fired at me, and struck my
                                          horse in the neck. The horse was a big bay called
                                          "Abe," in honour of the president; but
                                          he kept on going, and I supposed the wound was not
                                          serious, although it bled freely.
                                   We were gone an hour on that charge; we had passed entirely
                                          through the enemy's lines, and were compelled to
                                          cut through again to reach our own. I could liken it to
                                          nothing except getting into it hornets' nest.
                                   
                                   It was while we were in this situation, riding at full gallop,
                                          that some one told me that General Farsworth had been
                                          killed.
                                   We could only locate the Confederate lines by puffs of smoke.
                                          A clump of trees ahead of us would look quiet and peaceful
                                          until we came opposite, when out would come puffs of
                                          smoke, and we could hear the whistle of the bullets. A
                                          friend of mine named Marv. Mason, who rode ahead of me,
                                          had his horse shot under him. The horse fell dead, but
                                          Marv. went over its head, and struck on his feet. He did
                                          not stop an instant, but kept on with the regiment on foot
                                          until he caught a horse, which he mounted, and rode safely
                                          into our lines.
                                   Somewhere during the charge, a man rode by me with his leg
                                          shot off by a cannon ball. Just above the stump some one
                                          had tied the sleeve of a coat, to stop the bleeding. I
                                          think seeing this man, with his pale, frightened face, is
                                          my most distinct recollection of Gettysburg. I could not
                                          tell whether the man was a Federal or Confederate. There
                                          were two men with him who seemed to be his friends, but
                                          the friends appeared to be as frightened as the wounded
                                          man, and riding as madly toward safety.
                                   At last we reached our old position, when we heard that
                                          Pickett's charge had failed. We remained quiet
                                          until dark; everything indicating that the battle was
                                          over, when we were ordered to dismount in a meadow, and told to get some
                                          sleep. The heaviest rain I ever experienced was falling; I
                                          saw soldiers soundly sleeping that night who were
                                          half-covered with running water.
                                   At four o'clock the next morning we were routed out,
                                          and ordered to saddle at once. Then I discovered that my
                                          horse was too badly wounded to go; he was very stiff and
                                          could not get up. He was great favourite in my company,
                                          and there were many expressions of regret when I was
                                          compelled to leave old "Abe" behind. But
                                          there were plenty of other horses without riders, as a
                                          result of the charge of the day before, and we were soon
                                          on the move. When we rode away, old Abe was lying down,
                                          and I had no idea he would ever get up again.
                                   Private soldiers always manage to find out what is going on.
                                          We knew we were in pursuit of Longstreet's corps
                                          train, and hurried all day toward Emmetsburg, without
                                          catching sight of the enemy. In the evening we halted for
                                          a few hours; and while I was boiling coffee, I heard a
                                          cheer from some of our men, and who should come staggering
                                          into camp but old Abe! We gathered around him, and some
                                          fed him crackers, while others bathed his neck.
                                   When the bugle sounded to fall in, old Abe tottered to his
                                          place in the column, but we soon started on the keen run,
                                          and left him behind. I glanced back and saw him standing,
                                          looking after us; I looked again, and he was following us slowly, and with
                                          difficulty.
                                   In an hour, just after dark, we struck the rear guard of
                                          Longstreet's corps train, as it was starting up a
                                          mountain. Three Michigan regiments dismounted, and crowded
                                          along the narrow road. Our regiment was next to the
                                          dismounted men, and we were to charge through and stampede
                                          the train as soon as we found an opening.
                                   I never saw such a display of fireworks as I saw all through
                                          that night. Our men toiled up the mountain, firing as fast
                                          as they could, and the Confederates fell back, stubbornly
                                          resisting our advance. Just at daybreak we reached a level
                                          spot on top of the mountain, probably fifteen acres, where
                                          there had been a summer hotel in the days of peace. Here
                                          we cut our way through the rear guard, and took after the
                                          wagon train.
                                   There were two pikes leading off the mountain, and the train
                                          had divided; we took the Smithburg pike, to head off and
                                          capture the section going that way. The mules attached to
                                          the wagons were running away down the hill; but we had to
                                          go by them, which we did, yelling and firing pistols. The
                                          train we were after was two miles long, and I saw many
                                          wagons go over the bank into the gulch below. Most of the
                                          wagons had wounded in them, and as we tore along we could
                                          hear the cries of the unfortunate men. Some of them were looking out,
                                          and some of them jumped. Many of the drivers were shot by
                                          our men; others deserted their teams, and the scene was
                                          frightful.
                                   But we finally got ahead of the train, and stopped it. Then we
                                          went to burning the wagons and killing the mules. The
                                          wounded were carried to the side of the road, but we had
                                          no time to look after them. We halted there several hours
                                          during the time hearing that the other train and five
                                          thousand prisoners had been captured.
                                   Just before we started on again, old Abe came walking into
                                          camp. How he discovered that his command had gone down the
                                          Smithburg pike, I cannot imagine, but there he was, and he
                                          at once took his place among the horses of my company. He
                                          had probably seen the fighting all through the night
                                          before, and followed us through the woods when it must
                                          have seemed to him that every limb on the trees was
                                          shooting fire. He was not far away when the charge took
                                          place on top of the mountain, and when he decided to
                                          follow the Smithburg pike, knowing by some instinct that
                                          his comrades had gone that way, he must have seen sights
                                          and heard sounds that were as terrible as any in the
                                          history of the war. He passed the entire train while the
                                          wagons were being burned, the wounded dumped out, and the
                                          mules killed, until he found his old friends of the First
                                          Vermont.
                                   
                                   His story now came to be noised about, and cavalry-men from
                                          other commands came up to look at him, all of whom offered
                                          kindly suggestions. That night we were at Hagerstown. I
                                          heard cheering half a mile away, and knew it was old Abe
                                          coming in. I rode over that way, and met him. He followed
                                          me to our camp, where I fed and watered him. He seemed to
                                          be getting better, but was very stiff in the neck.
                                   At midnight we hurried on, leaving old Abe lying down. There
                                          was no long halt for several days, but whenever we stopped
                                          to rest, and snatch a little sleep or a mouthful of food,
                                          old Abe would come in on us. Sometimes he would strike the
                                          pickets a mile from his regiment, but always found his way
                                          to us with unerring certainty.
                                   There was fighting almost every hour of the day, and half the
                                          time old Abe must have been among the enemy; he certainly
                                          came through their camp every time he found us, for we
                                          were in advance, and travelling the same road: our purpose
                                          was to burn certain bridges on the Potomac, and the
                                          Confederates were trying to prevent our doing it. But old
                                          Abe knew which crowd he belonged with, and managed to find
                                          us every night. Finding the horses of my company, he took
                                          his place with them, first having a tremendous row with
                                          his successor.
                                   Every day he got in a little earlier, and for awhile in the
                                          morning would travel by my side in the column, always looking for an opportunity
                                          to get a kick at the new horse I was riding; but we were
                                          making a forced march, and he would soon drop out. He was
                                          known as "The First Vermont Straggler,"
                                          and every day the soldiers of other commands would call to
                                          us, and ask how old Abe was coming on, to which we replied
                                          that he was coming on very well, and would surely be in at
                                          the surrender.
                                   One night we halted at 11 o'clock for six hours, and
                                          I worried because old Abe had not arrived. But when I
                                          mentioned the matter, it happened to be to a soldier who
                                          had been on picket duty, and he said old Abe came along
                                          the road within half an hour after he took his place, and
                                          had spent two hours with him, begging for crackers out of
                                          his knapsack. Old Abe was becoming a good deal of a
                                          vagrant, and would loaf with any of our command, although
                                          when I went out to saddle, he was usually with the horses
                                          of our company.
                                   I think he kept with us after that, usually marching by my
                                          side, though he would break ranks occasionally, and go
                                          after water, or nibble grass. Finally, at the end of the
                                          tenth day, I put my saddle on old Abe's back once
                                          more, and rode him until I was mustered out as one of
                                          Sheridan's cavalry. When I left the camp for
                                          good, I saw a recruit riding old Abe, and the recruit was
                                          being congratulated on having fallen heir to about the
                                          best horse in the service.
                            
                     
              
       
