
     ----CITATION---- 
        Landis, Frederick, 1872-1934. The Angel of Lonesome Hill: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3900
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                April 26th, 1916
                Seventh Annual Banquet
                of
                The Publicity Club
                of
                Springfield, Massachusetts
                Presented with the compliments of
                Charles Scribner's Sons
                Publishers of
                Scribner's Magazine
            
            
            
                
                    Those who passed by night were grateful for the lamp
                
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE ANGEL OF LONESOME HILL
                    A STORY OF A PRESIDENT
                
                BY Frederick Landis Author of "The Glory of His
                    Country"
                
                    NEW YORK
                    Charles Scribner's Sons
                    1910
                
            
            
            
                
                    Copyright, 1910, by Charles Scribner's Sons
                
                
                    Published April, 1910
                
            
        
        
            
            
                THE ANGEL OF LONESOME HILL
                IT was a handful of people in the country--a simple-hearted handful. There was no
                    railroad--only a stage which creaked through the gullies and was late. Once it
                    had a hot-box, and the place drifted through space, a vagrant atom.
                Time swung on a lazy hinge. Children came; young folks married; old ones died;
                    Indian Creek over-flowed the bottom-land; crops failed; one by one the stage
                    bore boys and girls away to seek their fortunes in the far-off world; at long
                    intervals some tragedy streaked the yellow clay monotony with red; January  blew petals from her silver garden; April poured
                    her vase of life; August crawled her snail length; years passed, leaving rusty
                    streaks back to a dull horizon.
                The sky seemed higher than anywhere else; clouds hurried over this place called
                    "Cold Friday."
                A mile to the east was "Lonesome Hill." Indians once built
                    signal fires upon it, and in this later time travellers alighted as their horses
                    struggled up the steep approach. At the top was a cabin; it was white-washed,
                    and so were the apple-trees round it. A gourd vine clung to its chimney; pigeons
                    fluttered upon its shingles, and June flung a crimson rose mantle over its side
                    and half-way up the roof.
                One wished to stop and rest be-  neath its weeping
                    willow by the white stone milk house.
                Those who passed by day were accustomed to a woman's face at the
                    window--a calm face which looked on life as evening looks on day--such a face as
                    one might use to decorate a fancy of the old frontier. Those who passed by night
                    were grateful for the lamp which protested against Nature's apparent
                    consecration of the place to solitude.
                This home held aloof from "Cold Friday"; many times Curiosity
                    went in, but Conjecture alone came out, for through the years the man and woman
                    of this cabin merely said, "We came from back yonder." Nobody
                    knew where "yonder" was.
                But the law of compensation was in force--even in "Cold
                    Friday."  With acquaintanceships as with
                    books, the ecstasy of cutting leaves is not always sustained in the reading, and
                    the silence of this man and woman was the life of village wonder.
                It gave "Friday's" chimney talk a spice it otherwise
                    had never known; the back log seldom crumbled into ashes till the bones of these
                    cabin dwellers lay bleaching on the plains of "Perhaps."
                John Dale was seventy-five years or more, but worked his niggard hillside all the
                    day, and seldom came to town. His aged wife was kind; the flowers of her life
                    she gave away, but none could glance upon the garden. She seemed to know when
                    neighbors were ill; hers was the dignity of being indispensable. Many the mother
                    of that region who, standing beneath  some cloud,
                    thanked God as this slender, whitehaired soul with star shine in her face,
                    hurried over the fields with an old volume pasted full of quaint remedies.
                She made a call of another kind--just once--when the
                    "Hitchenses" brought the fst organ to "Cold
                    Friday."
                She remained only long enough to go straight to the cabinet, which the assembled
                    neighbors regarded with distant awe, and play several pieces "without
                    the book."
                On her leaving with the same quiet indifference, Mrs. Ephraim Fivecoats peered
                    owlishly toward Mrs. Rome Lukens and rendered the following upon her favorite
                    instrument:
                "Well! if that woman ever gits the fever an' gits deliriums, I
                    want  to be round, handy like. I'll swan
                    there'll be more interestin' things told than we've
                    heerd in our born days--that woman is allus thinkin'!"
                In this final respect, the judgment of the Lady of the House of Five-coats was
                    sound.
                How gallant the mind is! If the past be sad, it mingles with Diversion's
                    multitude till Sadness is lost; if the present be unhappy, it has a magic thrift
                    of joys, and Unhappiness is hushed by Memory's laughter; if both past
                    and present have a grief, it seeks amid its scanty store for some event, for
                    instance, whose recurrence brings some brightness; to greet this it sends
                    affectionate aticipations--and were its quiver empty, it would battle still some
                    way! So the wife of Dale looked for-  ward to Doctor
                    Johnston's visits, yet there were so many doors between her silence and
                    the world, she did not turn as he entered one eventful day.
                Doctors are Nature's confessors, and down the memory of this one
                    wandered a camel of sympathy upon which the sick had heaped their secret woes
                    for years, though one added naught to the burden.
                It was the tale he wished to hear, and when some fugitive phrase promised
                    revelation, he folded the powders slowly; but when it ended in a sigh, he
                    strapped up bottles and expectations and went away, reflecting how poor the
                    world where one might hear all things save those which interested.
                But Time is a patient locksmith to whom all doors swing open.
                
                "I always sit by this window," she began as he removed the
                    fever thermometer; "I've looked so long; I see nothing in a
                    way--and at night I always put the light here. If he should come in the dark I
                    want him to see--here is a letter."
                The Doctor read and returned it with a look of infinite pity.
                "I had a dream last night; I may be superstitious or it may be the
                    fever--but it was so real. I saw it all; it was just like my prayer. I believe
                    in God, you know." She smiled in half reproach. "Yes, in spite
                    of all.
                "In that dream something touched my hand and a voice whispered the word,
                    'Now.' Oh, how anxous it was! I awoke, sitting up; the lamp
                    had gone out, yet it was not empty--and there was no wind."
                
                John Dale stumbled into the ram, his arms full of wood, and an old dog, lying
                    before the fireplace, thumped his tail against the loor with diminishing
                    vigor.
                She arose. "I'll get you a bite to eat, Doctor."
                "Never mind! I must be going." He made a sign to Dale, who
                    followed to the gate.
                "John, I've been calling here a long time---"
                "I know I ought to pay somethin'," Dale started to
                    say.
                "It isn't that--I've just diagnosed the case; only one
                    man can cure it."
                "Wold he--on credit?" Dale anxiously inquired.
                "He never charges." Johnston smiled sorrowfully at the old
                    man's despair.
                
                "Who is he?"
                "The President; the President of the United States," he added
                    as Dales eyes filled with questions. "I came out of college a sceptic,
                    John, and I'd be an indel out right but for that wife of
                    yous--she's nearer the sky, somehow, than any other mortal
                    I've seen. I don't believe in anything, of course--but that
                    dream--if I were you I'd trust it--I'd follow where it
                    led."
                With his foot on the hub, the farmer slowly whetted his knife on his boot.
                    "I'll go with you, Doctor."
                "I called at the office, but it was locked, and so I'm
                    here," apologized Dale as Judge Long opened the door of his
                    old-fashioned stone house in Point Elizabeth, the county seat.
                
                "Glad to see you--had your supper?"
                Hearing voices in the diningroom, he answered in the affimative.
                "Then have a cigar and wait in the library; the folks are having a
                    little company."
                The old man surveyed the room; the books alone were worth more than his earthly
                    possessions. From a desk loomed a bust of Webster. Shadows seemed to leap from
                    it; the sombre lips bespoke the futility of striving against stern
                    realities.
                There was gayety in the dining-room; Judge Long was a fountain of mirth, a
                    favorite at taverns, while riding the circuit--before juries--wherever people
                    gathered.
                A gale of laughter greeted his last  anecdote and
                    the diners protested as he arose.
                Dale told his story excitedly, and at the conclusion Judge Long slowly brushed
                    away the tobacco smoke.
                "I'm sorry, John, but we did all we could last month--and we
                    failed; there's just one thing to do--face the matter. It's
                    hard, but this world is chiefly water, and what isn't water is largely
                    rock--it's for fish and fossils, I suppose."
                "But we will win now!" The old man's hand fell with
                    decision.
                "Why do you say that?"
                "Mother had another dream last night."
                "But, you know, she had one a month ago," quietly protested
                    Long.
                "Yes--and it came true--we didn't do our part just right. We
                    can't fail  this time; there must be a day
                    of justice!"
                "Well, as to that, John, this game of life is strange; we bring nothing
                    with us, so how can we lose? We take nothing away, so how can we win? We think;
                    we plan; we stack these plans with precision, but Chance always sits at our
                    right, waiting to cut the cards. You speak of 'justice.'
                    It's myth. The statue above the court-house stands first on one foot,
                    then on the other, tired of waiting, tired of the sharp rocks of technicality,
                    tired of the pompous farce. Why, Dale," he waved a hand toward an
                    opposite corner, "if old Daniel Webster were here he couldn't
                    do anything!"
                When an American lawyer cites that mighty shade it is conclusive, but  the effect was lost on Dale. He was not a lawyer, neither
                    had he read the "Dartmouth College Case" nor the
                    "Reply to Hayne." In fact his relations with the
                    "Sage of Marshfield" were so formal he believed his fame to
                    rest chiefly on having left behind a multitude of busts. Besides, he was
                    impatient; the Judge's peroration having lifted his head so suddenly
                    that cigar ashes fell upon the deep rug at his feet.
                "You won't go again, Judge?" He leaned forward
                    perplexed.
                "It's no use."
                "Well, mebbe you can't do anything--mebbe Dan'L
                    Webster couldn't--but John Dale can!"
                Long arose, astonished. "How foolish! Reason for a moment--any
                    presentation of this matter calls for  the highest
                    ability; it involves sifting of evidence; symmetry of arrangement; cohesiveness
                    of method, logic of argument, persuasiveness of advocacy, subtleties of acumen,
                    charms of eloquence--all the elements of the greatest profession among
                    men!"
                Dale leaned heavily against the table, his eyes following the Judge as he walked
                    back and forth.
                "Well, I've got 'em--I can't call
                    'em by name, but I've got the whole damned list--and
                    I'm goin'!"
                Long stood at bay, his hand on the door, his face glowing with animation.
                "Dale, you're old enough to be my father, but you shall listen.
                    You'd fail before a justice of the peace, and before the President of
                    the United States--it's absurd. You'd go down there, get mad, probably be arrested and kill any hope we
                    might have; why, you're guilty of contempt of court right now. I had a
                    strong influence, yet I failed."
                The old farmer of "Lonesome Hill" would listen no more.
                "Then wait, John. This letter may at least save you from jail--and you
                    haven't any money; will this do?"
                "It's more than I need, Judge."
                "No, keep it all--and keep your temper too."
                As the Judge stood in the doorway, watching the venerable figure disappear in the
                    drizzling night, a young woman from the dining-room stole to his side and heard
                    him muse: "After all, who knows? A Briton clad in skins once humbled a
                    Roman emperor."
                
                "Is he in trouble?" she asked.
                "Yes, great trouble, and it isn't his fault. Fate's a
                    poor shot. She never strikes one who is guilty without wounding two who are
                    innocent."
                Dale was an admirable volunteer and strangely resourceful; he had something more
                    than courage.
                The train did not leave for two hours. He sat in the station till the clatter of
                    the telegraph drove him out, when he walked toward the yards with their colored
                    lights, and through his brain raced Speculation's myriad fends all
                    brandishing lanterns like those before him. When, at last, the train did start,
                    it seeme to roll slowly, though it could suffer delay and reach the Capital by
                    daybreak.
                
                He read the letter of introduction several times, and wondered what kind of man
                    the President was; he thought of what he would say--and how it would end.
                At intervals a ghost would extend a long, bony hand and wring drops of blood from
                    his heart; at such times the President was hostile--the trip very foolish--he
                    regretted his anger at Judge Long's house; and once, had the engine
                    been a horse, he might have turned back. At other times gleams of victory came
                    from somewhere and yet from nowhere, and routed the gypsies from his brain, and
                    the President stood before him, a sympathetic gentleman. Once he knew it, and
                    through excess of spirits walked up and down the aisle, studying the sleeping
                    passengers; for John  Dale travelled in a common
                    "day coach."
                At last he yielded to fatigue, and far off on the horizon of consciousness dimly
                    washed the duel of his hopes and fears. Rest was impossible, and after a long
                    time the dawn drifted between his half-closed lids; a glorious dome floatd out
                    of the sky and the porter shouted, "All out for
                    Washington!"
                The cabmen who besieged the well-dressed passenges paid scant homage to the old
                    man, who walked uncertainly out of the smoke shed and stood for a moment in
                    Pennsylvania Avenue--on one hand the Capitol, on the other the Treasury and
                    White House. A geat clock above him struck the hour of six; he hesitated, then
                    went toward the scene of conflict.
                
                The waking traffic, the great buildings, the pulse of this strange life filled
                    him with depression. He came to a beautiful park and gazed upon Lafayette and
                    Rochambeau, then the equestrian statue of Jackson. As he sat facing the
                    snow-white building with columned portico, the magnolia blossoms were as
                    incense. Then he could wait no longer and crossed to the President's
                    office. A policeman stopped him at the steps. He explained that he had a letter
                    from Judge Long. What! Did this policeman not know Judge Long?
                He sat under a tree, and the policeman walked a few paces away to turn anon and
                    survey the waiting pilgrim. When the doors opened he entered. The President
                    would not come for another hour; he would be busy--  possibly he might see him by noon--provided he had credentials.
                With a sigh he sank into a chair and was soon asleep.
                "Come--this is no cheap lodging house!" The greeting was shaken
                    into him by a clerk with hair parted in the middle, who disdainfully surveyed
                    the sleeper's attire.
                He who has much on his mind little cares what he has on his back, and when the
                    youth exploded, "Who are you?" the old fellow's
                    self-reliance came forth.
                Leading the way to the door Dale pointed a trembling finger. "See that
                    buildin', 'Bub'--and that one yonder, and that patch
                    over there with Andy Jackson in it? Well, I'm one of the folks that
                    made it all--and paid for it; and you're one of  my hired hands. I've got to keep so many of you
                    down here I can't afford one on the farm. I want to see the
                    President--give him this letter--it's from Judge Sylvester Long, of
                    Point Elizabeth!"
                The youth vanishendand Dale resumed his chair.
                He was looking across the lawn when a sudden alertness came into the scene; the
                    silk-hatted line of callers stepped aside; those who were seated arose;
                    newspaper correspondents turned with vigilant ears. A nervous voice inquired,
                    "Where is Mr. John Dale?"
                The President stood before him, dressed in white flannel, then smilingly grasped
                    his hand with a blast of welcome: "I'm delighted to meet the
                    friend of Judge Long!" Taking  his arm the
                    Executive escorted him through the Cabinet Room thronged with Senators,
                    Representatives, and tourists. They entered the private offce. "Take
                    the sofa, Mr. Dale it's the easiest thing in the place. I hope your
                    business is such that you can excuse me for a little while."
                A smile came over Dale's white face. Could the poorest farmer of the
                    "Cold Friday" region wait for the most powerful character in
                    the world? Nor was the old man in the linen duster the only one who smiled. A
                    member of the Russian Embassy turned to his companion--a distinguished visitor
                    from the Court of St. Petersburg: "What would a peasant say to the
                    Czar?"
                The President now entered the Cabinet Room, shaking hands with  the many, guiding a few into his private office. Dale
                    listened; now it was an introduction and a message to an old friend in the West.
                    Then a decisive "No" dashed some hope of patronage; again, it
                    was a discussion of poetry, aerial navigation, or the relics of the Aztecs. It
                    was a long stride from "Lonesome Hill," and for the time Dale
                    was novelty's captive. He glanced round the room. It was not as fine as
                    the directors' office of the Point Elizabeth Bank! Above the
                    mantel--the place of honor--was the painting of a martyr. He wondered whether
                    another stroke of the brush would have brought a smile to the face, or an
                    expression of sadness. The hands were very large--they had once broken iron
                    bands.
                In one corner was a shot-gun;  tennis rackets in
                    another; on a chair were snow-shoes and on the desk a sheaf of roses.
                Those whom the President had sifted into his office from the crowd outside
                    engaged in conversation. A Senator discussed the ball game with a Supreme Court
                    Justice; a General advised an Author to try deep breathing.
                The President returned more animated than before. He placd a hand on
                    Dale's shoulder: "Be comfortable--and stay for lunch; nobody
                    but us."
                The crowd paid sudden respect to the homespun citizen of an older day, and a
                    great happines came into his heart--it as ike the unfolding of one of the roses.
                    Not that he was to lunch with the President, though Dale's  was the village estimate of human greatness. A vaster
                    issue was before him, and this was a token of success--a succes which would bind
                    up his remaining years with peace, and give glorious recompense to the companion
                    of his few joys and many griefs.
                The President hurriedly signd his name to parchments.
                "I'm making a few postmasters." He smiled toward the
                    sofa. "It's no trouble here--that's all at the other
                    end of the line."
                Without stopping the pn, he discussed matters with one statesman after another,
                    his lips snapping with metallic positiveness.
                A member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations protested against the
                    course pursued in Santo Domingo.
                
                "If I were making a world, Senator, I'd try to get along
                    without putting in any Santo Domingos, but as things stand, we must make her be
                    decent or let somebody else do it."
                Another brings up the question of taxing incomes and inheritances.
                "I favor them both," declared the President. "They are
                    taxes on good luck; bad luck is its own tax."
                A statesman from the Pacific slope protests against Federal interference in the
                    school question.
                "It is a local matter as you say, Senator, and yours is a Sovereign
                    State'--they all are till they get into trouble. If we should have war
                    with Japan, your State would speedily be come an integral part of the
                    Union."
                A group of gentlemen now object to an aspirant for a Federal judgeship  on the ground that he has not a "judicial
                    temperament."
                "As I understand it," the President begins, "judicial
                    temperament is largely a fragrance rising from the recollection of corporate
                    employment; it is the ability to throw a comma under the wheels of progress and
                    upset public welfare; I am glad to learn that Mr. L------ has not a 'judicial temperament'; I shall send his name
                    to the Senate to-day."
                The gentlemen retired. "Come, Mr. Dale, let us go."
                This President had been accused of a lack of dignity. Is it a less valuable trait
                    which puts the John Dales of our land at instant ease in the "State
                    Dining-Room" of the White House?
                "Well, sir, no man ever had a  better
                    friend than Judge Long," said the President when they were seated.
                    "'Ves' Long, I mean," he added with a
                    smile.
                "I met him in the West; he had a ranch; mine was near it. We saw much of
                    each other; we hunted together--and that's where you learn a
                    man's mettle. He never complained of dogs, luck, or weather. We saw
                    rough times; it was glorious. We'd wake up with snow on the bed, and
                    when 'Ves' introduced me at Point Elizabeth in my first
                    campaign he said we often found rabbit tracks on the quilts--but then
                    'Ves' had a remarkable eye.
                "Some say, 'blood is thicker than water.' That depends
                    somewhat on the quality of the water; I like him; there's nothing I
                    wouldn't do for him!"
                
                Dale grew suddenly sick at heart. If Long had only come! Recalling his
                    discouraging words, a shadow crept over the old man's mind. Could it be
                    possible he had not tried the month before?
                Such misgivings soon vanished. "This is a trying offce, Mr. Dale. With
                    all my feelings I had to hold in abeyance the only favor he ever asked; it was
                    about a pardon in a murder case over thirty-fve years ago. He said it was the
                    most cruel case of circumstantial evidence in the books--possibly you may know
                    about the case."
                The old man struggled back in his chair, then arose, his rough hand brushing thin
                    locks back from a temple where the veins seemed swelling to the danger point. He
                    was unable  to summon more than a whisper from his
                    shrunken throat.
                "Yes, Mr. President, I do-he's my boy!"
                "Your--boy! Yes--that's the name--how stupid of me--I beg your
                    pardon, Mr. Dale--a thousand times."
                They stared a long while at each other and Dale felt the fears which had fled
                    before his gracious reception returning to grip him by the heart; the speech he
                    had prepared had fled; it had all happened so differently.
                At last the President spoke: "Congress is just going out; it's
                    the busy season, but I'll go through the papers to-night
                    myself."
                Dale walked to the window; perspiration was on his face, but he was very cold. He
                    stood with locked  brain, and into his eyes came
                    filmy clouds; then through these he saw, with sudden strangeness, a cabin far
                    away, and a woman with pallid cheeks looked straight at him.
                The President gazed intently as the old man wiped the window pane, nodded his
                    head, and turned to face the table.
                He cleared his throat, then opened a flannel collar, already loose, and his eyes
                    glistened.
                "You're sick!" exclaimed the President rising.
                    "Waiter--some brandy!"
                "No--just a little dizzy.
                "Mr. President," he slowly began, "this is a case that
                    all the papers in the world can't tell--nor all the
                    men--there's none just like it.
                "It's not for the boy--it's not for  me. I took her from her foks against their will, and
                    I've not panned out lucky--but that's not to the point.
                    She's sick; the doctor can't help her--nobody can but you--I
                    wish you might have seen her from the window yonder."
                The half-finished luncheon was disregarded; the President had sunk into his
                    chair, and the keen discrimination of a king of affairs was struggling with a
                    strange fascination.
                "Long ago, Mr. President, I had an enemy--Bill Hartsell--we shot each
                    other." He held up a withered hand. "It's been a feud
                    ever since. His boy and mine went to war in the same company--both as brave as
                    ever wore the blue. When they were waitin' to be mustered out
                    Bill's boy was  murdered in his tent--in
                    his sleep. Bill was there and swore he saw my Richard do it.
                "One night, a month ago, my woman--she's a great woman, Mr.
                    President--the sick folks down in my country call her 'The Angel of
                    Lonesome Hill'--well, she had a dream that Bill Hartsell wanted to see
                    me. I hadn't laid eyes on him for years. I strapped on my six-shooter
                    and she said, 'No--it isn't that kind of a trip--it's
                    peace.'
                "I put down the shootin' iron and went--it was a long way--two
                    days on horseback. I got to Bill's cabin at night; I went in without a
                    knock; I wasn't afraid. Bill's folks were round the bed. He
                    arose and cried out: 'John, I sent for you; it was a damn lie I told--
                         your boy didn't do it'--and
                    then Bill died."
                For the moment the old man's agitation mastered him.
                "I remember, Mr. Dale. 'Ves' told me; he brought the
                    statements of the family--and yours. I've been thinking of it ever
                    since--and a great deal these last two days. Tell me, why did you happen to
                    come?"
                "Mother had a dream that said the time was up."
                Dale spoke as calmly as though delivering a message from a neighbor.
                Fear was not even a memory now. He stood erect; the stone he had slowly pushed up
                    many steep years was near the summit--one mighty effort might hurl it down the
                    past forever.
                "Just a word about that boy, Mr. 
                    President. At Cold Harbor his regiment stood in hell all day; he was one of
                    those who pinned his name to his coat so his body could be identifed--after the
                    charge. Well, in that charge the flag went down, and a man went out to get
                    it--and he fell; then another--and he fell; and then a thin, pale fellow that
                    the doctors almost refused sprang forward like a panther--and he fell. They were
                    askin' for a volunteer when a staff officer called out: Good God!
                    He's alive! He's got it! He's crawlin'
                    back!'
                "They had to lift him off the colors; he didn't know anything,
                    ... and that was my boy, Mr. President--that was Dick!
                "Funny how he enlisted," Dale resumed after a moment.
                    "He'd been tryin' to get in, but I kept him out.  One night his mother sent him for a
                    dime's worth of clothes-line--and he never came back. He's not
                    bad, Mr. President; he's good--he gets it from his
                    mother."
                Dale lifted his head with pride: "When I was on the jury I heard Judge
                    Long say no one could be punished if their name wasn't written in the
                    indictment. Now, they didn't only convict Dick--they convicted his
                    mother--this whole world's her prison--and it's illegal, Mr.
                    President--her name wasn't written in that indictment--and
                    it's her pardon I want."
                The President arose and walked the floor. "How could the man who saved
                    those colors shoot a comrade in his sleep? Mr. Dale, my faith in human nature
                    tells me that's a lie!"
                
                He stood for an instant at the window, looking over the fountain, the river, the
                    tall white Washingon needle which pierced the sky, then quickly steppd to the
                    table and lifted a glass:
                "Mr. Dale, I propose a toast--'The Angel of Lonesome
                    Hill' ... her liberty!"
                As they returnd to the office there was nothing extraordinary in the
                    President's vigorous step--that was known the world around. There was
                    something most unusual, however, in the radiant soul--the splendid ancient youth
                    of the quaint figure by his side.
                At the door where the policeman had watched the waiting pilgrim the President
                    shook the old man's hand.
                
                "Come again, Mr. Dale, and tell 'Ves' Long
                    I'll go hunting with him this fall and bring along a man he'll
                    like--a man who catches wolves with his hands."
                John Dale knew every fence corner in that region, but the night was so dark he
                    stopped at times to "feel where he was."
                The man with him could not aid him; he was a stranger--a strange stranger who
                    spoke but once-"How far is it?"
                Long habit had made him silent; he was in the upper fifties, but long absence
                    from the sun had pinchd his face into the white mask of great age.
                At the village store the stranger entered, returning with a package.
                
                When the road turned there was a light high ahead and a moment later the two men
                    entered the cabin.
                The stranger paused. "Mother, you sent me for a
                    clothes-line--I've been delayed--but here it is."
                Her hand trembled as she raised the lamp from the table.
                "My boy--my dream--the President!"
                When she lifted her face it was glorified.
            
        
    
