
   ----CITATION---- 
        Landis, Frederick, 1872-1934. The Glory of His Country: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3896
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        
          THE GLORY OF HIS COUNTRY
        
         BY Frederick Landis
        
        
          NEW YORK
          Charles Scribner's Sons
          1910
        
      
      
      
        Copyright, 1910, by Charles
            Scribner's Sons
        
        Published February, 1910
        
      
      
      
        To MARY KUMLER LANDIS
      
      
      
        THE GLORY OF HIS COUNTRY
      
    
    
      
      
        The Glory of His Country
        
          CHAPTER I
          HAPPYVILLE was the highest point in all the country round, and rivers
            formed a wish-bone at its base. The fathers had cut the garment of the place to fit the
            trees and left them--oaks, elms, walnuts, maples, sycamores--standing in the
            sidewalks--even in the streets, for these were wide beyond the dreams of traffic.
          Time-stained columns before the court-house hushed protesting tax-payers with an awe of
            government and refreshed artistic spirits with a glimpse of Greece. All was life about
            this temple of justice; old men lounged upon its broad steps, tossing problems of state
            into Scorn's back yard; in the court-room above, the lawyer placed a finger upon the hapless juror's knee and gave vent to tumult
            heard afar, while higher still, pigeons walked forever round and round the cornice.
          As the city stranger paused before the venerable homes with wide porticoes, leaf and
            sunlight--playmates since creation--made golden pictures on lawns of plush; birds sang
            at their building; bees drank from roses; squirrels scampered off with the cares of
            earth--and the city turned to a pillar of salt.
          The place wore many ribbons of distinction. There was a dentist who gave
            "laughing gas," a band with a slide trombone, and a reticent painter,
            who lived alone and claimed to be Charley Ross. The judge had gained "second
            sight," cast away his cane, and won a re-election after the bar had solemnly
            declared him feeble. The soldiers' monument had been unveiled by Gen-eral Grant on his return from around the world. The American House
            had a bridal chamber, the County Fair had never discounted a premium, the key to the
            jail was lost, and there was neither poor-house nor potter's field.
          But rarest of all was a "Son of the Revolution"--one of the
            Republic's few! He had been a boy with Jackson at New Orleans, and later knew
            the great La Fayette. What a dear old spirit "Uncle Peter Whitcomb"
            was, counting his hundred years blandly as the moon counts lovers, when, with children
            round his knees, he put the winter night to rout with endless tale.
          This mere speck upon the map had sent brave men out to battle-felds, and brilliant ones
            into life's affairs, and now it claimed two thousand sterling souls--such as
            are the "Old Guard" of governments everywhere.
          
          Among the creaking signs round the public square was one of rusty tin--"Daniel
            & Halfpap, Attorneys & Counsellors." In his thirteenth year
            Philip Daniel had resolved to become another Washington; it was the afternoon he had won
            the mule-race at the Fair. Later he served as printer's devil, brushed flies at
            the blacksmith shop, worked in harvest fields, taught school, bought an interest in a
            wandering circus, and one bright morning, before the judge with "second
            sight" could recover from astonishment, he had been admitted to the bar.
          After this event, farmers were accustomed to see the pale, slender youth,
            hawk-featured, bare-headed, long of limb and raven locks, high of collar and ambition,
            his hands gesturing strangely, striding toward Signal Rock, a limestone obelisk five
            miles away. Then time cooled his zeal and reduced him to the
            ranks of the unaspiring.
          Michael Halfpap had never been molested by heroic meditations. Philip's
            ancestors must have been wearing armor and soothing ladies in distress when
            Michael's were simply raising carrots for the barons. The latter's
            right eye was gray, the left one brown, and while the first caressed, the second defied.
            His nose was brief, and his face seemd to hurry from it. Fixed purpose was in the lips,
            deep lines at the sides indicating the same to be of mirthful nature; while freckles in
            the left cheek formed a "Job's coffin." The Happyville
            theosophist glanced at Mr Halfpap but once, then consulted the orbit of Adam and
            declared Michael to be none less than grandfather himself!
          This youthful partnership was more than shingle could imply, spanning the infnitude from possessions to desires, and every month the landlord
            entered, only to learn the folly of living for pelf alone. By keeping creditors
            distinct, one could remain to "receive" when the other stepped to the
            roof; the hall was long, and they knew the tradesman's tread as sailors sniff
            the gale afar, a mental strain which was lifted in summer by keeping the door at an
            angle which flashed into a mirror all who mounted the stairs.
          Such was the "active practice" one spring afternoon when a siren
            whistle tumbled into confusion the cob-piped, story-telling lot in "Daniel
            & Halfpap's" office, causing Philip to rush to action in a red
            helmet, for he was "Corporal" of the volunteer fire department.
          More commanders than men soon issued from the town hall with hose- cart, buckets, axes, and pikes, charging up the street, preceded by
            one William Stiff, a harmless worthy given to ringing a bell at the head of
            demonstrations. The flower of Happyille looked upon them and knew not fear--and Fate
            leaned over the edge of her strange star to let fall a rose--and a thorn.
          In the "Red Front" book-store stood a Phenomenon with sailor hat,
            October hair, and such a face as nature sends in answer to the cynics. Her wide blue
            eyes were as gracious deeds; old sunsets lingered in her cheeks; she was honesty in
            bloom--one of Time's elect who asked no bribe to be glad, wished naught that
            noonday cloud had not; sweetened insipid hours with gratitude for being, took ills as
            promises of better things, and smiled throughout the day in token of a kinship with all
            mornings from the first.
          
          A murmur rippled through the crowd; "Corporal Daniel" had dropped the
            hose-cart rope and, shoved aside by his hurrying fellows, stood in the street,
            transfixed. He rubbed his face, then, possessed by the pinkest of frenzies, plunged into
            the store, but the Phenomenon merely gazed upon the tugging line of firemen and then
            resumed a magazine. An object crossed the "Corporal's"
            vision; he would have brushed it aside by divine right had it not proved to be the
            proprietor.
          "What will you have, Philipp?"
          The young man's eyes widened; "I--I want--I called to get
            'Demosthenes's Orations.'"
          The proprietor shook his head suspiciously; the "Corporal's"
            exit was noiseless; his mission had been grotesque--and he had deserted the public
            defence!
          
          He walked two blocks and returned to find the vision gone.
          Then an epoch fell--the "Canon Ball" whistled for a stop--the first
            time since Hiram Hatfield had had "floating kidney" and the great
            specialist came. A mighty hand hurled the red-helmeted youth down the street with
            lightning speed; the earth arose to strike his feet with rubber paddles; it was a
            horizontal fall.
          A little later would have been fatal; the conductor was waving his hand; the rear door
            opened and upon the observation platform, buttoning a light travelling coat to her chin,
            stepped the Phenomenon!
          With helmet high, he paid silent tribute, and she clasped the railing, bewildered. The
            sailor was gone, and in its stead a cap--a checkered island, round which tossed surf of the hue of harvests, after dew and night have
            mellowed the pattern of the day.
          The wheels turned faster; she leaned slightly forward; her head lifted; the lingering
            sunsets flushed into an after-glow; her eyes were filed with something like pebble
            shadows in a brook; the air rippled with gold; a breeze blew over the spicelands of
            Araby; she smiled and cried: "Good-by, Demosthenes!"
          b"Farewell, Incomparable One! Come back some time!"
          The train curved out of sight with the world hitched to it.
          "Going to the lawn fête to-night?" inquired Halfpap when Philip
            returned.
          "I'm never going anywhere--I've been to war!"
          Michael grew sympathetic. "I don't blame you--I saw her. Who is
            she?"
          
          Philip sank into his chair with a sigh. "Come nearer, my dear
            Halfpap--I'll whisper in confdence: she's the Angel Gabriel, in a
            better shape--God pity all whose resurrection day doesn't come till after
            death."
          
          The partners were looking down the hall next morning when the postman appeared.
            "This one seems little different," he observed, holding a square
            envelope to the light. Philip knew it would break Michael's heart and longed to
            snatch it away. The latter's glance conveyed the clairvoyance of long intimacy,
            as he broke the seal and calmly read aloud: 
              
                
                  "DEAR COMRADE:--
                  "Enclosed find dissolution of the celebrated firm of 'Daniel
                    & Halfpap,' formed four years ago under a misimpression that
                    life was a house-party.
                  
                  "I divorce you as Napoleon divorced Josephine, and by way of alimony,
                    give you our cable address, 'Wolf.'
                  "I keep the back room and give you the front--you to have access to
                    the roof at all times.
                  "Aside from each other, there is no reason why we should not
                    prosper.
                  "Devoted Halfpap, hail and farewell!
                  
                    "PHILIP DANIEL."
                  
                
              
            
          
          Michael bore himself like a Spartan, then turned, his pen rasping the silence like a
            file. After a few moments he requested a loan sufficient for postage and special
            delivery stamp.
          They were discussing some issue vital to the race when a messenger delivered the
            following: 
              
                
                  "DEAR PHILIP:--
                  I knew it was a tragedy the first day, but we had that embossed stationery--and
                    what is more inelegant than lines drawn through a letter-head!
                  
                  "Once I did resolve, but the recollection of your pulling me out of
                    the mill-race started the old refrain and I decided to let things drift, hoping
                    in the course of time we would be mobbed--a means of dissolution free from all
                    embarrassment.
                  "I am glad no witnesses are essential to a legal division of chairs,
                    and that it can be a quiet home affair.
                  
                    "M. HALFPAP."
                  
                
              
            
          
          Philip was lonely after this sensation of the legal world had been consummated by
            Michael's taking his departure. The door between them would always be open, yet
            life could not be the same.
          The serious phase of radiant resolutions is a leaping into new liabilities, as if debts
            born of such transports paid golden dividends. Before dinner Philip reached out boldly.
            He acquired a janitor, persuaded that the time had come in
            his life when this important step should be taken; he also secured a safe, a great
            bargain--a year's time. It was an age, considering the size of the safe. Then
            suddenly fearing that some one might seek to dispossess him of the premises, he arranged
            for an endless lease. The establishment was most cheerful; it had been a photograph
            gallery, and a mountain scene, left by the artist in his haste, divided the room into
            parlors of jurisprudence, while the slanting glass roof was indescribable in a
            storm.
          Halfpap's destiny was to unfold in the "developing
            room."
          Strategically, Philip thought his office superb. He could see the farmers--the hope of
            the legal profession--as they entered the wagon-yard, while the view of the court-house
            was such that in future law-suits, the bai- lif could
            merely step to the balcony and call his name. This would be a great convenience for the
            bailiff. Then in moments of diversion--for he would be compelled to take them--he could
            slant a chair against the window and see the lawyers' team pitch
            horse-shoes.
          If anything, the future twas unfolding too swiftly. As a result of becoming effort, he
            had been invited to address the Old Settlers' Picnic, and now was busily
            writing some lines on "Our Upward Way." He would pause as from his pen
            fell some bit of imprisoned splendor.
          Across the street, idlers now gathered round an organ-grinder who sang: "She
            died when I was at sea." Philip's vision grew indistinct. What if
            during the applause which was to greet that Old Settlers' speech, he should
            behold a glorious creature in travelling coat and sailor
            hat, clinging helplessly to the spell?
          It did seem foolish, still when had the leaves ever whispered so?
          Tapping with his cane, the blind singer passed a cup; Philip tossed his last coin from
            the window, then gazed far over the hills where a grove of dogwood wrapped its snowy
            scarf round a country church-yard. Yes, it would be a great speech, and who could
            tell?--a young man's triumph on such an occasion once made him governor!
          He surveyed frayed cuffs and wrote a line: "Let us beware of luxury; such was
            the curse of Rome!"
          Philip turned suddenly as a guest pounded down the hall; it was Colonel Hardy, the town
            capitalist. When Philip had embarked in the circus business the Colonel was famous for
            helping young men, and meeting him on the bridge, the
            budding Barnum had simultaneously revealed his identity and a note for five hundred
            dollars; and using the applicant's back for a desk, Hardy had welcomed the
            hazard, saying: "Glad to meet you, Mr. Daniel; it's a fine
            business--good luck!"
          Philip now arose to greet his friend, but the latter stood in ominous silence. He was
            over six feet and straight as a West Pointer should be at seventy. The bristly, white
            mustache, the smooth, tanned face, the alert step, the bold nose, jaw, and eyes
            suggested his Alma Mater. The Colonel's gaze grew more
            intense, then he placed before Philip a copy of the Trumpet, still
            fragrant of ink, and pointed to the comment:
          "A certain young Happyvillite was missing at the fire in Humphrey's
            second-hand parlor.' He started, but Ha-ha!
            Success, Phil; the Trumpet tenders congratulations in
            advance."
          
          Philip's face was swept with indignation,but it vanished before the
            Colonel's rising temper:
          "Mr. Philip Daniel, that's full of dynamite!"
          And as the young man marvelled, the old man walked away.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER II
          THE Old Settlers' Picnic was wonderful. All creation
            streamed in with the dawn, and dusty threads hung over the roads for miles. There were
            floats with girls in old fashions, cabins on wheels, horsemen in hunting-shirts, while
            the town was dressed till it looked like a woman.
          Two flags, faded and torn, hung before the court-house. Both had been given to
            departing regiments on the spot, one waving all the way to Mexico, the other from
            Donelson to Atlanta. Soldiers hobbled around them, and a blind man, led by a child, went
            up to "feel the colors."
          People just visited in the morning, old friends meeting for the first time in a year. It was not "conversation"; they meant
            it; it was "talk," honest as grass, fragrant as an
            "out-oven" of bread.
          "Whur's the boy Zack took to raise--the one sent out from the
            East?"
          "Oh, you mean Willie--the 'bound boy'; why, bless you--in
            Calfornie; got a wife and six children; sent his picture back last Christmas; roses in
            bloom--think of it!"
          "Father" Post with transparent face, beaver hat, and old stock,
            called grandfathers "John" and "Samuel" as the day
            he bapthized them. He is asked to settle a dispute--"The first white
            funeral--let me see--it was in '28--that cold New Year's before the
            spring the 'milk sick' was so terrible."
          Four generations surround a woman with snowy hair, silk bonnet, and pale glory round
            her face; she declines one chair after another.
          
          "Oh, no, thanks; the idy--slip of a girl like me! Well, as I was
            a-sayin'--for the earache, you take a pipe, fill it with tobacco, an'
            start it; lay a cloth over the bowl--just like this; put the stem in the childs ear an
            blow the smoke in back'ard, then close the ear with cotton, an' the
            smoke 'll cure it without fail!"
          Boots were "blacked" at home; white dresses had the rare scent of
            ironed cleanliness, and little boys and girls felt stiff, dressed up on a week-day!
          Neatness is a kind biographer; it told how these had seen the whites of the eyes of
            pioneer life but feared nothing save debt; how they had never thrown a crust away nor
            turned a tramp from the door; how they had saved the last cartridge, and sat up with the
            sick; how they how they had made a nation with the sickle
            and the spinning-wheel--and never thought about it.
          There were no beggars, drunkards, thieves, anarchists--none but folks who look like the
            flag.
          Amos and William--lawyer and cartoonist--were home for the day--the farm feeds the city
            so its own sons may reap the city' rewards. And how these two were greeted;
            there is no knight-hood like the pride of old neighbors.
          Candidates were shaking hands and laughing boisterously; bands tramped up and down,
            playing "Indian Ghost" and "Wake Up Sady"; toy
            balloons floated like bubbles over all; cane-racks, peanut-stands taffy-hooks, ice-cream
            tents flourished. Under a canvas the youth and his "girl" had
            tin-types taken, and once when a child was lost, hundreds searchd till, all smiles, it
            was restored.
          
          The meeting was called to order at eleven o'clock, and rocking-chairs
            presented to the oldest couple; then came sack and wheelbarrow races, and a fity-yard
            dash for all over sixty-five, after which a greased pig cast the multitude into
            confusion till it was claimed by a panting urchin with freckles and a future!
          There was dinner enough for an army, all bringing twice what was needed--pyramids of
            chicken and cake--tables were half a block long, and girls with long switches kept off
            the flies.
          Then it was cleared away like a tumbler's mat in a circus, the surplus sent to
            the Orphans' Home, and thousands packed the court-house yard, waiting for the
            speeches.
          "Father Post" looked the patriarch, offering prayer, and everybody
            stood for "The Star Spangled Banner."
          
          Perhaps too much was expected of United States Senator Bolivar. During his speech the
            crowd grew restless, and La Fayette Conrad, frontier debater, deliberately folded the
            hose of his ear-trumpet and sought a comfortable position.
          A young clergyman was next introduced, principally because he had come "from a
            distance." His theme seemed to be the certainty of death, and insinuations were
            levelled at the aged to the effect that their persistence was reprehensible.
          Closing with a description of the sinner's death-bed the orator addessed Mr.
            Conrad: "My venerable friend, the issue is not, What riches have you garnered?
            but, What will you say on judgment day?"
          It was too much; Mr. Conrad's wheat crop had been a failure and so, humped up in impatience and ancient broadcloth, he snapped back:
            "I've nothing prepared; I'll trust to the inspiration of the
            moment!"
          Philip would come next on the programme, and while friends waved encouraging hands,
            nothing could banish the horror of it; it was like impending execution; thus far the
            audience had not clapped a hand, and with frigid extremities he thanked heaven that it
            would all be over in some way by night.
          Then Colonel Hardy, possibly noting something which suggested the volunteer in his
            first skirmish, had Major McFaddin called.
          The Major was brother to Happyville's mineral spring; men went wrong and wells
            went dry but these two sparkled on; both had always belonged to the town and always
            would. His face and head were a smooth, pink globe, and a
            mighty cheer broke forth as the smiling favorite arose, a stuffed wildcat under his
            arm.
          The dean of local bachelors, he related woes with his "mother-in-law"
            till old ladies held their sides. His collar wilted, and drawing off a linen duster he
            cast it across the stage, without stopping the torrent of words, and there were
            shouts--it was a familiar performance. He related jokes on compatriots, reviewed their
            courtships, and dramatically traced Philander Threewits crossing the Alleghany
            Mountains, bringing the first night-shirt to the wilderness.
          He told of log-rollings, barn-raisings, spelling-matches, and described a coon-hunt
            till one could almost hear the dogs. He lifted the marble-eyed wild-cat from the stand
            for the peroration:
          
          "Come to my museum and see the things of 'real days'--for it
            takes more than a sun to make a day. I've foxes and
            'painters'; I've war-clubs, arrows, feathers and paint;
            I've the under-jaw of a 'catawampus,' and the skulls of Black
            Hawk--both of them--the skull of Black Hawk when he was a young man, and the skull of
            Black Hawk just before he died!"
          Wave after wave of laughter and cheers followed the Major to his chair.
          After all, was it not worse for Philip than if he had followed "the
            cloth"? But such speculation ended; the chairman was bowing.
          It was a marvellous greeting, not unlike a great clock at whose striking puppets nod,
            for to most of these people Phiip was a stranger. A common spring seemed to lift him
            upright and turn thousands of heads in inquiring pantomime.
            Under such a spell it was child's play to empty the pitcher and upset the
            glass, while his masterpiece left for parts unknown.
          Genius has gone below and enriched us with the goans of the lost, but she is too faint
            of heart to describe the pangs of budding speech when memory expires.
          The young man had clandestinely placed several reminders behind a vase of poppies, but
            the breeze, with joyous eagerness, caught the oratorical life-preserver and gave it to
            the world; the last tie with the race was sundered; he was free!
          To him the audience was a blurred composite, with one exception--a stout gentleman,
            standing at the very rear with flaming twins in his arms. Philip could not escape him;
            his eyes returned again and again till the gentleman's face assumed the
            dreadful aspect of a head at a midnight window--at any
            minute it might spread to the twins!
          Little did the stout gentleman know the part he played, but it hashed upon the orator
            with a chill, then an all-pervading glow; it was a challenge to pull a wish-bone with
            Fate: "Hold him who holds the twins and claim your great desire!" Over
            his memory floated a vision of a beautiful girl. He shed his coat, and with the
            glittering eye of primitive man at bay, plunged in. The speech stood forth, line for
            line as written, and going along, he gathered wild flowers in the garden of presence of
            mind as a philosopher strolls in his grove.
          Above the multitude soared mottled sycamores, whose rustling leaves of gold and brown
            wove sunlight into shadows, only to ravel them into sunlight again.
          
          Turning, after a while, to address gentlemen upon the stand, Philip found La Fayette
            Conrad, sitting with hand outspread to aid his trumpet. Oh, to have fallen at his feet!
            He was all benevolence, and over his wrinkled face danced a satisfaction which made one
            love him forever.
          Applause is fine, but to know that one has only to pluck it, is finer. It was all over
            too soon. Michael Halfpap leaped to his feet, proposing three cheers; those upon the
            stage crowded round with wonderful words, and the audience called the orator back for a
            "tiger."
          Then came an arrow memory; Philip arose--Glory! He had vanquished Fate; the gentleman
            wih the twins stood, smiling at his post. Doubt was dead and Rapture crowned--the world
            was his--and the Incomparable!
          
          The band was playing "The Battle Cry of Freedom"; the thousands were
            singing as though it were an anthem of deliverance, while Colonel Hardy, every inch the
            soldier in the charge, stood leading the chorus with his cane.
          All space fluttered with victory's countless wings. Such an instant may come
            but once; it is fleeting, yet long enough to overpay lifetime toil and sacrifice.
          It comes when some patient watchman of the universe at last beholds the sudden light we
            call discovery, or the chance rock in some derided student's pathway tells the
            secret we know as science; it comes when with crust for marriage feast, some garret-king
            mates dream and rainbow and gives us art; but greater far than these, it comes when
            Fancy piles our planet high with the matchless gems of a lover's dream.
          
          Leaning back in the deep chair, this is what Philip seemed to see--again the
            "Cannon Ball" came and went; again the Incomparable buttoned the light
            travelling-coat to her chin and clasped the railing--but she was not alone. As they
            swept down the valley along the old tow-path, he pointed out the charred ribs of the
            canal-boat Isabella, on which Charles Dickens was once a guest, for in
            her day she was the pride of the "Red Bird Packet Line." Now they
            turned to mark the trail up Echo Hollow whence the Iroquois departed; a little while and
            there were silver glimpses of waterfalls in Fitch's Glen; then they passed
            beneath the still canopy of old trees, more slowly climbing the ridge, leaning with the
            sweeping river bend, lordly as a creator's gesture. On in circling ascent they
            went till high in the distance, as if thrust forward by a
            giant's arm, the cliff glided into view--and with it Happyville--like some toy
            city, built of blocks, now touched with changing light, as the sun shot his final arrow
            high, then flung his quiver of and sank upon a couch of amethyst; evening's
            calm tide swept up the valley far beneath and drifting with it, queer shadow ships,
            dragging their anchors.
          The last words of "The Battle Cry of Freedom" floated away, the
            people rustled down into silence again--and Philip emerged from his dream.
          There are trustful souls who adore a spirit which on our little stage is thought to
            time mortal entrances and exits, leading this way and that, raising barriers of sea and
            circumstance, not by way of whim or torment, as it would seem, but to set common lives
            to the stately metre of romance.
          
          No sooner had this phantom train crept round the edge of Signal Rock, than up from
            below came the stop-signal of the real "Cannon Ball," and those who
            recalled Philip's fire department episode turned smilingly toward the stage to
            find the young orator leaning forward alert.
          The people listened while the engine puffed haughtily past the cliff. A little girl,
            all dressed for the part, was reciting "Barbara Frietchie" when hoofs
            clattered up from the station and men ran out, brandishing their arms. Around the corner
            flew a picturesque outfit, half in air--white mule with Roman nose, countenance aflame,
            as with remembered grievances of its kind; collar pressing its ears; harness patched
            with twine, spring wagon with dash kicked in, wheels which would have wobbled near
            collapse in ordinary travel; an old tramp-like man,
            bare-headed, with flying coat, tugging at the lines; and, most wonderful of all, beside
            him a veiled figure, head erect, disdainful, glorious--like Marie Antoinette riding to
            the guillotine.
          With lightning intuition, Philip arose to leave the stand, but Colonel Hardy
            intervened, his concern most extraordinary, and when the mule subsided, he whispered
            with profound relief:
          "Thank God--she isn't hurt!"
          "You know her?" Philip anxiously inquired.
          The Colonel heeded not.
          "You don't display the same solicitude for the driver,
            Colonel?"
          "Philip, you once promised anything I'd ask--banish those people from
            your memory forever!"
          It was so frivolous, so foreign to his friend of iron, that the young man smiled; or was it at the thought that while the veiled
            figure's bearing had something in it far removed from Happyville, he should
            have associated the Incomparable with that flying scrap-pile? It was profane--she who
            was possible in nothing less than a chariot!
          It proved to be no time for levity.
          "Don't laugh--please!"
          The Colonel's agitation was greater than the day he had warned Philip in the
            office.
          "Do you know," he said in a little while, "scenes like that
            upset me--they suggest a battery going into action." He fumbled the Loyal
            Legion button in his coat lapel; "Philip, that was a great
            speech--magnifcent!"
          Then another song floated forth--a little of the music of the spheres--"God be
            with you till we meet again."
          
          "Father" Post lifted his hands for the benediction, after which
            people surged toward the balloon ascension. The huge bag filled, tugging harder and
            harder at its ropes; an aeronaut in red tights scampered nimbly about, stumbling over
            youthful admirers. Then Newt Gillispie, chairman of sports, stepped forth:
          "Ladies and Gentlemen: Louis Lavachela--King of the Air!"
          The "king" etended both hads in a sweeping bow.
          "Stand back!" cried Newt.
          The patch of darkness shot skyward, Lavachela swinging from the trapeze in a maze of
            tricks. It arose till the whole thing was like a spider clinging to a pear, then a
            current of air bore it safely over the river, when the spider seemed to sink toward
            earth, and a sigh swept over the upturned faces. Something
            like a morning-gloy upside down, spread out of nothingness above the spider and was
            wafted jauntily downward. The pear-like object above it turned and from its sides issued
            a thread of gray; then it collapsd, staggering in the sky, like an old hat tossed out of
            Jupiter in house-cleaning time.
          Hundreds raced through the covered bridge to greet the aeronaut; buggies were backed,
            children called, farewells exchanged, and "Old Settlers Day" was
            past.
          
          They had walked to the foot of Philip's stairway before Colonel Hardy spoke:
            "Possibly I was a little rough back there." Then he continud, by way
            of justification: "If the young woman behind that mule will give the world in
            joy just a hundredth part of what the old man gave it in
            grief, she will be a saint--and I have every faith that she will. And if you will only
            let me have charge of this love affair--you will thank me some day. Since you hesitate,
            my young friend, I'll tell you I happen to be in charge of it this very minute;
            you could not find her in a thousand years!"
          "Who was the old man?"
          The Colonel struggled to appear indifferent. "Oh, just a man named Shanks--the
            only man I never speak to--and never can!"
          "And the young woman?"
          "Remember, Philip, I asked you to banish them from your mind for
            ever!"
          Within the hour numerous citizens turned toward Philip's office, but his door
            was locked against them as his mood was locked against felicitations.
          
          "Shanks!" "Shanks!" He repeated the name as if to
            beguile the air to solve the riddle. He sat by the window, and the hills rolled away
            into a sea of conjecture. The smoke from his corn-cob pipe curled into countless
            letters, "S." He sat till the sun went down and the evening star came
            forth--and they both began with "S."
          "But no," he soliloquized, "her name may be Stanley--or
            Stuart--something like that--but 'Shanks'--that is
            unthinkable."
        
        
        
          CHAPTER III
          PHILIP forgot his supper; he sat and watched the shadows widen into
            twilight and the twlight deepen into night. The thrill of triumph was in his heart;
            there was a tide in every finger-tip. He had not heeded a familiar step in the hall and
            id not turn till Michael Halfpap entered, his eyes more illumined than he lamp he
            bore.
          "You've made the greatest speech Happyville ever heard; announce that
            you're candidate for anything and it's yours!"
          A glow came over Philip's face; he reflected how the Old Settlers had slept in
            the full oratorical glare of United States Senator Bolivar and a thought came tumbling down from the Mountains of Audacity--the great are
            only others far off!
          "Mike!" he exclaimed; "you're right--go tell
            Colonel Hardy!"
          In the fulness of time, that is, next day, a public uprising--Colonel Hardy and M.
            Halfpap--entered Philip's office.
          The former had brushed his white hair back and his bearing bespoke a thirst for action.
            Striding to the window, he lifted his head imperiously. "Philip, do you want to
            go to Congress?"
          Philip grew suddenly non-committal. "Why, Colonel, you bewilder me; my tastes
            are all in the line of my profession; I--"
          "What!" demanded the warrior, striking the floor with his cane.
          Michael's gray eye suggested Evangeline in the alms-house; the brown one,
            Mirabeau in the Assembly.
          
          Philip arose, and paced the floor. "As I was about to say--here we have the
            two great parties: you, Colonel, stand for Republicanism, while Mr. Halfpap is the very
            embodiment of Democracy; this is, therefore, a national demand, and, fellow countrymen,
            I dare not retreat!"
          And so it came to pass that a room eight by twelve, with floor in the nude, a virgin
            safe, a Titian stove, the most introspective of Lincolns, two Venus de Miloed chairs,
            and a candid vest in a broken window, ceased to be a bazaar of equitable relief.
          After his "fellow countrymen" had departed, the freshly hewn Pillar
            of the Republic sat as if dazed, till a breeze blew the candid vest into his lap, when
            deftly replacing it, he locked the door.
          Long years before, a Congressman had visited Philip's father; the children had eaten the evening meal in awe; they had all sat in the
            front row at the school-house meeting--and that stranger had become President!
          A phantom struggled out of Halfpap's lamp, smiling as best a phantom could in
            a broken chimney.
          The evening was growing cool; the "Pillar" sprang behind the mountain
            scene, returning with not one or two, but a whole armful of cigar-boxes--a friendly
            tradesman's contribution--and in an instant the stove was roaring.
          
          An announcement is like a plunge into the river, and public opinion's
            "seven ages" are ever the same: first, boisterous laughter; second,
            doubt of genuineness; third, admonition that one may yet retire; fourth, reaction that
            it is a free country; fifth, assurance that it cannot be harmful; sixth, belief that there is possibility of success, and seventh, eternal
            devotion from the start.
          The Happyille 'R ng," also the Trumpet, the
            official organ, were for Congessman Morrow. For twenty years he had kept what others
            wanted--a long time to commit the unpardonable sin--a feat calling for constant
            organization and dexterous manipulation of patronage, the Congressman's
            viewpoint of public affairs being the same from which the Alderney contemplates the
            clover crop.
          There were six counties in the district and two candidates besides Morrow and
            Daniel--Judge Clark and "Commodore" Luke Bun, an auctioneer, both of
            whom had for many years sought to west from Morrow the constituency which he had the
            honor and nervous prostration to represent.
          
          The judge was sixty and ponderous, while the "Commodore," ten years
            his junior, was wiry and sad-visaged. Clark and Bun assured Philip that their real
            desire was to defeat Morrow, and promised to nominate him if neither of them could win
            after a "fair trial."
          
          Philip had ridden day and night, canvassing by roadside and fireside, speaking in
            barns, mills, school-houses--wherever his peers assembled--and now with the primaries
            only one week away, he was confident of a solid county delegation, and if Clark and Bun
            held to their pledges, victory seemed assured.
          "It is too good to be true," he observed to Colonel Hardy, as they
            sat in his office that night. "This situation is so plain that no man can be
            misled, yet the 'Ring' is confident. Our
            fight has been from the house-top--maybe there's water in the
            basement."
          "Nonsense--it's all over but the shouting!"
          They were rising to leave, when a rider galloped through the covered bridge and brought
            up beneath the window. Rain beat against the glass, and swaying street-lights cast long
            black lines over the town.
          "Some fellow coming for the doctor," said Hardy, clasping his
            umbrella more tightly.
          A cry came up from the curb, its anxiety seeming to blend with the complaining
            night-wind--"Whur's Dan'l's office?"
          Philip raised the window, and gust of rain swept across the room. An old man, mounted
            upon a white mule, held up a home-made lantern of tin, and through its irregular slits the light escaped in strange patterns.
          It's 'Old Settlers' Day' Shanks--mule and
            all!"
          "He's come ten miles--call him up--but I cant see him." The
            Colonel stepped into Halfpap's room and closed the door.
          The storm-beaten old fellow shuffled up the stairs and half ran down the hall-way, the
            water dripping from his clothes and gurgling in his shoes. Placing the lantern upon the
            floor, he removed an ancient, funnel-shaped hat. The tramp of many seasons had worn away
            the boundary betwen it crown and brim. His face was sharp and pale and anxious. Out of
            breath, he brushed thin, white matted hair back from a brow, wrinkled and veined. A drop
            of rain swelled upon his cheek-bone, then burst and trickled down his slanting face to the kind of a mouth men had in days of
            "Yes" and "No"--days of action--real men--miracles
            of heart and brain, wrought by trees and rivers and the sky--by peril, toil, and
            solitude.
          His old, gray eyes were alert and prone to challenge objects rather than regard them;
            they hurriedly searched the room and the young man's face. Then a cry escapd
            the withered lips, "My God, Dan'l-who air you!" The bushy,
            silver brows contracted and Shanks peered hard into Philip's face. Advancing,
            he placed a trembling hand upon the candidate's temple, then stepped back, his
            face twitching as with pain.
          To the young man standing against the window his guest seemed half mummy--half
            memory.
          "What can I do for you, Mr. Shanks?"
          
          "Oh, I fergot--you put me so much in mind uv a boy I ust to know--it wuz a
            long time ago." There was apology in his tone.
          Then his eyes danced brightly. "Dan'l, I knew it wuz a lie,
            an' 'at time wuz short--so I come to-night. It's turrible
            out, I tell you; roads is orfel; Pigeon Crick bridge gone out--had to ford--nearly went
            over the dam."
          Tapping Philip's breast wit a bony finger, Shanks leaned close and whispered
            with glee: "They're both at my place now--the ole toll-gate at Pisgah,
            you know--and they're drunk as b'iled owls. They druv up four hour
            ago--Spotts, 'at runs the Trumpet, an'
            'nuther feller; they wuz a-comin' back frum Bowser's Mill;
            storm hit em an' they ast to stay all night. I put up their horse an'
            they set by the fire, an' fin'ly Spotts
            fetched a bottle out an' they swigged an' talked an' made fun
            o' you, an' fin'ly Spotts pointed to a bunde
            a-layin' by the fire an' says he: 'Purty cute o' me
            a-havin' 'em printed at Bowser's Mill--no danger uv it
            gittin' out ahead o' time.'
          "Well, Spotts kep' a-soakin' his hide an'
            a-tellin' how smart he wuz, an' at last he fetched a bill out uv his
            pocket an' read out loud, an' they laughed like fools an'
            says: 'We'll beat Dan'l a million miles!' Purty soon
            they went to sleep, an' I got up an' found the bill on the
            floor--an' I slipped out--an' hyere I am. They're
            goin' to put one uv 'em in every Trumpet the morning
            the delegates is to be made an' send 'em to the country. Spotts says
            he: 'All we have to do is to bust a hole in this
            county.'"
          
          Shanks unbuttoned his coat and a folded newspaper fell from round his waist.
          "Let it go, Dan'l. It's jist my underwear.
          "Hyere it is," he drew a folded slip from the lower of two vests.
          Philip read, then mopped his forehead and read aloud for the benefit of the
            Colonel:
          "PHILIP DANIEL RETIRES
          "At the threshold of what promised to be a victorious campaign, Mr. Philip
            Daniel discovers that he is not old enough to go to Congress and hereby authorizes the
              Trumpet to announce his retirement from the race.
          "When seen last night, Mr. Daniel regretted the matter, more on account of his
            friends than anything else, and said: 'I have no ambition now but the success
            of the Party, and I believe that it demands the renomination of our faithful representative. Therefore I ask my friends to select
            delegates who will vote for Capt. Philetus Morrow.'"
          Philip gazed at his strange deliverer in silence, and a smile painted his astonishment
            over into gratitude. "God bless you, Mr. Shanks!"
          "I'm fer you, Dan'l, an' after you win mebbe you
            kin help me with my claim ag'in' the gov'ment--it's
            sacred-like, but 'Republics is ungrateful,' you know. I done
            sumpin' onct, the like o' which wuz never heerd tell uv; I'll
            give you full charge; I'll make you the most talked-uv man in the United States
            o' North Ameriky!"
          Grasping the old fellow's hand, Philip declared with an earnestness which
            betrayedhis fears: "I'll do anything I can!"
          "Then I'll see you at my 'stablishment at two
            o'clock the afternoon yer term begins,"
            said Shanks, wrapping the folded newspaper round his waist.
          Something in his optimism caused Philip to start.
          "Don't," pleaded Shanks. "Yer lookin' at
            me now like they all do. I'm queer, but it ain't all the
            time--I've jist got Aprile weather in my head--it tilts a little now
            an' then--I kin allus see it comin' like a squall over the water.
            Brain gits dark an' wavy-like an' rocks till everything breaks
            an' the racket skeers the camels--God on'y knows how many they
            is--an' they run round an' round an' kick sand in yer
            eyes--an' the clouds git off o' their rollers an' tear the
            leaves off o' the trees an' knock the fruit down 'fore
            it's ripe. It's turrible, Dan'l, when the wind blows up from
            the South!"
          Once more he sprang to place a hand on Philip's temple: "Do it
            ag'in, Dan'l--luk that way--no, you can't, I cahi- late--it wuz round hyere like--the eyes--you lukt like him
            more'n ever--God A'mighty, he wuz han'some--nuthin'
            like me--favored his mother.
          "I've allus wondered what he'd 'a' come
            to--it 'ud 'a' been sumpin' grand, I know,
            an' when I read o' yer comin' out fer Congress, they wuz
            sumpin' 'bout you that made me think o' him, an'
            though I never seen you, I sez to my ole dog, sez I: 'Button, we'll
            all be fer Dan'l.'"
          The mist suddenly melted from the old man's mind, his eyes grew steady, and
            stepping forward, he placed both hands on Philip's shoulders and smiled, as
            though he had been playing a part. When finally he spoke, it was slowly, but with
            strange authority.
          "Dan'l, you kin do me a turrible favor; you kin let me belong to the
            worl' ag'in; I'm all right, you see; let me do it--nominate
            you fer Congress--it'll be like doin' it
            fer him. I kin handle that wind--I won't let it blow up frum the
            South--'pon my word, Dan'l; I'll hold it hyere in the hollow
            o' my hand an choke it!" He closed his fist till the knuckles snapped.
            "Tell you what I'll do!" His eyes lighted with triumph.
            "I'll have her come; it can't blow when
            she's with me--the Lord made her to order, Dan'l!"
          He held the lantern up before Philip's face as though they were standing in
            the dark, and the latter marvelled at the cry of this old mans soul. He seemed to hold
            it in his hand to save or cast away; he looked into the keen, gray eyes which now seemed
            to expand and contract, and he thought of another hermit--one who once led a crusade.
            Then he did what kings and philosophers have done every day since the sun was made and
            ll do every day till the sun grows cold--he did the wildest
            thing in earth's fantastic range of follies--he chose an old fellow with April
            weather in his head to place him in nomination before a great convention, and as he did
            so, the boards creaked in the adjoining room and he thought of his campaign manager--and
            Shanks was the man he should have banished from his mind forever!
          "I must go back!" declared the old man, with an enthusiasm which
            laughed at years.
          "No--you will go with me; I'll care for you beast;"
            remonstrated Philip, and arm in arm they went to the American House.
          Shanks straightened till six feet of stature came strangely forth from the odds and
            ends of his body, then registered in a staggering hand: "Shanks uv Pisgah Hill,
            formerly uv Vicksburg."
          
          "Give my friend the bridal chamber," commanded Philip.
          The orator turned and clasped the candidate's hand, looked calmly into his
            face, then smiling, said: 'Da'l, I like you more an'
            more."
          "I surrender," cried Philip, returning to the office.
          "Don't worry; he's saved us, we'll handle the
            speech some way."
          "Do you know, Colonel, all the time Shanks was talking, a memory kept coming
            up, like a bubble from the bottom of the sea, and it has reached the surface this very
            minute. Old Settlers' Day wasn't the first time I saw Shanks; I saw
            you together the first time I saw either of you. It was the day the Soldiers'
            Monument was unveiled--the day General Grant came to town. You were chairman of the
            meeting, and Shanks fought his way to the stand and shook
            the hero's hand and there was a disturbance of some kind to get him away, and
            later, as the crowd was going home, he mounted the court-house steps and began speaking.
            The crowd was laughing and shouting when you came and stood by his side. You were
            furious; you waved your cane and said something like this: 'Fellow citizens, if
            we must be brutal, let us fly at each other's throats, but let us not laugh at
            each other's infirmities!' I was reading fables then, and as the crowd
            slunk away, you reminded me of the lion speaking to the wolves."
          "Yes, I remember; Shanks was telling his marvellous dream of the Civil
            War."
          "That's what he means by the wind blowing up from the
            South--that's why he registers from Vicksburg?"
          "Yes, that's it."
          
          "What unbalanced him?"
          "That isn't exactly the word, Philip."
          "Tell me more of my orator."
          "Once upon a time, there was a man who asked another to forget all about an
            old fellow he saw in a run-away and though he didn't mean to do it, that other
            forgot this request and made that old man his master. But it's all right; I
            might have done the same if he had talked to me that way--come, let's go;
            it's only two minutes till to-morrow."
          
          Shanks's exposure enabled Philip to utterly rout the "Ring"
            by exploding the trick in a series of public meetings, and Spotts, of the Trumpet, left for the West, "to attend the bedside of a favorite
            aunt."
          Driving home through the warm star-light from the last of these indignation rallies, Philip grew nervous as they approached Pisgah Hill. It was
            the time appointed to cancel the oratorical engagement with Shanks. He and the Colonel
            had lavished their ripest wits upon a plan. Through the window they saw the old man
            engaged in an earnest appeal. A little nearer they paused. He was addressing many
            people--more by many hundred fold than could have possibly crowded into his little room,
            and yet he was alone save for Button, the dog, lying full length before the
            fireplace.
          There was rapt attention on the part of the unseen audience in the buggy.
          After a pause, Shanks declaimed his speech again.
          The sentences flowed one after the other, even and natural as waves; they were quaint
            and musical and full of power, and at the end Hardy said: "Fate has sent you a queer orator, but I believe the best she has--drive
            on!
          "I'm sorry I can never speak to him, but his place is at the head of
            the column--he shall march by my side--if he will."
          As they rolled past the half-open door, Shanks was lighting a corn-cob pipe, and after
            a little while, when Philip turned, he saw a tall figure standing upon the portico of
            the toll-house, holding up a queer tin lantern.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER IV
          EACH of the four candidates received the solid support of his county,
            the two counties having no candidates dividing their votes. A great circus tent was
            pitched in the Hiltown Park and head-quarters were at the Sunlight Hotel, where,
            ascending the stairs, one's eye met Judge Clark's room, only to be
            summoned away by "Commodore" Bun's gayly decorated parlor;
            Congressman Morrow came next, and then Philip's palatial establishment, where
            the hall ended in a wide arch.
          Morrow soon called upon Daniel and observed:
          "Wait and see if these gentlemen merely wish to defeat me, as they
            claim."
          
          It was so inspiring; everybody watched everybody else.
          Philip displayed high statesmanship by writing a speech behind a screen while his
            reception committee explained that he was calling on a blind man. His masterpiece began:
            "In a republic, the office should always seek the man!" It was
            arranged for victory or defeat; it was of fute-like construction; by removing one piece,
            it turned from an acceptance to an endorsement of another's nomination.
          What a night it was before the battle! There were roses and fags, orchestras and glee
            clubs, while a sea of children--most of them prospective candidates--swept along with
            the rest. It was fine to recall incidents of the canvass with scores who passed, and
            Philip made a vote by remembering the name of an old gentleman and asking what he received for the load of hay on top of which he had met
            him six weeks before.
          His bed was a fittng period to it all, a thoughtful partisan having draped it with
            horseshoes of all descriptions.
          Next morning's "specials" brought multitudes, and
            Happyville's was glorious as it marched down the hill, Colonel Hardy and Shanks
            in the lead, swinging their canes like gallants out for a stroll. Then came the
            delegates with long ribbon badges, and after them throngs of shouting friends from all
            parties, interspersed with bands and drum corps. On the balcony of the Sunlight, Philip
            reviewed them and turned to Michael Halfpap with thumping heart:
          "How handsome ones friends are!"
          "Yes. And there's something you will never see again--that banner,
              'Daniel and Harmony,' and walking
            behind it, side by side, Hardy and Shanks, who haven't spoken for forty
            years."
          The whole town soon surged one way, and a platform for two thousand faced the
            delegates, who were surrounded by rising seats.
          Each candidate received a fine reception, and the one moment of harmony--the
            invocation--was followed by a clash when Slateman, one of the
            "anti-Morrows," was made chairman.
          Nominating speeches were eagerly awaited, and among the thousands, alert to every phase
            of the coming battle, there was speculation regarding the identity of an old gentleman
            who sat in the front row upon the stage. His smooth, eagle face was ashy. Thin, white
            hair fell over his ears, and behind one of them he had hooked a long wisp which crossed his furrowed brow. The throat was seamed and
            shrunken like an old husk. His keen eyes sparkled over the fanning, whispering
            multitude; now and then they sought an object across the tent and finding it, a light
            would sweep his face. That odd, long "Prince Albert" coat might have
            been his wedding garment. Half collapsed in a chair, the white vest rose above the open
            collar. His legs were crossed, the basic foot tapping the stage, now in time with the
            band, now ith his on lively fancies. The peculiar habit of knitting his bushy brows was
            never more noticeable. Once a young lady interrupted his meditations to tender a
            palm-leaf fan, and later another subjected him to embarrassment by pinning a bouquet
            upon his lapel. In thanking her, he blushed and bowed till the long wisp of hair fell from behind his ear, and in replacing it he
            disarranged the entire mantle till it stood like bristles.
          He was flintlock to the core; he seemed a kinsman of Liberty Bell.
          Philip took the chair beside him. "How's the speech?"
          "Tol'able." He smiled calmly.
            "Tol'able."
          The others were placed in nomination, but it was merely trained eloquence--a thing that
            regards commas rather than cause.
          "Cass County!" the chairman called at last. Colonel Hardy arose with
            dignity and bowed toward the gentleman in the old "Prince Albert"
            coat. "Mr. Milton Shanks will speak for us."
          The latter drew himself out of the chair, link by link; speculation ceased; delegates and spectators arose and cheered; it was the tribute of
            the new heart to the old.
          Others had spoken with vehmence, but as the tall, slender form straightened, a voice of
            grandfatherly benevolence came into the atmosphere of strife.
          "Gentlemen uv the Convention:
          "History 'ud indicate 'at it's bin as hard to make
            a feller big enough to mind his own affairs as to make a Shakespeare, but mebbe tyants
            is jist sent out to wake nations up. We know that without the fellers we hate, we
            wouldn't 'a' bin worth our salt--we wouldn't
            'a' had no spunk."
          The tone grew stronger; the right hand left his pocket; the head lifted with assurance;
            the convention leaned forward in curious admiration.
          "I'm glad England wuz terrible.
          
          "I thank her fer the fire an' sense o' '76.
          "I thank her fer Washin'ton, in whose eye hungry fellers could see a
            country o' their own.
          "An' so I'm glad the Union had to be
            saved!
          "It's not fer us to ast empty sleeves if they wuz sincere ner women
            'at prayed ag'in each other--but off with our hats to all that had
            grit."
          He paused for some seconds.
          "You've made a platform--I couldn't hyear it all but I know
            it's right. The party 'at's in kin on'y go on, an
            the party 'at's out kin on'y pull back--I cahilate
            they're 'bout the same, but I didn't ust to.
          "We want the guvment to do its part an' the folks to do theirn.
          "We want a tariff to pertect us--not to rob us.
          
          "We want a dollar worth a hundred cents.
          "We want an army like we've got--one 'at raises corn between
            wars--not a standin' army--'at jist stands around.
          "We want a navy big enough to let us sleep in peace; I'd ruther see
            ships rust than have a chimbley shot off o' any hut by the sea--I'd
            give my 'stablishment to wipe out the burnin' o' my Capitol a
            hundred year ago."
          For the instant he was a Spartan, then stepped forward, slowly fanned with the
            palm-leaf, and solicitude came into his voice as, with the charm of reminiscence, he
            concluded:
          "My candidate stands fer these things; he's able; he wants to go
            ahead; we want him to, an' he will, sure as 'kingdom
            come'!
          "He's Philip Dan'l, o' Happville!
          
          "I tole him onct I'd like to see what he'd come to an I hope
            you won't make me wait too long--I'm seventy-five las'
            June."
          A smile and the orator concluded; he had spoken little more than a minute. From first
            to last his gaze had been directed to a point among the spectators, high above the
            delegates; his eyes were riveted with such intensity, it was as if something there gave
            him the power of speech. As he resumed a chair, the silence which had attended him
            seemed to increase, then it was indescribable. As they cheerd on, refusing to be
            silenced by the bands, the venerable gentleman merely knitted his brows and kept time,
            then half covered his face with a toil-knotted hand.
          "Glorious!" Philip shouted, placing his hand to the hero's
            ear.
          
          "Luk \ way out wander by that pole, Dan'l!" he replied,
            pointing a long, bony fnger, whereupon a woman in a deep poke-bonnet waved a
            handkerchief.
          "She done it, Dan'l--she kep' that wind off o'
            me!"
          "Who in the world?"
          "My gran'mother, Dan'l." A smile flickered round
            the old man's mouth.
          "I must meet her!"
          "Not now, Dan'l--some time,mebbe. Whur's my
            hat?--they's a train--I can't do nuthin hyere an' I
            can't stan' this infernal racket!"
          The applause was ebbing away as he and the woman in the poke-bonnet arose.
          "Remember, Dan'l--that claim--two o'clock sharp, the day yer
            term begins."
          The Happyville delegates gave the old fellow an ovation as he passed, and  there was an incident noted only by a few--Colonel Hardy extended
            his hand and Shanks grasped it with suprise. For a second they gazed silently into each
            other's faces, then Shanks went on. At the edge of the crowd the woman in the
            poke-bonnet took his arm.
          Then the tent was suddenly touched with magic; to its most interested soul, he whose
            future lay in its hand, this thousand-tongued monster, called a convention, which played
            with human plans, was strangely hushed. Heads, voices, lags, hopes, were insantly
            resolved into merest specks boating in a shaft of radiance flashing in upon the stage.
            The woman in the poke-bonnet loosened its strings as if to cool her throat, then she
            pushed it half back as if to tempt the sun from fields less golden, and it hurried down
            to ripple in her hair and gild the anxious beauty of her
            girlish face. She clung to the scene by the last finger-tip till Shanks impatiently
            tapped her arm, and then the Incomparable waved farewell to the Hope of Happyville.
          There was little difference among the votes. The day was warm; the sides of the tent
            walled with people; ice-water and fan merchants prospered, and men removed their coats
            when Slateman made a facetious ruling on the subject. For the first hour there was
            anxiety, but after fifty ballots the crowd leaned back for a tug-of-war.
          Finally Colonel Hardy mounted a chair.
          "For what purpose does the gentleman rise?" demanded Slateman.
          "To explain what we are about to do."
          A whisper flashed round the tent--"Morrow has won--Clark and Bun are to be punished for not having nominated Daniel."
          "We are devoted to our candidate," Hardy began, "but so are
            other gentlemen, and having cast the solid vote of this county not one but one hundred
            times, we feel--"
          "Don't you dare!" shouted a spectator, shaking his fist and
            starting general clamor.
          Without looking, Philip knew that Morrow was smiling, and in the distance saw radiant
            "Ringsters" from home.
          The decision must be unanimous; none of the delegates would look toward the stage.
          Colonel Hardy stood as if posing, and when the tumult subsided, concluded his
            remarks:
          "I was about to say, Mr. Chairman, we have decided to vote for Philip Daniel a
            million times if necessary!"
          
          The demonstration which greeted Hardy rivalled that accorded his ancient foe.
          After a while the gavel was yielded to different vice-chairmen, and when thus honored,
            Judge Sims, a Morrow leader, promised to end the deadlock at once. "It is very
            easy," he declared. "Let us cast our united votes for Captain Philetus
            Morrow!"
          For an instan it was blinding, then all stood and howled, the more enraged overturning
            benches in an effort to reach the stage. With blanched face, the judge protested, but
            neither man nor gavel could be heard and riot was imminent, when Slateman scrambled over
            the mass and resumed the chair.
          Without looking, Philip knew that Morrow was not smiling.
          With the five-hundredth ballot, a band played "Hot Time," and every
              body arose and stretched and sang. The lights blazed and
            received a cheer.
          Then the wind lifted the tent in great billows, lightning flashed; the sultry
            day's prophecy was being fulfilled.
          Despite volunteers clinging to them, great poles leaped into the air, crashing the arc
            lamps, rain streamed through the canvas, and thousands stood, holding chairs above their
            heads. A delegate moved to adjourn, but a band quickly struck up: "We
            won't go home till morning."
          But for lightning the tent was long dark, yet nobody left and it was lively with song
            and burlesque, the latter including mock speeches of withdrawal for all candidates.
          Business resumed with a vote of thanks for the "rain-proof" shelter,
            and the struggle lasted till three hours past midnight, when adjournment was taken, Philip's memory returning to the day Judge Clark and
            "Commodore" Bun had explained their real desire to be the defeat of
            Congressman Morrow.
          The "Sunlight" was carpeted with patriots; Colonel Hardy slept at the
            jail, and the occupants of Philip's bed were exceeded only by its
            horseshoes.
          It seemed but a wink till, waking, the young candidate found the room filed with smoke
            and stratagem.
          "How do you feel?" asked the delegates.
          "The outlook is perfect--but you gentlemen are free."
          Then an old farmer took the floor and determined the programme.
          "I've had two hours' sleep in the band-stand at the park and
            I'm fresh as a daisy; I move that we never quit votin' and that every
            mother's son of us' march into that tent with jaws clamped so everybody can read a declaration of war!"
          The chaplain of the second session must have expected to officiate at the first, else
            he would not have implored th delegates to "approach their task with
            deliberation."
          The balloting started as before. In a few minutes, Colonel Hardy rushed down the main
            aisle with upraised cane, after a pickpocket who had robbed him of one hundred dollars.
            In hot pursuit he turned at the edge of the tent in time to see a disloyal alternate
            delegate, empowered to vote in his absence, slipping into his chair to break the
            delegation. A longing glance at the fading thief and Hardy rushed back to seize the
            alternate by the collar and remove him to a place of safety.
          After an hour, Judge Clark and "Commodore" Bun suggested that Philip cast lots with them, but believing his prospects
            brightening, he spurned the proposal on "high moral grounds." The two
            then decided to give each other a combined vote, but gesticulated so earnestly in
            determining who should receive it first, that a dog filled the tent with vociferous
            barking. The result was ineffectual, and after being tossed back and forth, the
            delegates were dangerous to trifle with.
          Clark and Bun retired for consultation; there was no sign, but the air grew suddenly
            electric; thousands stood.
          "Prepare for the ten-hundred-and twelfth ballot," slowly called
            Slateman.
          "Baxter" County failed to get the word in time to vote for
            Daniel--there were few delegates to spare and another ballot might be fatal.
          "Cass County."
          
          Colonel Hardy announced Philip's twenty-two as if nothing could possibly be
            important.
          Sixty-nine were needed.
          "Greene County." It remained with Morrow.
          "Hunter County." These were Bun's delegates.
          "Twenty-one votes for Daniel."
          A band started to play, but was silenced.
          "Maumee County."
          "Ten for Daniel."
          Baxter and Maumee started a procession which Cass and Hunter joined, planting their
            standards with Judge Clark's delegation, whose votes would be decisive.
          "Washington County."
          Its chairman, with words of fate, mounted a table, and a half-frantic throng lifted it
            to their shoulders.
          
          "Washington County gives Philip Daniel twenty votes--all she has--and
            nominates him for Congress!"
          Countless flags appeared, decorations were stopped from pole and side wall; all the
            bands and drum corps played at once; Philip was lifted upon the shoulders of wild men;
            delegates marched together; former rival threw their arms around each other, and the
            defeated candidates pinned Daniel badges upon their coats and made the result
            unanimous.
          All the way home, musically inclined gentlemen "Marched through
            Georgia," and though Philip needed ironing, handshaking continued till the
            train rounded he cliff into Happyvile, when out of the falling night issued stange
            lights and then a wonderful serpent of gold wriggled high above the steeples, where its
            head burst into countless stars.
          
          Half carried to where the old family horse leaped with fear, the nominee was pitched
            into the saddle.
          Clear to the Soldiers' Monument it was a range of flame and color, and like a
            snow-storm turned to gold, a sea of flakes sifted through the purple air. Along the
            curbs, streams of changing fires burned even with the advancing hosts. Wagon batteries
            hissed; every belfry rang its greeting; whistles added to the pandemonium till no sounds
            were distinguishable, save those of minute-guns at the western point of the cliff. There
            was no order, nor should have been. There they were--smiling, singing, shouting,
            dancing; Republicans, Democrats, Populists, Prohibitionists; whites, blacks, preachers,
            pagans--everybody--the town, upside down--beside herself--wild!
          
          Above heads so closely packed it seemed the part of ease to walk upon them, floated the
            day's transparencies, and the faithful delegation required protection from its
            friends.
          Philip was constantly turning in response to the tempest of greetings, but in looking
            for one face, he but half saw the thousands. First he sought it along the wall of the
            "Old Cemetery," now whiter with its dresses than its marbles; then his
            eyes swept the library steps--the high school; they searched the painted, undulating,
            half-delirious throng on every side--but in vain.
          Once there was danger of a panic; it was when the street-wide torrent surged before the
            high banks of Philip's home, a rambling, white house--a light in every
            window--in the midst of gnarled and twisted apple-trees, now hung with paper
            lanterns.
          
          The doors were open; children ran through the wide hall and out upon the high portico,
            an endless line brought greetings to a time-silvered soul and wee repaid with wit and
            smile which had gone up years as steep as slant, toward heaven's grace.
          The instinctive gallantry of the multitude responded; the man on horse-back was
            forgotten; the home-coming paused while this woman in black silk and white lace, with
            rocking-chair for throne, held her court where a flag rippled above and honeysuckle hung
            its fragrance away as if in its last blooming hour.
          None of the white-dressed throng were more animated; nothing escaped her; indeed, she
            found time to wander a lifetime away where there were covered wagons and deer, and later
            a day when soldiers had come home from a great war. Yes, it
            was like that--only all were happy to-night.
          Into her arms a child now placed a sheaf of roses as red as Nature's blood
            could make; her facegrew radiant, and rising, she waved them like a girl. The crowd was
            hushed--and the old horse tried to leave the procession.
          On to the court-house they swept, where evey hero had to speak. They were reluctant to
            disperse and rockets shot over into another day.
          A few neighbors were waiting when Philip and Michael reached the Daniel home.
          "I'm so thankful to the good Lord that it came in my time,"
            said the Lady of the Portico, coming down the steps to meet them.
          "I feel as if I wanted to do something for everybody as everybody has done for
            us. But come along to the dining-room--I must show you
            something."
          The table was heaped with powers.
          "Isn't it divine to be alive!" exclaimed Halfpap.
          "Yes--but see!" Sh held up the wonderful sheaf of red roses.
          "There's the strangest card somewhere with no name to it, but
            it's a woman's hand. Oh, here it is, listen--'For
            Demosthenes's mother.' Now, who in all this broad land do you
            suppose--why, Philip, what's the matter?"
        
        
        
          CHAPTER V
          HAPPVILLE did not set its alarm-clock for next morning and veteran
            compatriots of the lark slept till nine o'clock. It is not extravagant to
            affirm that such whole-sale pillow depravity had never held the place in its clutches.
            One inhabitant, however, stirred earlier than usual. His eyes opened upon a new world;
            the day came out of the east eagerly as delight, and entering Philip's bed
            room, roused the roses of it faded wall-paper to former brightness. That waking was
            worth all his life before. He had drifted from a dream of silver into a dawn of gold; it
            was like a thousand mornings bidding him to old fishing-trips; it was pris- matic as ecstasy; fragrant of fulfilment. Actuality walked through
            his brain like a lord; repressed longings thronged forth to claim their own, and out
            from her mystic treasure-house, Memory flung the treasured visions of days gone by. The
            light, stretching in a shutter pattern across the floor, had a sun-beam from every happy
            hour he had known; he was at once all ages he had ever been.
          From fine excess he stretched and said: "He was a prophet who called this
            Happyville."
          With that license so common in a republic, a fly made bold to light upon the youthful
            statesman's face, and he brushed it aside with a gentleness which the
            philosopher could have ascribed to nothing less than the chastening touch of an abiding
            love.
          
          A newsboy's cry came up from the street: "Extra Trumpet--all about the convention--all about Daniel!"
          "Fame," he murmured, smiling.
          The wonderful sheaf of red roses was in the centre of the table and the lady of the
            Portico wore her silvery crown more lightly than ever. Breakfast passed with radiant
            glances--flowers of understanding which jest at words.
          He was two hours in reaching his office; every gate had its waiting group, and as he
            sped along on air, little children whispered: "There he goes!"
          Beneath the slanting glass roof, a throng of admirers awaited.
          With thoughts swarming about a poke-bonet, he reflected: "Why wait till my
            term begins? I'll take up Shanks's claim this very day!"
          Up the sidewalk, a newspaper, widely opened, diverted pedestrians from their course, and behind it walked the Warwick of Happyville.
          "Advance and give the counter-sign!" called Philip.
          "Which way?" inquired Colonel Hardy.
          "Pisgah!"
          Why, you're not due till next March!"
          "I know, but after that speech of Shanks', I feel it my duty
            to--"
          "Tut, tut, Philip." The Colonel's penetrating eye punctured
            the explanation. "Go ahead. But wait, I'm going to
            'surprise' you to-night--a little supper at my room--just twenty-five
            of the 'Old Guard.'" A few steps more and the Colonel
            turned.
          "Damn it, Philip, give Shanks my regards and tell him to come to the
            party!"
          He would find them just in time for dinner, Philip rejected, spinning out of town like a courier. He would sit at the Incomparable's
            right, of course; she would be looking for him as surely as April look for rain. He
            arefully surveyed his new clothes; the elegance of four generations looked down upon
            him, from the old watch with gold face and massive chain to the rose which he had
            plucked from the wonderful sheaf. He would hear Shanks's story as soon as
            possible, and take the Incomparable for a drive. She had inspired him with ambition; she
            had enabled Shanks to win laurels as his orator; the thread of her life had been woven
            into the fabric of his own in a fashion as beautiful as it was mysterious--and had he
            not won her on Old Settlers' Day, when he pulled that wishbone with Fate?
          He dusted his eloquence and resolved to do or die at the foot of the hill, where Pigeon Creek splashed through sharp rocks and steep banks
            waved with ferns and columbine. Should he do it while driving out or back? That would be
            for mature reflection--every step must evolve its own strategy. Most likely she would
            come to the door. Should he call her Christian name? Wat was it?--what was her
            surname?
          He grew exceedingly hot.
          While dining, should he appear blithe or pensive? He decided to be blithe; this would
            inspire the instinct of unrest and enable him by lightning gallantry in the buggy o
            storm the violet battlements and plant the frayed banner of affectio where rapture would
            nestle in its folds forevermore.
          He snapped the whip at a bumble-bee
          Who in the world was she?
          
          He grew exceedingly cold.
          After all, that was merely incidental; they had loved each other always--he had seen
            her twice. It would be far different if they were strangers--if he had seen her only
            once.
          How should he begin? There was a line in the "Rubaiyat" which he
            liked; still, her Christian teaching might find offence in that rhapsody of doubt.
            Again, she might be familiar with the passage and he was uncerain just how it ran!
          Nearing the destination, he saw a house in course of construction. Of course--he would
            start with a discussion of architecture, declaring for a colonial porch and a hall in
            the centre. Moonlit hours with gentle souls had convinced him that they leaned
            Colonially. In the event she preferred "Queen Anne," he would
            yield--yes, she could even have alcoves! Then he would
            touch lightly on Fate, thus turning the edge of impulsive haste--everybody knew how busy
            Fate was.
          
          Most of the toll-houses were gone, their common end being to serve the highest bidder
            for smoke-house or summer kitchen, but the one at Pisgah had survived the advent of free
            roads. From down the pike, Philip saw Shanks sitting beneath the landmark's
            projecting beak. He was smoking a pipe, and a rusty cat made endless figure eights
            around his carpet slippers. A rickety bench leaned against the shack; the porch floor
            was filled with splinters, and wide cracks facilitated the cricket serenade beneath. The
            pipe had that potency which age alone imparts to human institutions. It would have been
            difficult for the Hilltown conven- tion to recognize its
            orator; the splendor of two days before was hopelessly lost. Brown trouser-legs extended
            beneath others which once were gray, and the vests were buttoned alternately or not at
            all. Over these was a corduroy coat which the true hunter wears whether afield or
            asleep. There was a sartorial happiness in this heap of yesterdays, never found in a
            parlor, since one could not imagine warer and garments as ever apart, while any
            addition--a cravat, for instance, round his standing flannel collar--would have been as
            grotesque as a skirt upon the shell-bark hickory tree across the road.
          Philip had pictured the old man as he had sat upon the stage, and this transformation
            filled him with strange disappointment. Standing in momentary contemplation, he had a
            sudden dread, for not only had the daguerro- type become
            the scrap-pile, but something gray fitting over the nervous face warned him that the
            "wind was blowing from the south."
          All was silent within the house; a cloud passed over Philips spirits--the Incomparable
            had not expected him.
          Inserting a thumb into the bowl of his pipe and puffing vigorously, Shanks plunged into
            the issue at hand.
          "Wheat's jumpin'; you kin 'most see it; warm rain
            last night; blackbirds bin a-kitin' north all day; glad it's spring,
            Dan'l; older a feller gits, gladder he's apt to be.
          "Settin' out hyere a-smokin' like makes me think o'
            Vicksburg--it's all as fresh as yisterday. You see, I'd bin
            a-settin' round waitin' fer Grant to do sumpin', an'
            fin'ly I sez to myself: 'If anything's did hyere, Shanks,
            you'll haf to do it yerself.'
          
          "I didn't want to be hard on Grant an' I sez, easy-like:
            'Why you bin foolin' round?'
          "I recollec' how he turned; he wuz a-settin' on a
            camp-stool; an' sez he: 'Shanks, what do you cahilate?'
          "'I'd do sumpin'!' sez I.
          "He smoked on a bit, but I seen that it took holt like, an' he up
            an' sez he: 'My God, Shanks, why ain't you tole me this
            'fore now?--it's the on'y plan!'
          "Well, I went back expectin' big things, but nuthin' wuz
            did, an' there I wuz 'a-champin' o' the
            bit,' as the feller sez, an' I went back, an' 'fore
            I could say a word, Grant up ag'in an' sez he: 'Shanks,
            I'm cahilatin' hard--gimme three days--I won't ast
            'nuther favor.'
          "An' so time went by an' nuthin' come of it,
            an' at last, one day 'fore sun-up, I put on my hat an' walked
            out o' camp an' kep' on goin' till there I wuz in front o' Vicksburg--an' then the whole
            shebang blazed away; they wuz shells an' minies an' chain-shot,
            an' one of 'em tuk off my hat.
          "I never knowed what fear wuz--Shankses wuz all that way, never much fer money
            but a heap fer spunk--an' sez I to myself: 'I'll jist let em
            egshaust their amminition.'
          "But the Johnnies seen my scheme an' things quieted down till they
            wuzn't more'n fifty guns a-trained on me, I cahilate, an'
            then a signal went up frum Vicksburg a-sayin': 'Cease
            firin'--it's Shanks hisself!'
          "Well, I set down, an' purty soon a passel o' fellers come
            a-ridin' out o' the town an' I up an' rekonized
            Pemberton--Gin'rul, you know--an when he got within talkin' range, he
            up an' sez he: 'Shanks, ain't it 'bout time me
            an' you wuz endin' this?'
          
          "I wanted to feel him out, an' a-drawin' myself up, sez I:
            'Pemberton, you ain't a bad feller, but if you don't end it
            quick, I'm goin' to do sumpin'.'
          "Lordy, how it bit him--bit him to the quick--an' sez he:
            'Shanks, don't hit a feller when he's down--yer
            plan's the on'y one I been afeerd uv, an' I cahilate
            they's nuthin' left but to give up.'
          "'I'd 'a' tole you as much,' sez
            I--on'y I wuz afeerd you'd think I wuz prejudiced like.'
          "Fin'ly he up an' sez he: 'Shanks, I allus noticed
            you don't carry no staff--the boys has of'en wondered why it
            wuz.'
          "'Well,' sez I, 'if you want to go
            some'er's, you allus haf to wait fer 'em to fix up,
            an' then again they make too much racket--I do my best work a-slippin'
            round-a-bein' at large like.'
          
          'I never seen it that way 'fore now, sez he.
          "An' he called up a saplin' all covered with fancy-work,
            an' sez he: 'Tell the whole pack to clear out.'
          "Then I heerd sumpin', an' we got up an' looked
            behind some bushes an' there stood Grant. Mad! Well, I cahilate.
          "'Grant,' sez I, you don't do nuthin' but
            smoke, an' then you hang round when some other feller tries to do
            sumpin'.'
          "He got red like. 'Shanks,' sez he, I don't want no
            hard feelin's; I jist come out to look fer you. We knowed you'd keep
            on a-goin' an' the army got skeered bein' left alone--but I
            don't want to interrup' yer conversation with yer
            friend.'
          "I had to interduce him; Pemberton didn't ketch the name at first;
            then I give Grant a luk an' he walked off a piece
            an' stood there a-hackin' jimpson weeds with his sword, an'
            then he called me over. 'Shanks,' sez he, 'I bin
            a-thinkin' if yer goin' to do sumpin' mebbe you'd
            better take my badge.' But I wouldn't tech it--no, sir!
          "When we wuz alone, Pemberton sez he: 'I bin a-diggin' with
            that army till I've got 'tached to it--but,' sez he,
            'it 'pears like rain--let's call the whole business
            off!'
          "An' we shuk hands.
          "When I wuz off 'bout forty rod, he called back an' sez he:
            'Shanks, would it be legal uv a public holiday?'
          "An' that's how we fixed the Fourth o'
            July."
          Throughout the recital, Philip had listened with an ear bent toward the half-open door,
            but all was silent.
          
          Shanks refilled his pipe and resumed: "I wouldn't take his sword.
            I'll never fergit how that fetched him; he choked up like an' sez he:
            'Shanks, yer more'n a man o' action; yer a man o'
            feein's; I'd like to have you know my folks.'
          "An' that's my claim, Dan'l. I ain't heerd
            a word uv it fer a long time--Presidents all seem to have sumpin'
            ag'in' me personal like--I give you full charge--an'
            that's all."
          Philip surveyed him sadly and promised to do his best, then he arose and delivered
            Colonel Hardy's invitation to the "surprise party," but
            Shanks shook his head and grew suddenly absorbed in a newspaper.
          "You've lived here a long time?"
          "Yep, quite a spell," came the answer from behind the sheet.
          "Isn't it rather lonesome?" young man trembled at this question calculated to answer his own misgivings.
          "We've never noticed it, I cahilate."
          The voice was inclined to be sharp, but a glow ran through Philip's heart--she
            was there!
          He resumed the chair, then grew gallant and rather loud.
          "Of course, with such a companion, one would never care to see anybody
            else!"
          Shanks lowered the paper and knitted his white brows half diviningly.
          "Just you two?" persisted Philip, wishing to divert the searching
            eyes.
          "Yep--jist me an' my--my private sec'etary."
          Something less than color swept the aged face and his gaze kindled with the kindliest
            light of the day. Shanks was evidently pleased with this new desig- nation of the Incomparable, and as for himself, Philip preferred it
            to that of "grandmother."
          With half a smile he added: "'Scuse me, Dan'l, I'll
            interduce you."
          Then he laid bare every nerve in Philip's body; there was an impulse to
            redress the affront--Shanks irreverenty whistled for his private secretary.
          A rasping spring behind him announced the opening screen door; his heart leaped--at
            last he was to meet the dearest mortal in the world; he arose with burning cheek and
            turned--but only to clutch the post and gasp, and greet a shambling, liver-dotted hound
            with frigid snout and ears like palm-leaf fans. The animal rapped for order, his air
            bespeaking apology for having detained the conference; the rusty cat weighing such
            professions of amity with fine care, then resuming her task with arched back and stiffness of tread.
          Shanks commanded: "Button, shake hands with yer Congressman."
          The old dog slanted his head, turned a protesting eye toward Philip, and wearily lifted
            the left paw in performance of his solitary trick.
          "He's very bright--you should be proud of him," he managed
            to observe.
          Shanks leaned forward and peered into the pale face before him, and then, as if
            satisfied with the result of the investigation, turned and rocked vigorously.
          As Philip arose, the "Hero of Vicksburg" looked far away and slowly
            said:
          "I druv her off, Dan'l--she won't come back no
            more-never!"
          "Won't you tell me something more--just a word?"
          Shanks shook his head. "I can't, Dan'l.--An' 'bout my claim--let it go till yer term
            begins."
          He went inside and closed the door.
          Colonel Hardy had lived at the American House ever since a death long before, and this
            night his rooms were thrown together, and the table graced with old linen, china, and
            silver unpacked for the first time since they were put away. There was haircloth
            furniture which had loomed into all-pervading prominence since the
            "antique" habit had sent Happyville in penitent haste to its
            scrap-piles, a rose-wood melodeon with curved legs, a panel mirror trimmed in
            time-deepened gold with sleeping lions on it, and a banjo clock upon whose pendulum box
            a gentleman in knickerbockers, powdered wig, long coat, ruffles, buckles, staff, and
            three-cornered hat handed a fower to an adorable yellow
            satin miss in great snow bonnet. The case was puttied and bandaged, its bulging crystal
            seeming to lean forward to listen, and with defiant eagle on top, it was priceless.
          What is more the soul of time than the decrepit veteran that has kept it?
          The great city supplied the feat; seasons met in the menu and there
            was excitement when the strawberry stepped upon the lobster's tail.
          Long after midnight the party ended, but the host insisted that Philip stay. He pressed
            a button when they were alone, saying: "I want a little more to wash something
            off the tip of my tongue--something that's been hanging there a long time.
          "My boy, it's often seemed as if in the rush of things, the Almighty
            has made mistakes in saying who should live and who should
            die--who should have children and who should not. There are countless lonely men and
            women in this world--and few who haven't some make-believe offspring; old
            hearts play with the strangest dolls that ever were. They may go near young folks and
            through their hands hold on to life, or they may just watch over them from afar.
          "I've said a thousand times, as some smiling, shiny-faced youngster
            has hopped along the street: 'He's like mine would have been--only the
            hair would have been like this or the eyes like that.' I always wanted a boy
            and a girl--and do you know where I found the boy?--the stangest place in the
            world--upon a bridge. He walked right into my life, without ringing the doorbell, and
            wanted five hundred dollars to buy stock in a circus. Philip,  you will never know the happiness it gave me to sign that note.
            After I had walked away with blood coursing through parts of my body long a desert, I
            turned to watch you; I wished the amount had been ten times as much--and I adopted you
            on the spot.
          "But the girl was first--she was placed in my arms, so to speak."
          He filled two glasses and resumed: "And how glorious it may all be now in my
            old days--I've a toast just for you and me, though I wanted to drink it before
            the crowd--You love her; may she love you--and may I live to see
            it!'"
          A light which did not come from the green lamp-shade mantled the face of the tall young
            man who arose to run a hand through his hair and walk the length of the room.
          "Colonel, I've had nothing but riddles
            all day--tell me something real!"
          "Why, Philip, you've seen her since I--in fact, I never saw her face
            at all--it isn't exactly necessary, you know, for all the children of these
            adoptions really to exist--some of them play in the sand when they are little--and
            others--just in the air."
          It was difficult to read the speaker's face for clouds of smoke, yet his
            expression was far from levity as his heart was far from evil.
          Philip slowly returned from the end of the room.
          "Tell me her name."
          "Assuming that she exists, I never knew it."
          "She has never written to you?"
          "She does not know that I am in the world."
          Philip lighted a cigar and leaned against the mantel; the
            color left his face, and, for the first time, he addressed his benefactor in a tone of
            impatience.
          "Colonel, you've been drinking; you've played with a matter
            which is more to me than all the honors in the world; it's getting late--I must
            go."
          "Be patient! I've had a fine time to-night; it's been new
            life, and under the spell I've told you more than I should--and less too.
          "Philip!" He shouted the name as if that most alert soul were asleep.
            "You said I'd been drinking--do you recall the play we saw last
            Christmas?"
          "Yes, Colonel; it was 'Garrick.'"
          "Well, he played drunk to disgust the girl who loved him; I've played
            it to see if you really cared for her--and now I know."
          
          Swiftly drawing up a chair till his knees touched those of his friend, Philip anxiously
            asked: "Is she related to Shanks?"
          "God help us, man!" exploded the Colonel. "You've
            seen them both--isn't it miracle enough for such different people to come into
            the same world?"
          "Yes," the youth replied, dejectedly, "I suppose it is.
          "Colonel, doesn't death end all differences?"
          "Of course."
          "And isn't insanity worse than death?"
          "He's not insane!"
          "When have you talked to him?"
          "Not lately--not in more than forty years. Understand--it's not a
            grudge; that's easily cured--a word or a bullet. This is
            soul-sickness--it's incurable."
          
          Slowly lowering his head, he soliloquized: "Colonel, you've been
            drinking; Philip says so and Philip ought to know."
          He arose and walked to the mirror. "Yes, Colonel, your hair's on end;
            I'll brush it; your tie's crooked; I'll straighten it; your
            eyes are queer--but I can't fix them--and you're the fellow who had
            his pocket picked at the Hilltown convention--well, here's to you, just the
            same--I knew you a long time ago."
          The Colonel raised the glass to his reflection. Without turning, he added:
            "You're a prince, Philip, for rising to that toast."
          With hands behind him the old fighter crossed and recrossed the floor.
          "Philip, I've taken too much--not because it's intoxicating,
            but because it's memory water. When I take a little, old orchards bloom again and I'm a child, walking beside the fairest
            soul that ever flowered in womanhood--and that's sublime. I take some more and
            up springs a comradeship with a neighbor boy; we hunt; we fish; we trap; we sleep
            together--and that's fine. I take a little more and we finish the old log
            school--that neighbor boy and I; we sit on the rail fence--I can see it
            all--it's May; we tie up our books; we untie the future--that's where
            our lines cross--we both want to go to West Point; then that neighbor boy gives way for
            me--and that's the dearest memory possible.
          "I should stop with the recollection of that sacrifice; I should drink no
            more, but I do--and it's too late; all the power on earth will not kep it down;
            up it comes--that terrible thing--his nameless crime--up from church- yard graves rise those innocents--Oh, Philip, that act was patented
            in hell!"
          The Colonel sank into a chair and buried his face in his hands. It seemed an hour he
            sat in silence, then slowly resumed:
          "And you think he's crazy; you should have known him in childhood;
            his mind ran away with the teachers. You will soon see men in the Capitol of your
            country--great men from all nations.
          "Some night at a president's reception, look them over and remember I
            said this man named Shanks was the brightest of the bright, and but for that one thing
            might have been a great figure--but come; let's finish this."
          Emptying the bottle, he leaned forward, his elbow on the arm of the chair; then he
            whirled the wine between his thumb and fnger and spoke with deep afection. "She's a great woman, Philip--beautiful clear
            through--the beauy that age will love too much to mar--she's almost fine enough
            to be repentance for the old man's crime."
          The Colonel's black eyes were fixed on Philip as the eyes of one who speaks
            because he must--but speak only once. They turned to linger on the wine-glass and grew
            dreamy. "Look at this rim closely; do you see anything on it--anybody--any of
            you old acquintances?--look at the glass, Philip, not at me."
          "No, Colonel; nobody--nothing at all."
          "That's strange." His was the most perplexed expression.
          "It's only a few inches round and thin as a wafer--not a comfortable
            place to sit." He held the goblet to the light.
            "There they are and all changing color; now they're pink--now
            they're purple; must be a million altogether and all your friends--a million
            fairies pleading with me to tell you everything, but away down in my heart that terrible
            thing commands me to be silent."
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VI
          SEVEN months had gone since the Colonel's banquet;
            election-day brought victory and passed away; Philip had known the ills of office, as
            Congress had been called in special session soon after his term began. One day during
            the campaign, he had drawn up at the Pisgah toll-house, but the "single-handed
            conqueror of Vicksburg" stopped smoking only long enough to request to be
            excused. As for the identity and whereabouts of the Incomparable, a word from Colonel
            Hardy, enjoining patience, had reduced Philip to helplessness in the toils of
            conjecture. Now Congress was adjourned and Shanks had commanded his presence, fixing the
            hour with that precision only natural in one so intolerant
            of militay delay.
          He was stationed upon the porch as usual, the only change in the scene being the
            absence of the rusty cat--due to her encounter with a mink. In the shade of a
            morning-glory vine Button seasoned his philosophy with a flatness which was balm to the
            soul, responding to Philip's greeting by opening an eye the hundredth part of
            an inch and faintly rapping once.
          Shanks had become his representative's most faithful correspondent; he had
            attended legislation with an accuracy which proved him a faithful reader of the Congressional Record.
          The old man arose, smiling.
          He had spoken but a line when the young man wondered what had wrought the change. The
            nervous glance was gone; in its stead was the stirring of
            solicitud to touch Life's warm hand, such as rises from consciousness of loss,
            long and irreparable.
          Philip had sent him a picture of the House of Representatives, showing members in their
            seats, and, with an enthusiasm which lost itself in pathos, Shanks explained that by
            looking at this while reading the Record, it was easy to see the whole
            proceeding. He inquired respecting the personalities of leaders, discussed various
            measures, and grew indignant that any one should have proposed to abandon the White
            House for a more imposing establishment.
          "Ain't things a-changin' all too fast? Why can't
            they let it alone, a-standin' out anchored to ole days like? I reckon
            it's jist as I seen it onct, but--"
          He stopped abruptly and searched the corduroy coat for his pipe.
          
          "As I recolec', you ain't ejicated up to mullen yit. Tell me
            'bout that White House, Dan'l."
          His eyes brightened at the description of the interior, especially the Washington
            portrait which Dolly Madison cut out and saved from the flames.
          He dissented from a suggestion that he attend the next inauguration.
            "I'd give a heap to see the place ag'in, but then I
            wouldn't luk at it fer the whole world--jist a ole man's idy, you
            see.
          "'Pears like rain of yander." He pointed to ragged gray
            clouds drifting in from the south. "Corn's a-astin' fer it,
            too."
          He squared round in his chair. "Dan'l, they's jist one fear
            I've got. You started so airly an' wuz so lucky like--I'm
            sup'stitious enough to cahilate they's jist so many rocks fer every
              feller an' he may git 'em one at a
            time er all at onct."
          To speak of his "claim" was unthinkable, but Philip was speculating
            as to the effect of such reference when Shanks introduced the matter himself.
          "Guv'ment's wunerful; never asts fer money an'
            allus has it--an' so you wrote me 'at my claim wuz still
            a-pendin'. Dan'l, when you done that, you said to herself:
            'It's the staff Shanks walks with an'I won't take it
            away.'"
          There is no pearl like humor in an old man's eye.
          "Do you know what happened when that letter come? I laughed--it wuz turrible,
            too--like the cryin' out of a feller inside--you see, Dan'l,
            I'd forgot how."
          For an instant, the expression of the year before returned.
          
          "I wuz a ha'nted house; I dunno; I cahilate the change come
            'long with the books you sent--an the pit'chur--I got to
            thinkin' o' other things,--that's all they is to
            mind-medicine. Well, the night after I laughed I wuz afeerd to go to bed--afeerd
            I'd wake up wild ag'in--an' I set up late an it wuz cold--way
            under zero; winders all silver-like, an' white round the latch; things all
            a-crackin' an' the wind a-gallopin' through the trees with a
            million devils after it--an' sumpin' up an' sed sharp-like:
            'Look out, Shanks, yer laugh's a-goin' 'way--there,
            it's gone!'
          "Dan'l, wuz you ever hit in the eye an' afeerd to take yer
            hand off?--well, that ain't nuthin' at all. I gethered up my grit
            an' tuk a long breath, an' sez I: 'I'll make her
            loud er not at all, an' then I leapt up, fer the chimbley laughed
            back--an' the clock an' the punkin on
            the beams, an' I piled on more fire an' pulled my cheer up closter
            an' made Button git up an' talk to me--an' I went to sleep
            a-settin' there. Next mornin' I thanked the Lord--fer, Dan'l,
            they's jist two kinds o' people in the world--them that kin
            laugh--an' them that's crazy."
          Leaning far back, he proceeded to whistle different parts of nothing at all, and
            finally asked: "Heap o' folks a-comin' down to
            Washin'ton, I cahilate?"
          "Nobody but Colonel Hardy and--" Philip restrained himself too late;
            he had mentioned the forbidden name.
          "Yer lucky to have sich a frien', Dan'l; finest feller I
            ever met." There was no more agitation in his tone than an instant later when a
            bee in the morning-glory vine brought Button to his feet,
            to turn his head, wrinkle his nose, and snap at flies.
          Philip informed him that the records of the War Department told of a "Joseph
            Shanks." "Grant mentioned him for gallant conduct--he was
            killed."
          The old man's eye gleamed; it was as if some far-off storm of life flashed
            back its lightning.
          "You don't tell me!" he exclaimed after a moment.
            "Joseph Shanks." He slowly repeated the name. "Sounds
            familiar-like, might 'a' bin o' kin--Shankses wuz a big
            fambly."
          His manner brightened suddenly: "Luk at that feller." He pointed to a
            caterpillar pushing his fuzzy length across the floor. "Dan'l
            he's got to wear his furs in hot weather er not at all; I don't know
            whur he's bound fer, but I cahilate it 'll 'mount to
            'bout as much in a hunderd years as the
            President's trip to Californie."
          The pale face was now traced with the rarest of smiles, the gray smile which comes
            when, after long years, the lamp of mirth burns low on its altar. It is a strange lamp;
            the last drop of its oil may be as brilliant as the first, and when so, the death-bed
            has the cradle's smile.
          "Git out o' my way, Shanks; yer on'y a-settin' out
            hyere a-gassin' to Dan'l an' I'm busy; I'm
            on my way to be a buttery an' I ain't got no time to
            spare!"
          He moved his chair. "Come ahead, Mr. Napoleon Bonaparte; I wouldn't
            hurt you fer the whole blame plantation--go 'long, Button, can't you
            let a gentleman alone?"
          And he who moved aside for caterpillars had done a thing so terrible, its memory "lifted innocents from church-yard graves--a thing
            patented in hell!" Philip gazed at his strange constituent in amazement.
          Shanks leaned forward with a start: "I hope that ain't
            so!"
          "What?"
          "Thought I heerd a katydid!"
          "What of it?"
          "Lordy, Dan'l, a Congressman that don't know what a katydid
            stands fer--why, on'y six weeks till frost--listen--no'p,
            it's sumpin' else."
          It grew suddenly dark; large drops of rain tapped up puffs in the road; a gust blew
            over them; Button jumped, nosing his way inside, and they followed. The room had an
            atmosphere of order, with its muslin curtains, and broom in the corner. Beneath the
            clock-shelf stretched a cobweb, a drapery to order, by the king of artists now ascending a shaft of speckled light in his private elevator. The
            cord bed with high posts was piled with straw tick, and over it was a red-and-white
            quilt, while in the centre of the wall, darkened by a shutter blown against the window,
            stood the cave-like hood of the fireplace.
          Raising the latch, Shanks stepped to the shed, lowered a bucket, and returned with a
            gourd. "Dan'l, have a drink."
          With hands flat on the arms of the chair, the old man leaned back and closed his eyes;
            he might have been lifeless, but for the lump rising and falling in his throat.
          Thunder rolled; countless imps danced upon the shingles; water swept from the eaves in
            sheets; then it ceased suddenly as it had begun; sunlight flashed; the poorest twig dropped diamond after diamond till there was a
            coronet for every blade of grass; a spice coated out of the dead leaves and
            moss-covered, crumbling logs; the air was faint-hued; it was like sitting in a
            bubble.
          "It's a little dark," Shanks observed, pushing back the
            shutter and letting the lively light fall upon the fireplace.
          Philip's eyes turned to stars as he sprang to a picture by the chimney. It was
            of Shanks and a girl, just entering her teens; she was dressed in gingham, her hair
            parted plainly. At first, Philip thought its gold too bright--but that was only natural,
            it was the resemblance of the bud to the flower.
          He turned as the old man entered the room with a sack.
          "Fine picture--of you, Mr. Shanks."
          
          The latter poured water into the pot hanging from the crane, then lighted the fire.
          "Oh, tol'able, I cahilate; it's me an'
            'Mad'--Madeline--it wuz tuk the day she first cleared out; ast her
            what she'd have; she's got the other 'n. It's good
            o' her too, on'y it don't do her fair. An', Lordy,
            Dan'l, you'd ought to see her now!"
          Rubbing his spectacles, he drew near the likeness, and moistened his lips.
          "I druv her off, Dan'l; ye'p, I druv her off; it tuk the
            hide, but I done it; you kin see jist a little o' how she felt in that left
            eye, but I cahilate they wouldn't 'a' bin even that to tell
            on her if she hadn't a-tried to smile--she's got the nerve
            o'Andy Jackson--the women are the brave folks,
            Dan'l--wait, I'll fetch it to the light. That other'n
            t'other side o' chimbley's her mother; she wuz my girl, Mary. Let's see, its bin eighteen year
            o' Thanksgivin' since she pined away. Bill didn't come
            back--her man, you know--went West to stake a claim--never heerd tell uv--good feller,
            Bill King wuz--Injuns, I cahilate.
          "Notice little Mad's fore'd; I recollec' onct she
            shuk her fist at a stick o' wood 'at fell on her bare
            foot--an' how that straight nose o' hern did quiver---an' luk
            at that mouth, Dan'l, gentle as a 'Johnny-jump-up'
            an' yit they ain't no poutin' round 'em lips, no
            whinin', no beatin' round the bush. She wuz a-comin' three
            when we wus left to foot it alone; it wuz turrible in a way, an' ag'in
            it wuz grand an' holy-like--the 'sponsibility--why, Dan'l,
            when I'd press that little thing ag'in' my heart I'd
            feel like the sky.
          "She wuz allus a-tearin' round, busier'n a robin after a
            rain--an' climb trees--Lordy! Dan'l,
            that chile wuz part squirrel. She'd set up there in the blossoms
            a-lukin' like their older sister, till I'd climb up an' git
            her, an' then uv a summer's night, she'd set in that ole
            chimbley an' luk at the stars an play 'heaven' an'
            talk to the whole universe, an' make me crawl in when my ole rheumatiz would
            crack, I tell you. She come as a Christmas present, Dan'l, an' one day
            she up an' sez she wuz goin' to git married that day.
          "They wuzn't no bear story ever made 'at I haven't
            tole her a thousan' times, an' I cahilate I made a thousan'
            o' my own--an' do you think she'd leave me?--No, siree--not
            fer the whole creation!"
          He wiped the picture with a handkerchief, and gazed at it in silence.
          "Why, then--why did you drive her off?" For the moment,
            Shanks's eyes wandered down the shadow-tangled pathway of the years. Then he arose and slowly stirred meal into the bubbling pot.
          "It wuz like this, Dan'l. I tuk her to singin' school at
            Bethel onct, an' she set there, eyes an' ears a-starvin'
            like--think she'd go to sleep?--She didn't bat a eye--an' she
            wuzn't five. That night I wuz a-carryin' her up the hill yander, all
            done up in a shawl, wind a-blowin' hard, an' I thought she wuz
            a-dreamin', when her head popped out like a redbird's, an'
            sez she: 'Pap, throw me in a snow-drif' an' fin'
            me.'
          'Nop,' sez I; too cole.' 'Jist onct,' sez
            she, 'an' I'll tell you sumpin'.' I tossed
            her in an' sez she, a-clappin' her hands: 'I'm
            goin' to be a gran' singer when I git big'--an' she
            kep' her word, Dan'l--she allus has.
          "Well, she went to school, a-singin' all the time, an' she
            made me saw [ away on that ole 'fid'
            till I wuz most dizzy. Teacher cahilated she wuz fine; why, Dan'l, it wuz jist
            like she couldn't help it--hyere 'bout this ranch, the birds all
            'peared to wait fer her to tune up.
          "Well, one day a carriage druv out frum town--the woman o' that
            surveyin' feller 'at put the railroad through Happyville; it wuz hot,
            an' little Mad went out to take the toll; an' the woman talked to her
            an' ast fer a drink, an' the chile fetched that very gourd,
            an' as the woman wuz a-drinkin', little Mad flew out o' sight
            a-cryin': 'Wait a minute, lady,' an' when she come
            back she had a armful o' golden-rod. The woman ust to come an' fetch
            her things, an' fin'ly one day when Mad had come twelve, she wuz
            a-ironin' an' a-singin" 'Home, Sweet Home'
            'cause it wuz my fav'rite, an' I wuz a-smokin' out
            on the porch, when a rig druv up an' the woman
            ruz her hand fer me to keep still, an' when the song wuz over she come in
            an' patted Mad, but she jist smiled an' licked her finger an'
            spatted 'nuther iron on the bottom an' went on with business. Then the
            woman tuk me off an' sez the chile wuz wunerful, an' when
            she'd got done a-pleadin', I'd promised to let her take Mad
            to ejicate. I'd felt fer a long time she wuz too glorious-like to be locked up
            with a ole man in sich a place-an' I tole the woman to keep her till I
            sent--an' I never sent.
          "But what do you cahilate, Dan'l--it had bin six year, an'
            one day I wuz a-settin' out on the porch, half asleep, when I heerd wheels
            a-crossin' Pigeon Crick, an' then they wuz a cloud o' dust;
            it wuz a hack a-comin' like the wind--a hack, Dan'l, plumb out from
            town, an' 'fore it stopped, the door bust open an' Mad leapt out an' flew on me, spillin' fire
            an' mullen all over both uv us, an' she laughed an' cried,
            an' said: 'Pap, I've come to stay
            ferever!'--an' my God, Dan'l--she wuz--she wuz
            beautifuller'n all the stars!
          "She kep' a-jumpin' round like a chile, an' called
            Button an' tuk me 'long, an' looked down the well
            an' up the chimbley an' out in the orchard an eveywhur--an'
            she kep' a-hummin sumpin' a-gittin' supper, an' I
            jist stood roun' a-feelin' hot an' cole.
          "Then wuz the hardest work I ever had to do; I couldn't let her stay,
            an' I wouldn't go 'long; she tole me how we'd keep
            house in the great city. Sez she: Uv a Sunday afternoon I'll take you by the
            arm, a-smokin' yer corn-cob pipe, an' me an' you an'
            Button 'll go walkin' in the park--the idy, Dan'l-- I druv her off ag'in--an' that
            wuz--let's see."
          He turned and opened the door to the shed; it was half covered with chalk marks.
          "That wuz Aprile a year ago."
          Philip's mind flew back to a day when there had been a fire--a day when a
            glorious creature had stood in the Red Front book-store, and smiled in token of a
            kinship with all mornings from the first.
          Then his heart leaped at the sight of two other entries below:
          
          "Mad'lin--August 10,
            "Dan'l-August 11."
          
          The first was the date of his nomination; the second, his first visit to Pisgah.
          "She went back," Shanks resumed; "said she wuz
            a-goin' to start a school an' make her board an'
            keep--an' now hole yer breath--she paid the
            mortgage on this plantation, an' now it's ourn--all uv it--two acres
            an' a half!
          "I've a letter hyere; yer eyes is younger'n mine;
            I'll jist give you the last page--the rest's on'y
            foolishness--read it out loud, Dan'l."
          
          "This is a city of wonders, but give me Pisgah every time.
          "I'm glad Mr. Daniel sent you all those things and that you enjoy
            them. To think of the convention--your speech and the home-coming--it makes me homesick,
            so don't be surprised if you see me coming up the hill one of these fine
            days."
          
          As Philip returnd the letter, Shanks arose in a trembling transformation, the veins
            round his temples seeming to lie almost upon the skin.
          "Dan'l, I liked you a turrible lot, but sumpin' jist tole me
            you'd try to take her frum me--an'
            I'm goin' to keep her!' He shook a withered fist in
            Philip's face. "I seen you when you found that pit'chur by
            the chimbley, an' ag'in when you seen them names writ on that door, an
            to prove it, I give you the page a-speakin' o' yerself, an' I
            seen you take that card frum yer pocket an' compare the writin'.
          "I writ them names but I kin rub 'em out!"
          With a cold, cracking laugh, he sprang to the door and rubbed the chalk marks with his
            sleeve, then he slammed it, and creeping back, placed both hands upon Philip's
            shoulders as he had done that rainy night when he rode to Happyville with the
            "retirement."
          "Dan'l, luk me in the eye!" He blinked as before a sudden
            light, then shook his head. "No'p; I bin wrong; you don't luk like that boy I ust to know--you
            don't luk like none o' my blood at all--an don't come
            ag'in--never!"
          Philip stepped toward the door. "I owe you a great deal, Mr. Shanks,
            I'll do anything in the world--but 'never' is a long
            day."
          "Go--Dan'l: leave me alone."
          He dropped his shaking hands, and the old dog arose to lick his fingers.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VII
          IT was Decoration Day, and Happyville fluttered with flags;
            school-books were abandoned, and children gathered here and there, some playing marbles,
            others wandering toward the river with pole and line. The "Old
            Soldier" with lighter step and brighter badge came down the street and
            disappeared up a stairway where fife and drum were heard. Women stood in bushes,
            clipping roses and snowballs, and down the way loomed the secret society man in full
            regalia, leading his little girl, and causing other little girls to clasp the pickets,
            gaze in awe, and lament the absence of like parental plumage.
          Flowers were strewn about the Soldiers' Monument, and the last sounds of hammer and saw came from City Park, where new benches
            told of out-door exercises.
          "No hope of rain," Philip mused as he walked along; he looked again
            into the cloudless blue--the ardent sun--and thought of the fifteen miles to Saddletown.
            It was a long trip to make alone; he entered the American House for a companion.
          Colonel Hardy, arrayed in white flannel, was reading the paper.
          "I'd take you along if it would not soil you."
          "You forget, Philip--I'm 'Marshal of the
            Day.'" The Colonel smilingly waved a hand toward his red sash.
            "In your remarks this afternoon--don't 'reunite the
            sections.'"
          
          Two highways stretched away to Saddletown, one along the river under sycamores, while the other pointed straight out through the
            heat.
          There was no room for debate, and the old horse had chosen the trees when Philip turned
            him down the torrid prospect. The animal's displeasure was apparent in instant
            weariness which brought moral suasion from the driver, then the whip; but neither
            availed, since the animal's hearing was defective when he willed, while that
            portion of his body exposed to attack had long been immune. Mile after mile his vexation
            increased till, at the foot of a high hill, he stopped with the authority of a clock run
            down, and turned an accusing head toward the buggy, a protest which Philip was in no
            mood to heed as a summer dress flitted across a porch ahead of him.
          Leaning over the side, he lightly touched Comrade's flank: "Go
            on--it's only a little way to Fate."
          
          Then he crossed the balmy boundary of a song, and an old gentleman came forth, dragging
            a chair, a fiddle under his arm. In the a of sitting, he turned, shaded his eyes,and
            fled within.
          As the buggy drew opposite, the door banged with a violence which sent Button through
            the morning-glory vine. Philip tied the horse, looking for signs of life about the
            shack, now wrapped in all the stillness of a fort just before assault. With a smile, he
            stroked the horse's nose: "Comrade, behold me in the flesh-perhaps for
            the last time."
          He crossed the porch and Button crept near enough to pay a tribute of amazement to his
            daring. He knocked, but there was no answer, then raised the latch, when something
            chained him to the threshold.
          
          It was not the forbidding hand of Shanks nor his pale face; it was a miracle like
            December turned to June, and the presence of the one who had wrought it, sitting upon a
            trunk in the centre of the room. He had seen the place less than a month before; it had
            been gray and desolate; now a radiant mist laced it with glory. The air was strewing
            apple-blossoms in the path of summer; now it drifted in to billow the curtains and lift
            the hair which wove a splendor round a wondering face.
          Philip thought it glowed with something more than confusion--a protest. Was it directed
            at his entrance or the withered hand, still aimed in warning?
          "I beg your pardon, Mr. Shanks." He had bowed and half withdrawn when
            the hand lowered into a greeting, barely civil.
          
          He did not misconstrue the courtesy; it implied only the reluctance of one of a
            vanishing type of men to close his door against a fellow being.
          "I realize it all; I've forced you to yield your hand; I shall bother
            you no more."
          The Incomparable arose--slender, taller, lovelier, the roses inher white dress mounting
            to her cheeks. A glance of remonstrance which her grandfather did not see and she
            crossed the room, extending her hand to Philip. "Your success has made us
            happy--and we wish to thank you."
          He gazed as upon a dream come true, till she withdrew her hand.
          "Demosthenes should not have come this way, Miss King," he began with
            hesitation. "He did not know that you were here--though the morning seemed a
            little brighter. Your grand- father has told him how he
            loves you--not with words--for he belongs to that class which speaks most by what it
            does not say. He recalled the tenderest sacrifice--recalled it as lightly as some recall
            their obligations--he hurried over it as essential in the telling of a tale.
          "This house has been very kind to this Demosthenes; your grandfather saved his
            political life once upon a time, and this Demosthenes now wishes him health, long
            life--and your companionship."
          Shanks placed a hand upon Philip's shoulder, knitted his brows, and left the
            room.
          "And Miss King did him a great favor--she did not know his name; he was
            drifting in an idle current; she lifted him out of it; she turned his face toward the
            East; she made him a man--such as he is--she gave him ambi- tion--she had it to spare--and then she gave him something more-there are some who
            think it more than all else on earth--and it would have lasted had he never known
            her.
          "When he saw her a little while ago, he thought to ask her to go to
            Saddletown. If she would be so kind, he said to himself, she would not have to
            listen--but, no--the day is hot, the road is dusty, and the place is small--a pump, a
            shop, and a handful of folks--it is enough for Demosthenes to know that this Miss King
            really lives outside the land of dreams--and he must go."
          "Wait!" commanded Shanks from the shed. Then he flung the old door
            open and pointing to fresh chalk marks, cried: "See, Dan'l--I rubbed
            it out--but I've put it back!"
          Madeline turned, her bewilderment complete.
          
          "My chile, Dan'l put me on a mountain-top, but my place is at the
            bottom--I wuz foolish like a yong feller bout his girl--an' now I want you to
            do me a favor--git on yer things an go long to Saddletown!"
          
          They had gone slowly for a time when Philip explained that haste was dusty. The
            Incomparable's sceptical glance was followed by her grasping the
            conversation.
          "I'm homesick for the city aleady; I wish 'Pap'
            would go back with me."
          Turning to survey the devastation wrought by this remark, something in
            Philip's face caused her to look away.
          "You like that life?"
          "Ah, yes; it is happiness; it's the market where the world brings its
            best--it's the universe!"
          
          The decisive tap she gave the buggy stay was more than speech, and Philip surveyed her
            hand, marvelling that anything so delicate could deal a blow so deadly.
          "The dirt is flying all over you!" He tucked the lap-robe round her.
            "And hadn't I better put up the rain-curtain?"
          "No--no!" She returned the robe with a kindliness which reminded him
            of the morning-glory vine. "It doesn't hurt anyhow!" She
            pointed to the linen coat which shielded her from throat to toe. The sailor was tilted
            forward to protect her eyes, and a wondrous girlishness lingered in its blue band. Still
            he thought its shade defective as he glanced into her eyes.
          The desire to bestow some homage proved irresistible, and as he tied a flaming bandanna
            round her neck, a strand brushed his cheek; he was as a
            weary pilgrim anointed by spray from a consecrated fountain--and Comrade wanderd into a
            fence corner to nip the tallest grass.
          "What is the hour of the meeting?" She lifted her head with smiling
            concern. "You had better let me drive."
          He yielded the lines with infinite security--she did not know the magic spot on
            Comrade's flank.
          He was drifting toward the fairest of shores when his bark encountered as cruel a reef
            as ever wrecked a tender meditation.
          "Of course you like Happyille and will always stay; you have been very
            fortunate; you can have a great career--become a leader--reach your
            goal--that's worth while."
          How worthless it all seemed; the shouts of partisans
            returned to taunt him, and out of the homecoming issued a mighty rocket
            stick--dead--burnt out.
          When the hope of the first lover died and he was led to the petrifed forest of Fame and
            offered a glorious monument--that hapless day, Irony was born.
          "Please don't speak of my success. It's nothing, though I
            never knew it till now. Political victory proves no quality--it is only something which
            happens; there is sparse merit in political ambition. It is more a fever than anything
            else. Command the average man to paint an 'Ascension,' render
            'Faust,' write another 'Lear,' or wake the perfect
            'Venus' which sleeps in every rock--he will tap his forehead and pass
            you by; but let the village jester observe in him a con- stable--President--anything--he flings his homespun off, and between dawn and dusk
            looks like Cromwell, walks iike Richelieu, and retires a fatalist to dream of listening
            senates."
          As she contemplated his despair he was tempted to tell of Old Settlers' Day,
            the challenge of the twins--his victory over such overwhelming odds--his vision of the
            phantom train, but a strange helplessness sealed his lips. She touched his arm in
            protest. "Please don't speak like that--you said I was partly
            responsible."
          "You have your life all mapped out?"
          "Yes; I want to make my own money, then go abroad and finish. Oh,
            look!"she cried with rapture. "Black-eyed susans--a world of
            them--I'm going to get some."
          He instantly leaped from the buggy.
          
          "I didn't see that barb-wire," she called
            apologetically.
          "It's nothing at all."
          "That's enough!" she insisted as he continued gathering an
            armful.
          The return was less dexterous; he became fastened everywhere.
          "That man coming will surely kill his horse!" She pointed down the
            road. Clasping the black-eyed susans, the crimson statesman in the fence glanced upward
            as the horseman flourished upon the scene. "You're late,
            Daniel--quartet's sung all it knows--local speakers all talked out--people
            getting tired--I'll go back and hold them!" And he whirled away.
          Philip regained his freedom at the price of a hole in his coat, but thanked Heaven for
            it when the Incomparable said: "I'll mend it--I used to know
            how." Then she added a line which made a rent
            more difficult to mend: "Then you'll have something to remembr me
            by."
          With reproach heaped upon dejection he urged Comrade to surprising speed.
          The people waited and were rewarded. At first, Philip was "in the
            brush," as one old gentleman whispered, but in a little while he calmed, and as
            if the start had been only for the sake of contrast, gradually ascended in excellence
            till he stood upon the plane of the inspirational orator. Opponents who once spoke of
            his "flowery nothings" now praised his depth of understanding, and old
            admirers were borne beyond discretion's bounds. That speech placed his feet in
            the road to higher things, and to this day old men sit round the tavern fire at
            Saddletown and compare it with triumphs of the early times.
          
          On the return Comrade was turned this way and that to avoid young drivers, eager to
            display their horses in action. Philip knew he had succeeded, as evey speaker has know,
            be the comment good or bad. He now had the orator's credentials; he could think
            upon his feet; he would never memorize again.
          For several seconds his thought actually left the fair one beside him. They talked but
            little; they were nearing an enchanted land where intuitions bud and speech is not.
          Near the tollhouse she held up a bursted glove: "That's for applause,
            Demoshenes!" Had he analyzed her face he would have seen that she did not
            consider the loss irreparable, but instead of devoting himself to frivolities of
            thought, he met the crisis as a statesman should, slowly stripped the glove from her hand and placed it in his pocket.
          Then he added with tremendous seriousness: "About mending the coat--I may not
            be able to be here by nine o'clock in the morning--it may be a whole minute
            after."
          He placed her at the door, then walked over to the dog.
          "Button, shake hands with your Congressman."
          Shanks smiled. "He's my pupil, you know," boasted the
            Incomparable, smoothing the crumpled ears.
          The old man followed Philip to the buggy. "She don't care fer what I
            say, Dan'l--she won't clear out no more--she's come to
            stay--as long as I do."
          Philip restrained that speed which Comrade always developed when homeward bound; all
            the flying orchard petals fell in the road before him, but when at last Happyville soared into view, it disturbed him. He had found the
            Incomparable--he had forgotten to leave this matter in the Colonel's charge.
            But the fear which tormented most was lest his benefactor should resent the rising
            intimacy with Shanks. He would go straight to the American House.
          "You had a great meeting!" exclaimed the marshal of the day;
            "I read success all about you--but tell me--was she pleased? and has my ancient
            station--master of the heart of Daniel--been abolished?"
          "Who in the world told you?"
          "The A, B, C's of human nature--I knew how it would end when you took
            the Pisgah aoad instead of the other."
          "Why, Colonel, you were in this very room."
          
          "I didn't have to see you; one of the things taught at West Point was
            to figure what the other fellow would do--and then I knew you could be
            trusted--especially after Shanks warned you to stay away. The great beauty about it
            is--you didn't lose any time--she reached Pisgah less than half an hour before
            you."
          The Colonel's manner was the more exasperating because it was so
            matter-of-fact.
          "When did you see her?"
          "Never in my life, Philip, except that day in the runaway."
          "Colonel, you are a king of clay--and prince of the occut! Won't you
            go to Pisgah some time?"
          "No; that's a dead line!"
          Hardy smoked in silence for a time, then said: "I've been a little
            slow--a Cupid shouldn't have the rheumatism --but
            you may realize some day that few things happen too early or too late. I'll
            help you in politics as long as I live, but in this other field, I'm now at my
            wits' end; I've got you together; I leave it to you, and as I told
            you, when you wanted money to buy stock in a circus, it's a fine business--good
            luck!"
          Philip arose to leave, but turned in the doorway.
          "There's something else--I mentioned your name to Mr. Shanks the
            other day, and he said you were the finest man he ever met."
          The warrior cast a regretful glance across the street, then faced Philip with great
            decision: "About that post-office vacancy at Molly--I believe I'd
            choose Milo Sloppy; he named his boy after you, and if you appoint somebody else,
            he'll change that name to George Washington--God
            only knows what such a blow might do!"
        
        
        
          CHAPTER VII
          SOON after the Incomparable's return Shanks showed symptoms
            of decline. "If a feller's in bed--he's sick!" Thus
            he disposed of the doctor's orders, and every day found him on the porch,
            rocking with a hand on Madeline's chair, or spinning reminiscences for Philip
            or Michael Halfpap.
          In the shade of the morning-glory vine, he could look up and down the road and straight
            ahead, dream over a scene which rose and fell in great billows, with here and there a
            glimpse of Pigeon Creek, the top of the covered bridge to the right and the old
            "Deer Inn" off to the left--half a century or more.
          
          He gazed over the felds when they were green, and again when they had turned to
            checker-boards of green and gold, with sunlight and shadow sweeping over them like great
            birds. He saw the feminine grace of wheat, casting of its snowy cloak to run and play
            with summer wind, till, more said, it put on countless russet bonnets which tossed in
            the breeze like golden laughter.
          Before him was the sturdy pupose of the corn, from the time it peeped like
            rabbits' ears, then stood erect, and as the weeks flew past, drew from its
            magic, slender stalk, blades of emerald, husks of silver and of lace, rustling up though
            rain and warmth, drawn by summer sky, whispering strange commands, till finally it flung
            into the air the tasselled plumes of that grand army which from its autumn knapsack
            feeds the world.
          
          Through it all the old gentleman saw such constancy, he asked no more than to be a
            little part of nature's dignity--to blow away like a season--without pain or
            regret.
          She talks big, Dan'l, but ain't foolin' me with this
            speckilatin'--my ticket's bought--carpet-sack's
            packed--I'm waitin' fer a train goin' in the right
            direction--but I'm foolin' her, I 'pear to take it all in
            an' ast fer more--wy, I've argified a hour, I cahilate as to how
            we'd put a wide porch hyere--next summer!" He emphasized another year
            as if it were a century.
          There was a sensation when she decreed that he put on linen; he objected because the
            suits had no vests. He feigned indignation when she scattered mats over the floor,
            declaring them "fit neither fer man to walk over or dog to sleep on!"
            Then the crusade reached his bed. Philip took him for a
            walk while the canopy was being placed over the high-poster, and the old man beheld it
            with delight and patted the Incomparable's head.
          One could not have been deceived in the place, of course, yet, like a short man walking
            with a taller, it threw back its shoulders to keep pace with the gentlemen in linen.
          The room to the south was Madeline's. It used to be filled with rusty
            implements and old harness; there was a corn-bin in the corner; weather-boarding was
            missing, and the floor had commenced to fall away from the rest of the establishment,
            but it was coaxed back. Philip and Michael painted the walls and foor after doing
            Shanks's apartment in white to match the curtains and canopy. An old
            blue-and-white coverlet was draped across one end of
            Madeline's establishment, and behind this was the
            "clothes-room"; and her wicker trunks, piled where the siding
            threatened to depart without ceremony, became a bureau, and lent a sea-island
            splendor.
          And the old shed--a stove was installed in one end, a dining-table in the other, and a
            windlass over the well, half-way between. The ends and rear were skeletonized and
            screened, and vines trained up to ribbon the light, while the diner looked forth upon
            hollyhocks and sun-flowers.
          The hanging gardens of Babylon may have been something like it.
          The whole thing should have been taken to an exposition to show what a mere girl--that
            is, one of a certain kind--can accomplish, for to make Dilapidation smile is greater art
            than to paint a leaf which will deceive the wind.
          
          Birds merely nest in heroes' statues; their songs are for those who practise
            sublimity where nothing is sublime; who find abounding glory in adorning other lives,
            and who, if there be no flowers, surprise common grass into better beauty still.
          The sunlight loved that old shack; the Incomparable had made a home--in dialect.
          Button confessed dissent the day she broomed him from repose beneath Shanks's
            canopy, but soon yielded and followed her up and down and everywhere.
          "That bread 's one o' her solos, Dan'l!"
            the old fellow declared, bowing to the other end of the table, the first day Philip
            dined with them. "And how do you like your position, my lady?"
          "Wouldn't trade it for anything, Pap. You wouldn't believe
            it, Mr. Daniel, but the city is terribly behind Pisgah; it
            actually treats dogs as Europe once treated great artists--makes them wait for the
            second table." She leaned toward Shanks so irresistibly that he turned to his
            "private secretary": "Button, you rascal; clear out;
            don't you know they's comp'ny?"
          "Does the 'Cannon Ball' often whistle fer a stop,
            Demosthenes?" He chuckled in a manner utterly unpardonable at the table.
          "Oh, have some of this--or this--I believe something's
            burning!" The Incomparable flew to the kitchen, whence, after great slamming of
            stove doors, she returned, shaking her head at the offender.
          "Do you really beieve they will revise the tariff, Mr. Daniel?"
          Her anxiety would have done credit to a captain of industry.
          
          "Stop whur you air!" Shanks commanded with knife and fork upright
            upon the table.
          "Why, Pap!"
          "It's ag'in' the constitution--titles o'
            nobility--'Mr. Dan'l' an' 'Miss
            King'--the idy--an' in a place o' on'y two rooms
            an' a half--an' nuthin' on the foor but hay--either quit it
            er call me 'King,' an' Button
            'Perfesser!'"
          Philip insisted on supplying a thousand things, and made a determined stand for his
            right to furnish a cook--a suggestion which Madeline promptly vetoed. She was little
            short of divine that morning, with a patch of flour upon her oven-flushed face,
            indignant that any one should have questioned her right to do eveything for her
            grandfather.
          The effect was not lost upon Michael, who bowed his lowest to observe: "If the ancient house of Halfpap could have its way, the papers
            would soon be filled with a function, which for lilies of the valley would surpass
            anything ever known in Happyville!
          For the first time the gray and brown eye reached an understanding.
          "That being the case," replied the Incomparable, "you may
            pick enough dandelions for a bouquet--and get fresh water for them--and, Philip, if
            you've filled the wood box, go over to Price's for the
            milk."
          Shanks paused in lighting his pipe: "Everybody's got to do
            sumpin' round this ranch--me an' Button 'll do the mind
            work."
          She was arranging Michael's offering upon the porch table when Philip
            returned. "They never get a kind word, but go right on forever turning the
            other cheek and blooming as a sky- lark sings."
            She stood off to survey the effect, then added a few deft touches and sprinkled their
            golden faces.
          She never left the place, even to go to Happyille, except the day they took Shanks to
            the circus.
          A quiet glory ran through the summer, but the greatest day was when Philip took the old
            man to see Pigeon Creek in high water. He drove slowly going home, till there was signal
            which the latter did not see. His outbreak came a hundred yards from the house:
            "Stop--good Lord--a pi--an--er!"
          A little more and he touchd the lines: "Hol' up a spell,
            Dan'l!" He listened till the last words died away. "Same
            weather; same song; sounds the same as the day the woman tuk her off."
          After dinner when Shanks was asleep in his chair Philip led the Incomparable to the
            orchard.
          
          He helped her up the stile and stood in admiration, as she swung the wide straw hat by
            its long red ribbons, just a quiver in her cheek, her eyebrows lifted, till she extended
            a hand. "Won't you please come along?"
          She made a sweeping gesture:
          "I take possession of this magestic region--two acres and a half--in the name
            of my august sovereign--Milton Shanks!"
          She plucked a beech leaf. "Permit me, sir, to confer his badge of
            office--let's see--what's your designation?"
          "Gentleman-in-waiting!"
          Seated under the trees, they talked of everything but the theme which, let us hope, was
            in the minds of both. The thread of Philip's discourse, so bravely begun on
            Decoration Day, lay tangled in his brain. Again and again he re solved to
            speak--carefully shaped the words, but only sat in
            silence, or uttered some boneless commonplace.
          The Old Settlers' picnic--that was ages ago--the phantom train--it was more
            distant still--and once when a traction engine whistled for the threshers, he thought of
            the "Canon Ball" and started with alarm.
          There was little occasion to lament the distance betwen them as she gazed over the
            tree-tops into the blue wonderland of a perfect summer day, gentle as a universal soul,
            as through it glided snowy ships whose voyages were to end in rain-drops. The bees were
            in the elder bloom; butterflies staggered past like blossoms running off; the drowsy air
            was full of fragrant things that never were; over the meadow, cattle, wedged in the
            shade, swung their tails in sleepy unison and fair Pisgahland nodded in responsive stu-
              por--till loose bark fell at the orchard's edge
            and a climbing fox-squirrel drew his bushy plume round and round a buckeye tree, pausing
            not till, at his high front door, he cast one glance below and plunged within to bid his
            family banquet on a nut, and doubtless heed romantic version of his escape from two
            dreamers far beneath.
          She looked into his hat and read the inscription aloud:
          "The Globe of Happyville and New York!"
          Her voice seemed filled with roses, which he promptly persuaded himself had been
            pressed in a book called "yesterday," then he thought of a sheaf of
            red ones in the county atlas at home.
          "I wonder what it would be like if I had never gone away?" She tied
            the long red ribbons into bows. "Over
            life's bridge two multitudes pass--one of country boys and girls--with eyes on
            steeples--the other of old people--city-bowed--city-wrinkled--with eyes on fodder
            shocks. We must leave everything to see it as it is--and everybody. We don't
            reach art through nature, but nature through art--by a longing for the lost--But
            you're not listening to my fine philosophy, Philip; you're looking
            'way over yonder at that threshing-machine. I've often wished I had
            lived when white flour was a stranger--I know all about it, you see," she added
            with a smile as Philip made bold to tender a surprised glance.
          She leaned forward to clasp Button's head.
          "Pap and nature are old neighbors--he told me of the trees and vines and
            berries, the signs of long winter and early spring, the phases of the moon, the calls of birds, the ways of beasts; whenever we found a track in
            the snow he'd tell me what made it, where it was going, and what for. He told
            me of the herbs that cured the fever; the words that worked charms; the
            Indian's curious lore--how the youth rode horseback to the forest dance in
            their homespun, proud as a mountain. And those calls!--on long winter nights, with now
            and then the screech of an owl; he would fiddle and cry them out as I hopped over the
            floor, and pretend it was a grand ball.
          "Pioneer days--seed corn in the rafters, pumpkins in the loft; shot-gun in the
            corner; almanac hanging by the clock; weather talking in the chimney, pedlers coming
            round with wonders in their packs, and news from the far-off world. Education was
            sparse, but character great; manners were simple, but so
            were hearts; culture was young, but hospitality old; they were strong and impulsive and
            brave--they were people worth while; the frontier father and mother were making the
            wilderness polite when kings and queens were making throne-rooms base. Ah, Button, these
            are poor times!"
          Her face grew perplexed. "And the zodiac--that was a mystery--Pap would say
            'We'll plant this in the Fish, and that in the
            Twins.'"
          Philip sat upright: "Did he put any dependence on those
            Twins?"
          "Oh, theyre infallible for things which grow above ground; but let's
            talk of something else--of poliitics," she addd, noting his blank
            expression.
          "I suppose the greatest part of your success was the home-coming; do you know
            when you spoke from the court- house steps I could have
            touched you?--and I missed the train. I stayed at the hotel--whatever made landlord
            Lowden name his rooms after States?"
          "Why, it's the American House."
          "Well, I spent the night in 'Texas'; it was hardly large
            enough to turn in. He is a fine humorist--'Rhode Island' is the
            largest of all."
          Philip buckled on his armor. "In the inside pocket of my coat you will find a
            souvenir of that occasion which is not for sale."
          The glance she gave on drawing forth the card, "For Demosthenes's
            mother," would be unforgetable in the life of a race.
          "That was foolish; I was irresponsible that night--like everybody else. I was
            standing in your yard and started to present those roses and congratulate her like the
            rest--but I gave them to a little girl. Tell me,"
            she smiled across the sun-streaked orchard turf, "are you still in the fire
            department?"
          "Who knows, Madeline--but for you I might be a chief! The town could have
            burned that day for all I cared--and I almost missed bidding you good-by!"
          "That would have been very terrible--Mr. Philip Daniel!" She shook
            her head solemnly.
          "I walked ten miles that night, then tossed an eternity; I dreamed of the Dead
            Sea giving up its wasted days; it was dotted with black ships which sailed straight
            toward me, then glided suddenly off. Their rigging was filled with the white faces of
            disappointments; broken spars floated everywhere and now and then a bony hand clutched
            them from beneath the water--and when I awoke, I resolved to find you if it took till Doomsday, and it did--almost."
          "Please, Philip--let's just go on being improved
            gypsies."
          "Don't you think there would be more money in sheep if they were
            clipped every month?" she digressed as her lonely investment nibbled nearer.
            "Wool on the back seems such idle capital."
          She began with a tone of thrift, but turned away.
          "I feared this--you were so different awhile ago when I gave you that leaf--I
            wouldn't hurt you for anything--but I suppose this had to come."
          She leaned against the tree and gazed into the boughs.
          "Oh, to drift and drift and never touch a shore--as time does--and the
            world--that must be what Paradise is. Philip, I'm unhappy--don't you
            think he's failing--very fast?"
          
          "Yes--every day."
          They silently contemplated a great change--one against which both had closed their eyes
            till now. From the fall of every house, whether castle by the Rhine or lean-to by the
            pike, issues that sentiment, without which autumn would be only color-wild. There is
            aloofness in lonely columns of old temples; they stand in the climate of the stars,
            clasping Fable's pale flowers; answering speculation with awe--disdainful of
            what is--Desolation's fine aristocrats. But chimneys in roadside weeds bid one
            heed Oblivion's folk-lore--hope and fear, faded moons, mirth's dead
            laughter, pleasure's spectre, loves that are dust, mortals'
            vapor-ending question--"Whither?"--all drifting in the amber of old
            afternoons.
          "And you will remain, Philip--till it is all over?"
          
          "I will remain always--if you will let me."
          She turnd to the western sky; the old Painter had taken his station in the Venice
            Hills, wrought a sea of pearl, piled its shores with purple cities, and blown across its
            bosom the swelling sails of innumerable golden craft.
          "And to think, Phiip--that grand old fellow has been doing it forever--in
            jungles--in lands of ice--where none could see--and he, with soul enough to worship such
            a master, has been called 'pagan'--and by human specks who ask
            applause."
          "May I speak of anything I wish?"
          "Anything."
          "You were twelve when you went away--did you ever notice anything about your
            grandfather--anything strange?"
          
          "It makes it seem alive to have you mention it."
          "He told you the Vicksburg story?"
          "Many times."
          "What caused him to believe it?"
          "I only know that long before I was born something happened which has followed
            him ever since. One day, as far back as I can remember, he took me to Happyville, and as
            we turned into the public square, there was a soldier's funeral, and he turned
            and drove away as hard as he could, and didn't go back for a year.
          "That night I was awakened by a cry; it was the name
            'Joseph'; I listened and heard it again, and looking across the room
            in the moonlight I saw him sitting up in bed with arms outstretched. I spoke and he
            awoke and said: 'My boy came to visit me--but he couldn't
            stay--don't be fright- ened--your grandpa was
            only dreaming.'
          "He half promised to tell me once; it was a summer night when I was little. I
            had crawled into the fireplace to look up at the stars. I squinted my eye and there was
            a gleam of light, extending clear to heaven, and I asked: 'Who put the stars
            into the flag?' He dropped his paper and said: 'What do you know about
            any flag, child?' I crept out and took a faded litte one out of the Bible; it
            was of silk--no larger than a handkerchief; it was wrapped round an old letter. He
            rubbed his spectacles and seemed surprised and said: 'Why, it is a flag, but
            it's like you--it isn't big enough to count'; then he caught
            me up and held me tightly and rocked the longest time and said: 'You want to
            know who put the stars in the flag--the best men that ever
            lived--and the best women, too--they put them there, and kept them there--now lay it
            away, and some day it will be yours.'
          "As I grew older, strange questions came to me from somewhere, and there
            seemed to be something about him--at times almost at his side."
          She glanced toward the sunset and her tone was of infinite sadness: "How it
            has all changed!"
          The western glory had withered into endless volcanic wastes, with sightless objects
            frozen to the jagged limbs of trees long dead and with ashes sifting down.
          She arose slowly.
          "That thing by his side was gray--as it is off yonder.
          "When the day comes, Philip, for us to leave this dear place, I must go and
            sit down with Nature, all alone; she will me tell
            everything--everything you and I should know--she will tell it, whether good or bad--for
            she will be my only kin."
          "And I?"
          "Be a leader; I shall always watch you; it was a revelation the day you spoke
            to the people of Saddletown--you were some one else--you were eveybody--and when I could
            think at all, I said: He can accomplish anything!'"
          Her face was flooded with a light such as he had never seen.
          "Madeline, I didn't speak to the people of Saddletown that day--I
            spoke to one who had never lived in Saddletown at all--no one else was there--I should
            have seen them."
          As she turned toward him, a little monarch whose reign is as old as time marched into
            her cheek and flung his crimson mantle open; her eyes
            widened, her lips parted; the earth few faster, and there were wonders never told by
            shepherds; deserts tossed with all the roses that ever bloomed and died; the Dead Sea
            awoke; the waves laughed and tossed golden spray into each other's faces, then
            they ran, hurrying to shore to sing to the everlasting sands--all in one immortal,
            tender instant!
          The faint notes of a supper-bell came up the hollow.
          "Listen, Philip; we must go."
          "Feller left a present fer you, Mad," Shanks began, as they
            appeared.
          "Who was he?"
          "Don't know; he lukt suspicious-like; it's at yer
            plate."
          In a moment she came out with a little silk flag.
          
          She framed the old man's face in her hands:
          "I've always felt that away down in your heart there was--something
            glorious--and that some day you would tell me--hold still till I pin this rose on your
            coat."
          "Why, chile--how you talk. Come hyere, Button, they's a burr in yer
            ear."
        
        
        
          CHAPTER IX
          MIDNIGHT the following month, Philip flew up the steps to Colonel
            Hardy's room. "Shanks has had a stroke and wants to see you; something
            is on his mind; the doctor says he may go like that!" Philip snapped his
            fingers.
          "My young friend, I'd go in spite of vow and everything if it would
            do any good." Hardy twisted his watch-chain and walked up and down. Then he
            stepped quickly to the closet, drew forth an old military cloak, pulled a slouch hat
            over his eyes, and motioning to Philip, passed out of the door.
          As they drove through the fog Philip had never known his companion so silent; he had but a monosyllable even at mention of his favorite
            foes.
          At last a pale light fell down the hill, and as Philip tied the horse, Hardy stood
            waiting to be led.
          Philip looked through the window and touched the Colonel's arm.
          The candle on the clock shelf was like a lily in the gloom, its rays trembling off into
            the gray. Shanks was in his chair, propped with pillows, a white blanket round his
            shoulders; his face rested in the hand which was free, and as he glanced into the fire
            they seemed to be fading away together.
          He turned to smile as Madeline entered from the shed, and when the long wisp of hair
            fell from behind his ear, she brushed it back.
          As one who goes to sea beholds the rudeness of the shore melt into the image of his
            regret, so this tired spirit saw the medley of old nights
            and days merge into the sweet face, the lustrous eyes, the fine calmness of the
            Incomparable as her hand crossed his forehead again and again.
          He had heard the horse; he knew it brought one who had been his inseparable companion
            till young manhood; he was about to lift the sheet from of some mystery, and then,
            perhaps that friendship would come back from the other end of his life.
          But there was no token of specula tion; Shanks's expression was more than one
            of peace after weariness; it was that crumbling, elemental something which, from the
            beginning of the world, has come into the faces of doubters and believers as their names
            have been called from out the shadows.
          Had his Pilot issued from the fire, the feeble hermit would have risen with the greeting: "Which way, friend?--come along,
            Button."
          The Colonel pointed to the dog lying with his head upon his master's feet.
            "Look, he knows it all."
          
          "Thank you fer coming," Shanks began as they entered.
            "Dan'l, take the cheer by the table. I want to tell you
            sumpin'--an' hurry."
          His impatience was such as reckons with a storm.
          "Write it as I say it--an', Madeline, put some mullen in my
            pipe--ain't had none all day."
          His lips parted and closed in dry smacks; his face relaxed.
          "It's a long tale--an a long time--over forty year; I lived on the
            border like an' had a friend by the name o' Hardy--we ust to call him
            'Elephant'--an' I had a boy, too--but I'm ahead o' my story. This Hardy wuz in the reg'ler
            army, but he left it 'cause they wuz no fightin' an' come
            back to run the mill. When war come he fetched the word to my house. It wuz
            later'n this, I cahilate, the night he tapped at my winder, an'
            a-leanin' frum his saddle, says: 'Milt, let's raise a
            regiment.'
          " Elephant, er Hardy, that is,' sez I: 'good-by,
            I'm ag'in' the war that's
            comin'--I'm fer the South--damn the North an' them
            that's fer it!'
          "He leant fur down frum his roan mare, an' sez he: I don't
            like to hyear you say that--even in fun--I--a-havin' knowed Lincoln as you ust
            to--an' it ain't no time when Sumter's fell!'
          "'It ain't no badgerin', Elephant,' sez
            I--'but sure enough--I'm as solemn as Abraham a-leadin' Isaac
            to the sacrifice--Lincoln--why, he's on'y a instrument in the
            devil's hand!'
          
          "At that Hardy drawed back an' galloped off--an' we
            ain't done no talkin' since."
          He paused a moment.
          "Hardy tuk a vow to support his country--I tuk one to destroy it--he fought
            fer the flag an I cursed it."
          For the first time the old men looked each other in the face; into the
            Colonel's eyes drifted war-clouds from the far sky of half a century, while
            Shanks smiled and was white.
          "It wu a great day in ole Millville when Hardy's Comp'ny
            marched off. They had dinner at the 'Brethren' Church, an' my
            woman an' the rest give a flag they'd made, an' they wuz
            speakin' an' carr'in's on. Hardy tuk that flag--I
            kin hyear him now: 'When we bring this back,' sez he,'they
            won't be no spot on it 'less they's rd
            ones'--an' they wuzn't. Long 'bout sundown the fife an' drum struck up an' they
            formed--chil'run wundrin', women wringing' hands,
            an' ole vets o' the War o' '12 a-totterin'
            'long the line a-wishin' they could go, a-sheddin' hickory
            tears, an' a-shoutin' out: 'God bless you, boys o'
            Millville--an' give 'em hell!'
          "When my boy Joey wriggled out o' his mother's arms, she
            leant ag'in' the fence an' they fanned her--Joey wuz a
            lieutenant, you know--an', my God--he lukt like a soldier!
          "I didn't dare face him; I'd left home 'fore it wuz
            sun-up, an' crawled into the thicket, an' laid there all day,
            an' seen everything, an' when they give the word:
            'For'erd march!' I edged clear up by the road, an'
            as they tromped up to the covered bridge over Injun Crick, I could most
            'a' teched 'em. I watched the line till it wuz out
            o' sight--an' then I got up an' leant ag'in' the fence an' watched the dust
            till it wuz all gone--an' little boys acrost the road begun a-singin'
            out: 'We'll hang Milt Shanks on a sour apple tree.'
          "My woman never said a word when I come home; it wuz like my ghost wuz there.
            Well, us 'Knights o' the Golden Circle' met--an'
            they wuz lots uv us; we sent help to the 'Johnnies,' an'
            pizened cattle, an' burnt the places o' women left alone. We plotted
            insurrection--an' I went to Richmon', Virginny, twict.
          "Time went on an' Vicksburg come, an' one night a feller
            galloped out to Millville jist at dusk an' hitched to the ole sycamore by the
            milk-house. 'When'd you hyear frum Joe?' sez he.
          "'Last week,' sez. I.
          "'How wuz he?' sez he, a-foolin' round,
            a-tightenin' up his girth.
          "'All right,' sez I.
          "'Joe's dead!' sez he.
          
          "My woman jist ketched her breath, tuk her Bible, shet her jaws, set by the
            winder an' sed nuthin'; neighbors come but she didn't notice
            'em 'cept to say: 'Take the little
            girl'--Madeline's mother, you know--'off to stay all night
            an' leave me 'lone.'
          "I kin see that woman yit a-lukin' out over the clearing'
            an' beyant like--to'ard the South. After dark, I got up to go.
          "'Not to-night!' sez she. 'Don't stay fer
            me--but as you prize yer soul's salvation, the ghost o' yer boy
            'll smite you--an' you ain't fit to die!'
          "'I got to!' sez I. I leant over to tech her, but she drawed
            away, tremblin' an' a-sayin': 'Fer God's
            sake, Milton Shanks, yer unclean!'
          "That night we stole fifty horses; I wuz gone till after midnight,
            an' when I come home I luked frum fur down the
            field an' the winder wuz a-shinin' but not frum the moon as much as
            the face that wuz in it, an' I shuk like the ager an' the ole sycamore
            I'd passed a thousand times turned to things turrible 'fore my eyes.
            Fin'ly I went in, an' the woman kep' a-lukin' out,
            an' I sez sumpin', but she didn't make no stir, an'
            it wuz the strangest stillness I ever heerd. I started over to'ard her when a
            voice come out o' nothin' at all--an' it sez:
            'Don't--she's mine!'
          "It wuz so plain I called out, but they wuz no answer, an' I lit a
            bunch o' husks that wuz fer kindlin' an' I held them up. Her
            head wuz a-restin' like--back ag'in' the tidy--an'
            she luked glad--an' I crawled over on my knees. She'd gone to jine
            Joey.
          "Then they wuz a whistle--an' three more--an' I went down
            whur fellers with masks wuz an' I tole 'em the road to take to kill the Guv'ner on his way to the
            speakin' next day.
          "They fetched Joey home, an' the two was buried same time--I went to
            the church a-wearin' a 'Copper Head' badge on my coat; it wuz
            filed out uv a ole-fashioned cent. But instead o' trouble they wuz all
            strange-like an' kind 'cept when I went up to luk at Joey, a soldier
            feller led me off.
          "'I wuz with him when he fell,' sez he. 'Jist
            'fore he died he gasped out: "God bless my mother an'
            sister--but if you take me back, don't let him see me--if
            he'd on'y a-fought on the other side--yes, I'd
            'a' bin proud if he'd 'a' bin one uv
            'em 'at shot me."'
          "How did he fall?' sez I. The soldier feller straightened up
            proud-like, an' sez he: 'Major Joseph Shanks, my commander, sir, fell
            gran'--horse shot--leapt up like a tiger--hat a-wavin' on his sword--led the charge afoot--planted the flag the ladies
            give--planted it on the parapet with his own hand--an' a whole squad shot him
            in his tracks--but they wuz soldiers, sir--they sez: "Come an' git
            him, boys"--an' they tuk off their hats an' cheered as we
            carried him down the field. Grant seen it through his glass, an' sez he:
            "He's a Colonel if he gits back!'"
          "I wanted to take that black box with the flag on it--take it in my arms
            an' run straight on ferever--an' a-goin' out, I tried to edge
            round to luk jist onct, but the soldier feller wuz a-watchin' an' he
            stepped in a-sayin': 'I'm sorry, but a promise to a
            cum'erd that's dead--that's diff'rent
            like.'
          "A drink, please, Mad'lin.
          "Have some, Hardy?"
          The Colonel looked clear through him without seeing and made no reply.
          
          He swallowed audibly, and slowly licked his lips.
          "Now then--when that soldier feller said that, all the light an' all
            the stars busted in my eyes--I fell down on the floor o' the church,
            an' then I had the fever an' it hung on a long spell, an'
            'fore the Millville boys come back, I tuk my little girl an' cleared
            out--an' come hyere."
          Throughout the recital Colonel Hardy's impatience had been manifest, but he
            had weighed humanity's duty to a passing life, and then he was unwilling to add
            a straw to the burden of Madeline as she sat crushed by the story of treason. The room
            was closed; the air saturated with mullein; the Colonel had backed against the wall; he
            could stand no more.
          "Wait a minute--hyear me through--you won't be sorry, mebbe--I got to
            tell it in my own way."
          
          The Colonel made a low bow to the Incomparable which she did not see. His hand was upon
            the latch.
          "Then luk at this an' you may find time to stay a spell,"
            cried Shanks, handing him a time-yellowd letter.
          Hardy read, then backed against the cane upon the bed, and spoke in the lowest tone he
            was ever known to use:
          "My God--who's crazy--you or I!"
          Philip drew the paper from his hand, then he and Madeline read it together: 
              
                
                  
                    "EXECUTIVE 
                      MANSION,
                      WASHINGTON,,
                    APRIL 11th, 1865.
                  
                  MR. MILTON SHANKS, Millville, --------
                  DEAR MILT: Lee's surrender ends
                    it all. I cannot think of you without a sense of guilt,--but it had to be.
                  I alone know what you did--and even more--what you endured. I can not reward you; man cannot reward anything worth
                    while--there is only One who can.
                  I send you a flag handkerchief; it is not new but you will prize it the more
                    for that.
                  I hope to shake your hand sometime.
                  
                    Your friend,
                    A. LINCOLN
                  
                
              
            
          
          Shanks alone was able to speak, and he was calm.
          "Elephant"--he used the name with assurance--"do you
            recollec' the time you druv me to the train in the March o'
            '61?"
          "Very well; you went to look at cattle."
          "That's what I tole you." His eyes brightened. "I
            wuz called to Washin'ton by Lincoln, an' at night, after the last
            feller left he tuk me up to the lib'ary an' sez he:
            'It's a-goin' to take all kinds o' men to save the
            Union.' Then he walked over to'erd a
            winder an' without turnin' round, sez he: 'Milt, how much do
            you love yer country?'
          "'I cahilate I'd die fer it!' sez I.
          "He shambled down in a cheer an' wrapped his legs round each other
            like a wild grape-vine, an' after a spell, sez he: 'Recollec'
            when you wuz a boy an' I helped yer father clear that eighty by the
            crick--well, one mornin' when it wuz cold an' blowin'
            snow--mud axle-deep--an' church four mile off--yer mother called yer little
            sister Frances, an' sez she: "It's Lent; it ain't
            'nough to love the Lord; you'd ought to give up
            sumpin'."
          "Well, Frances lukt out at the team a-shiverin' an' sez she:
            "Guess I'll give up the church."'
          At this, Lincoln got up an' stood a-flappin' the tails uv a long gown
            ag'in' the fire-place an'
            laughed an' laughed, then purty soon a cloud come over his face, an'
            he begun awful slow like:
          "'The South's a-sayin' she'll git yer
            State an' bust us in two. O' course she can't, but them woods
            o' yourn is full o' bad men, an' they'll git
            worse--Milt, it ain't 'nough fer you to jist die--thousan's
            o' boys is a-cryin' to do that--you must give up sumpin'
            more'n life.'
          "'Try me,' sez I.
          "Lincoln run his hands through his hair an' went on:
          " It means to be odious in the eyes o' men an' women--it
            means to eat yer own heart, fer you can't tell wife ner chile--you must play it
            out if it takes the hide--I want you to jine them cowardly devils--be the worst uv
            'em--be their leader--I need you, Milt, yer country needs you.'
          
          "It hadn't bin a minute since he wuz a-laughin', but when he
            lifted his hands it seemed we wuz the on'y folks in the world, an' yit
            he wouldn't 'a' woke a baby a-sleepin' in that
            room.
          "'I'll do it,' sez I.
          "Then he tuk a little flag out o' his pocket an' put it on
            the table, an' sez he: 'Come hyere, Milt, I'll muster you
            into the service as my friend'--an' he put my hand on that flag--whur
            the blue wuz--an' all the stars--an' then he put his hand on mine
            an' said nuthin'.
          "They wuz never a meetin' o' them devils I didn't
            'tend, an' the times I went to Richmon', Virginny--that wuz
            to talk 'bout openin' the Union prisons--an' I reported it
            all to Lincoln--at night.
          "It wuz turrible when I couldn't tell the boy when he marched off;
            an' when that soldier feller wouldn't
            let me see his face, sez I to myself: 'They're all dead; I'll
            jist keep still--it's mine--all the hate an' all the
            cussin',' an' it got to be so when some feller 'ud
            stone a dog I'd be jealous o' that dog--an I kep'
            a-thinkin' o' Joey at Vicksburg, an' I kep'
            a-dreamin' o' Joey at Vicksburg, till I come to think I'd tuk
            it all by myself.
          "I'd 'a' kep' that vow an' held a
            tight lip an' let the lamp blow out, but when this hitch come in my side, I got
            to thinkin' o' Mad'line--how fine she wuz--an' what
            she'd be some day--a gran' singer--an' how folks down at
            Millville 'ud be a-claimin' uv her through her kin, an'
            sumpin' said sharp like: 'Mebbe some feller 'II up
            an' say: "Yep, she's got traitor
            blood"'--an' that--that wuz the on'y thing I
            couldn't stand!"
          
          The Incomparable sank upon her knees, her arms round his neck. In a little while she
            lifted her face: "And you you are my grandfather!--I would rather be yours than
            have in my veins the blood of a hundred kings--and all of them Alfreds!"
          Shanks smiled upon her for an instant. "Mad'line, fill my pipe.
          "Now, I'll sign my name.
          "On'y one thing more--Dan'l, keep that an' read it
            at my buryin'--that's the place--an' read it without no
            frills."
          The Colonel was leaning forward like great mastiff, with shaggy head upon his hands,
            folded above the cane. It seemed a long time he sat that way and a mist came from the
            war-clouds which had drifted out of the far sky of half a century.
          "Milt," he said as best he could, "the soldiers were just common stuff--the wine of war is wild--it's
            from a frozen grape; it sets men crazy and they want to die. I've seen boys
            that should have been upon their mothers' knees pet a cannon like it was a
            baby, and when an arm was hanging mangled I've seen them go up and shout into
            the ear of death: 'Take me, damn you--if you can!' That's
            fine, but it isn't the best that's in folks. I've asked
            myself many times who did the most. I've had the skeletons all stand up--among
            them was the skeleton of a prisoner who had died day by day--toes fell off; reason ran
            away; no glory in it--nothing but oblivion. The other side said to him: 'Come
            and be free!' But he said back: 'To hell with you and your
            flag!--I'll starve I'll chatter first!' I said to that
            skeleton: 'You're the best!'--but, Milt, I've been wrong--will you take the hand of a man who only
            fought?"
          The larger placed his arm round the smaller in the chair, and there was no sound but
            the wind in the trees and the candle sputtering in the socket.
          "Milt, damn it!--I beg a thousand pardons, Miss--haven't you got some
            applejack, plain alcohol, or something?" The Colonel stretched and straightened
            till he seemed to touch the roof.
          "No'p, Elephant; ain't got no luxuries, 'less
            it's mullen."
          "Can you spare a little?"
          "Yep, I cahilate; there on the chimbley."
          The Colonel lighted a pipe as black as the pot hanging on the crane, and his face wats
            glorious--it was the most gallant act of his life.
          "Try it, Philip!" he exclaimed with enthusiasm. "There's nothing like it!"
          He turned to the Incomparable, "I have been delighted to know of your
            success." Then he paused abruptly, and in confusion glanced toward Shanks,
            whose eye kindled as he spoke:
          "Elephant, I've an idy--one 'at never come till now--you put
            the railroad through Hippyville, didn't you--that wuz what fetched you
            hyere--an' you brung along that surveyin' feller, whose woman tuk
            little Mad of to ejicate?"
          "What of it?" Hardy's smile broadened.
          "You can't fool me--you done all this fer her yerself--but you done
            it under a 'sumed name!"
          "Milt, the only thing I know is that--several hundred years ago, as it seems--there was a better boy than I who wanted to go to
            West Point, but he stood aside for me."
          Shanks waved his hand toward the picture of himself and the Incomparable.
            "Fetch it hyere, Dan'l--an' git my spec's,
            Mad'line--quick."
          He put them on, but only to remove them, saying: "They's
            sumpin' on 'em--I can't see--I--"
          His pipe fell to the floor and something like lightning shivered his body. He smiled
            and spoke with diffculty: "Come nearer, Mad'line, my dear chile, I
            want to make a will--I'm rich, fer I've got you!--I'm the
            riches' man in all the worl'--I give you to Dan'l--
            ferever!"
          He gazed into the fire and its ashes came into his lips as he added:
            "No'p; I didn't want to be hard on Grant-- but Vicksburg had to fall--an' so I went myself.
          "Up--up!" he whispered.
          As they raised him, a tide flowed into the room--a grand, white tide from a far-off
            sea; his head lifted in majesty:
          "Lincoln says: 'Come, Milt; I'll muster you into the service
            as my friend!'"
          When they laid him down, his face was like sunlight upon the snow.
          Hardy was the first to speak: "He ought to have a badge of some
            kind!"
          "He has one," calmly replied the Incomparable, turning to the Bible
            upon the clock shelf; "I've been saving it for him."
          She placed the little flag upon his breast and laid his hand where the blue was--and
            all the stars.
        
        
        
          CHAPTER X
          TEY were going back to Millville; the Incomparable had decided that
            the story must be read in the air which had borne evil report against him.
          "Colonel, do people always look so small--afterward?" Philip asked
            that morning.
          "No--not all--once in a while a gentleman dies--and his soul is so large that
            you miss it."
          They reached Millville in the evening, and little by little, fragments of village
            memory stirred from their long sleep. The usual crowd was assembled after dark when two
            strangers entered the blacksmith shop. The Colonel silently surveyed the scene--the cobwebbed windows, the cinder floor, gritting underfoot, the
            rafters hung with horseshoes, the tin-reflectored, smoky-chimneyed lamp against the
            wall; the creaking, whistling bellows, like the snout of some sea monster, breathing
            violet fames into the queer dusk about the forge; the gray-bearded, leather-aproned,
            sooty-wrinkled, open-shirted smith with pipe turned upside down.
          "Howdy, gentlemen." He watched the glowing wagon tire and listened as
            another of his years, perched high beneath the lamp, read the weekly paper.
          Conversation ceased round the door; the idlers straggled in to whisper and watch the
            strangers; now the smith added a glance to the speculation and heaped more cinders upon
            the tire.
          
          "Better stand back a little!"
          There is no discord in the anvil's scale; it is the only song that meteors
            leap from.
          The work was done.
          "What's the damage?" asked the farmer.
          "Quarter."
          The smith stripped perspiration from his brow, dropped the coin into a bag and tied the
            strings, then wiped his hands upon the leather apron, filled his pipe, and gazed
            inquiringly.
          "You play a good tune," observed Hardy.
          "I practise a heap, sir."
          The crowd smiled.
          "But there's music in you." The Colonel placed his finger
            upon the blacksmith's cheek. "That scar tells me you were once a
            bugler." The smith stepped back, squinted his
            eyes, then extended both his hands.
          "I want to ask a favor," said the Colonel; the two stepped to the
            door.
          
          The church was crowded next day, but only a few had known our friend, and they were
            amazed that Colonel Hardy should have returned with the body of his foe.
          A young minister prayed, read a chapter, and announced that services would be concluded
            in the yard.
          There the soldiers had eaten their last dinner; in the doorway the battle-flag had been
            given; yonder was the covered bridge, warped, its floor sunken between the piers, half
            its siding gone; there was the roadside--the thicket through which he had crawled to
            watch the fading volunteers and then the dust.
          Near the fence was a monument, small yet distinguishable from the rest--a broken column
            with soldier cap and sword, and the inscription:
          
          Madeline Shanks--1825-1863. Major Joseph Shanks--1845-1863.
            Armies are inspired by gallant deaths no less than victories.
          
          Out of the sky, overcast with gray, sifted the first light fall of snow.
          "It's the place, Dan'l; read it without no
            frills."
          It seemed to Philip as if the words came out of the trees. As he turned the pages, old
            men with soldier buttons in their coats moved nervously nearer, leaning forward on their
            canes, and at the end a sigh like the penitence of pitiless Chance swept over the astonished villagers.
          The Incomparable appeared to stand apart from all the others and when at last she
            raised her eyes, it was with pride unutterable. She might have been the last of a Roman
            line, rather than the last of a simple woodsman's blood.
          The young minister lifted his hands.
          "And one of the elders answered, saying unto me: 'What are these
            which are arrayed in white robes and whence came they?' And I said unto him:
            'Sir, thou knowest'; and he said unto me: 'These are they
            which came out of great tribulation and have washed their robes and made them white in
            the blood of the Lamb.''
          The blacksmith drew a battered bugle from his coat. For a little while the call of
            "Taps" Iingered round, then it floated
            off down the valley--and Milton Shanks was mustered out as a soldier.
          
          The Millville region was robed in snow. Windows of farm-houses were hung with
            evergreens, and lamp-lights fell pink upon the glistening earth. The sky was clear; the
            air was keen and strung with bells. Among the sleighs which flew along the pike with
            song and laughter, one was silent. It stopped before the village church.
          Santa Claus had come to that church the night before and found it clad in boughs with
            candes in them, and children for miles around had shouted greetings.
          The door now opened, and the twinkling candles in the boughs gave welcome.
          
          As they stood in the trembling light, she was like the calmness of evening, plumed with
            a golden cloud.
          Long years before, in a cabin, a little grl who had come as a Christmas present, l sped
            a confidence to her grandfather--that she would be married this night.
          The moon rolled out of a dappled cloud and it was bright as day. Two figures knelt by a
            mound in the church-yard. It was wrapped in a mantle of silver. Upon it a reverent hand
            now placed a wreath of holly.
          A tall, straight man whose hair was white bowed to say: "I'd like to
            put a monument here--one that's white--one that's high."
          For a moment she lifted her eyes as one who heard but indistinctly. "Colonel, you are a dear old soul, but only one monument
            will do--the Glory of his Country." 
        
      
    
     
  
