
   ----CITATION---- 
        Harding, Lewis A. (Lewis Albert), 1880-1944. The Call of the Hour: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3897
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        THE CALL OF THE HOUR
      
      
      
        "OTHER FOUNDATION CAN NO MAN LAY THAN THAT IS LAID"
      
      
      
        
          THE CALL OF THE HOUR
        
        
          By
          
          LEWIS ALBERT HARDING
        
        WITH TWELVE ILLUSTRATIONS BY EVA M. TRUESDELL
        
          WICHITA, KANSAS
          THE SUNFLOWER PUBLISHING COMPANY
          122 NORTH MAIN STREET
          1913
        
      
      
      
        COPYRIGHT THE SUNFLOWER PUBLISHING COMPANY
            WICHITA, KANSAS 1913
        PUBLISHED MAY, 1913
        ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL, LONDON, ENGLAND
        THE HOLLENBECK PRESS, INDIANAPOLIS, U.S.A.
      
      
      
        DEDICATION
        
        To all witty men and splendid boys and merry girls and brilliant women and to every noble
          character, this little story, wrought for love and faith and told in carol and tale, is
          dedicated.
      
      
      
        CONTENTS
        
        CONTENTS
        
          LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS13
            
          
          PREFACE
            19
            
          
          I PROEM
            29
            
          
          II THE GREAT FOUNDATION
            31
            
          
          III THE BEAUTIFUL
              FACE
            47
            
          
          IV THE PLOWBOY'S EVENING SONG
            55
            
          
          V THE IMPERIAL BOOK
            65
            
          
          
          VI NOT GUILTY
            73
            
          
          VII THE CHOICEST
              FLOWER
            87
            
          
          VIII MORNING-GLORIES
            99
            
          IX SWEETLY O WIND
              OF MY HOMELAND
            107
            
          X THE CALLING OF
              KNYPHAUSEN
            115
            
          
          XI THE GREAT BIRTHDAY
            161
            
          
          XII CONCLUSIONS173
            
          
        
      
      
      
        LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
        
        LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
        
          I WONDER WHO IT IS THAT REALLY KNOWS JUST WHO OLD SANTA REALLY IS
            
          
          PLANTED DEEPLY IN THE SOLID EARTH THE GREAT FOUNDATION STANDS FIRM AND
              STRONG
            33
            
          
          AT LENGTH HE SPOKE OF HIS AUNT AGAIN AND SAID SHE GAVE HIM SOM
              MONEY
            49
            
          
          
          THERE IS NO REST TILL THE MAIDEN'S DINNER CALL
            57
            
          
          "AMONG THE BOOKS I HAVE,"
              SAID A HAPPY MAN ON HIS BIRTHDAY, "THERE IS
              ONE WHICH I TREASURE ESPECIALLY" 67
            
          
          ANON YIP SE IS TRAIPSING DOWN
              THE STREET AT A 'RISKY GAIT' AND CASTS HIS CROSS-CUT GLANCE
              ASKANCE
            75
            
          
          ABOUT THE DELL THE WILD BIRDS  SING AND
              NEAR THE GOLDEN COWSLIPS SPRING
            89
            
          
          WITH GLORY SWEET AND TENDER, THE BLUSHING SUNRISE TREADS THE DEW
            101
            
          
          PAUSE NOW AND WHISPER A MESSAGE BROUGHT FROM THE OLD SCENES AT
              HOME
            109
            
          
          AND A SMILE, BROAD, LONG AND MELLOW, WOULD SPREAD OVER MR. KNYPHAUSEN'S FACE
            117
            
          
          
          AND LO, THE WISE MEN SAW DESCENDED IN EASTERN SKIES, AN ASTRAL
              LIGHT
            163
            
          
          I KEPT A WISE SILENCE AND A PATIENT SMILE AS HE RELATED THE
              MYSTERY
            175
            
          
        
      
      
      
        PREFACE
        
        PREFACE
        The aim of this book is to afford some pleasure in reading the volume as well as to
          convey the meaning and message suggested in its title. The volume contains just a dozen
          articles including five sketches in prose and poems to the symbolic number of seven.
        Five of the series of articles embraced in this work appeared originally in various
          magazines. Of the poems, "The Great
          Birthday" was printed first in pamphlet form, and in December, 1905, was again
          published in a magazine edition of THE DAILY STUDENT of Indiana University, under the title, "The First
          Christmas."
        A second pamphlet edition of this poem in gift form was published in 1910 by The
          McCormick Press, of Wichita, Kansas. The poem was spoken of kindly by James Whitcomb Riley
          to whom the second edition of "The First
          Christmas" was dedicated.
        In November, 1909, "The Choicest Flower" was published in THE TEACHERS JOURNAL, of (Marion,)
          Indiana. "The Great Foundation" was first printed the same year in the
          December number of THE MESSENGER, of (Wichita,)
          Kansas. The "Proem" appeared in the KANSAS MAGAZINE for December, 1909, under the title, "I Wonder Who
          Knows;" and the sketch, "Not
          Guilty," appeared in the same magazine, in March, 1910.
        I am indebted to the kindness of the proprietors of those various publications for
          permission to reprint those selections. The rest of the articles included in this volume
          have never before been offered to print and are more or less new.
        
          LEWIS ALBERT HARDING.
          
            
          COLUMBUS, INDIANA,
          
          
            April 14, 1913.
          
        
      
      
      
        THE CALL OF THE HOUR
      
    
    
      
      
        The Call of the Hour
        
          I
          PROEM
          
          
            I wonder who it is that knows just who old Santa really is.
          
          
          I
          PROEM
          A CHILD'S SOLILOQUY
          I wonder who it is that knows just who old Santa really is; and after Christmas where
            he goes with those reindeer of his. If I could see an Esquimau who lives up North where
            it is cold, I surely think that he would know, for Santa lives up there, I'm
            told.
          He doesn't make a bit of stir, but always comes when I'm in bed; my
              mamma says he's dressed in fur, and papa says
            his nose is red.
          I thought I heard him at our door, or coming down our kitchen flue; and mamma saw him
            at the store,--I wonder who he is, don't you? If I'd sit up I might
            find out but papa talks so much of him, and mamma's seen him, too, no doubt,
            and so I think I'll just ask them!
        
        
        
          II
          THE GREAT FOUNDATION
          
          
            Planted deeply in the solid earth the great foundation still stands firm and
              strong.
          
          
          II>
          THE GREAT FOUNDATION
          WRITTEN ON THE BURNING OF A TABERNACLE
          
            Hark!
            The alarm!
            It is fire!
            Fire! Fire! Fire!
          
          
            Look!
            People run!
            Hear the bells!
            Fire! Fire! Fire! Fire!
            
            Oh!
            See the smoke!
            Can it be! But alas!
            The Tabernacle!--The Tabernacle is on fire!
          
          
            Ah! then men hurry quickly to and fro,
            And desperate firemen dash in maddened flight
            And pallid faces like the sullen snow,
            In terror gaze on that unwonted sight;
            
            While every heart is strained with fear, for soon
            Those clouds of black then whitening smoke, shall doom
            It all to direful flames and ashy ruin!
          
          
            Behold on yesterday what splendid pile,
            When sunrise lit the windows of its dome
            With all the fresh, fine beams of morning; while
            
            At evening, all the twilight of the gloam
            Seemed caught and held up there in those rich panes
            To linger as the shadows mounted higher
            And then in silence when the west-land wanes,
            At last to mount toward heaven from the spire!
          
          
            But now behold what awful pity! Ah--
            
            Those sacred windows and the splendid wall,
            That lofty arch and all the fine éclat,
            Are scorching with the smoky heat; and all
            That splendid dome, with heaven-pointing spire,
            Is wrapt in smoke; and falling windows fly
            To pieces; while above, red tongues of fire
            
            Leap wildly upward toward the darkened sky!
          
          
            The scene is awful now! Those sheets of flame
            Envelope roof and dome and spire, while clouds
            Of smoke ascend--Oh! what could drown or tame
            Those deadly flames that rage beneath the shrouds
            Of bursting smoke! Behold that splendid tower,
            
            Like some great martyr's sacred head is lent
            Amid the withering flames; and all the power
            Of that strong crest, now lost in dire destruction!
          
          
            A few hours do their work. And after all
            That fearful spectacle of fire and smoke,
            The only grandeur is the blackened wall;
            
            The faithful clock has stopped upon the stroke
            Of time for service. All the power and worth
            Of art seems but an ashy heap ere long;
            But planted deeply in the solid earth
            The great foundation still stands firm and strong.
          
          
            O faithful man, renew that house of light
            
            Whose walls are built upon the solid rock;
            Uprear its columns to their ancient height;
            Secure its altar from the tempest's shock;
            Its beams and rafters anchor sure and strong,
            Restore its grandeur to the olden state,
            And let the cadence of its sacred song
            
            Ascend high up to heaven's holy gate!
          
          
            Methinks I see that temple all renewed,
            And throngs have entered through the open door,
            And all its sacred windows seem imbued
            With holy light, that brightens more and more!
            And then I see a wanderer come apart,
            
            And leave the world with all its gloom and night,
            Some holy book against his faithful heart,
            His face turned upward toward the Higher Light!
          
        
        
        
          III
          THE BEAUTIFUL FACE
          
          
            At length he spoke of his aunt again and said she gave him some money.
          
          
          III
          THE BEAUTIFUL FACE
          One rainayday in the drives I overtook a little boy and stopped to let him ride. He had
            a beautiful face, but was pale and thin and wore ragged clothes over his frail little
            frame. He said he liked to ride, for his papa had no buggy and 'old
            Charlie' had died.
          When I found out his name he told me about his brothers and sisters and said they were
            seven in all. He said he had to be at home the most of the
            time to care for his little sister while the older brothers were working. The little
            boy's mother was dead; and it was sad to hear as the poor little fellow told,
            with an air of pain, the story of his father in prison.
          "Aunt Mary, she says mamma is an angel in heaven," he said,
            "and can look down on us, and knows all we do. And yesterday the preacher was
            to our house, and he asked God to save the drunkard; and I
            believe that was for papa."
          I looked straight ahead and spoke to my horse. But the little fellow raised his hand to
            his face and when he dropped it to his lap, I could see the tears in his eyes. At length
            he spoke of his aunt again and said she gave him some money.
          "How much?" I asked; and he said as he held it there in his little
            hand, "Only a penny."
          We stopped then, at the corner of the street; and my heart
            was full as the poor boy said good-by, and left me, with his sorrows and only a penny,
            but as he turned and smiled, his face the more beautiful and bright.
        
        
        
          IV
          THE PLOWBOY'S EVENING SONG
          
          
            There is no rest till the maiden's dinner call.
          
          
          IV
          THE PLOWBOY'S EVENING SONG
          
            Morning's tender, fairy rays
            Softly through my curtains peep;
            On my lids a sunbeam plays,
            Startling off the nymphs of sleep.
          
          
            Day has taken midnight's keep,
            Thought and deed are calling me,
            
            And through heaven's boundless deep,
            Larks are caroling in glee.
          
          
            Hear now labor's rattling strains,
            Rustic cadence God has blessed,
            O'er the woodland vale and plains,
            While the shades are falling west.
          
          
            Toil and toil! there is no rest
            Till the maiden's dinner call;
            Noon-day dazzles on my crest,
            At my feet the shadows fall.
          
          
          
            Did I consecrate my day
            That my share is praising God
            For along the furrowed way
            As it cleaves the lowly sod?
          
          
            Yes!--Then noontide from above,
            Looking down to smile on me,
            Tells me of a wondrous love,
            Wide as all eternity.
          
          
            Flying cars and rolling wheels
            From the busy city's street,
            Echo till the vesper peals
            Chime the golden day's retreat.
          
          
          
            Evening's slanting shadows now,
            Softly from the sunset fall;
            Plodding on I guide my plow,
            Waiting for the welcome call.
          
          
            Day is done; the die is cast.
            I have turned the stubborn sward
            Meekly in my patient task:
            Labor brings its own reward.
          
          
            Duty's burden, wearisome
            To the flesh and brain,
            Lightens when the day is done,
            Like the sunset on the plain.
          
          
          
            Labor's turmoil dies away
            And my patient heart is strong,
            For the dream of a new day
            Fills me with this evening song.
          
          
            Fold me on thy bosom, rest,
            When my happy labors cease;
            Fold me, on thy gentle, loving breast,
            O thou paradise of peace!
          
        
        
        
          V
          THE IMPERIAL BOOK
          
          
            "Among the books I have," said a happy man on his birthday,
              "there is one which I treasure especially."
          
          
          V
          THE IMPERIAL BOOK
          "Among the books I have," said a happy man on his birthday,
            "there is one which I treasure especially--'the imperial
            book'.
          "It is not an attractive volume, only a small common edition bound in plain
            black, with no lettering nor any design whatever on the covers. The leaves are
            finger-worn and yellowed with age. On the different pages favorite pas- sages are marked which I have often heard my mother quote. On one of
            the fly-leaves are the names and birthdays of each of us children, written in
            mother's careful German script. Tenderly pressed between the leaves is a pretty
            curl of golden hair, a memento of my little angel sister. And around the little volume
            is tied a string of calico, a bit of one of my long-forgotten baby dresses.
          "I have this volume up on the book-case, near a
            picture of my mother. I shall not use it much, but I shall keep it and treasure it in
            memory of her."
        
        
        
          VI
          NOT GUILTY
          
          
            Anon Yip Se is traipsing down the street at a 'risky gait' and
              casts his cross-cut glance askance.
          
          
          VI
          NOT GUILTY
          A TRUE FISH STORY OF A REAL FISH TAIL
          "Shape fish! Shape fish! Shape fish!"
          It was a river or lake town, it doesn't matter much which. Near a busy
            crossing, Old Enrico, an Italian vender, imposed his cart and burden. In manner and
            person he betokened his nativity 'in some foreign port.' Italian sun
              had tanned him dusky brown, and on his hands were shining
            scales, and even on his face.
          "Shape fish!" he cries aloud.
          A workman, child or woman stops to ask the price. They 'split the
            hair' and pay the cash and wend away to have their fry. Yip Se, Chinaman, in
            white vesture stands aloof by old Enrico's counter. The motley knot is waiting
            there to get their breakfast fry. Enrico is busy and Yip Se knows it.
          
          "Fishee, me wantee fishee, goodee fishee!"
          Anon Yip Se is traipsing down the street at a 'risky gait' and casts
            his cross-cut glance askance. Suddenly the Italian's two orbs look daggers.
          "By the holy stars of Italy!" exclaimed the vender, "yonder
            goes a Chinaman, pig tail, and a fish!"
          The fish market is tight there in a minute. A top trout has disappeared. That fish was
            in Enrico's cart two minutes before. And it was a
            fine one; half as long as yonder unwashed urchin and quite as broad as that Irish
            lass's shoulders. Some one had that scaly prize and held it secreted no doubt
            close to his anxious heart.
          
          This incident of the street was observed by a dentist from the second floor
            opposite.
          In the next evening's edition of THE DAILY REGISTER appeared, among other
            items of court news, the following:
          FROM LACK OF EVIDENCE Judge Pat Pelican Acquits Chinama UNDER
            CHARGE OF STEALING A FISH Humorous Incident
          "This afternoon Judge Pelican's court heard the preliminaries in the
            case of Merrill w. Joslin vs. M. P. & W. R'y. The case of Enrico Sino
            vs. Yip Se, defendant, charged with petit larceny, was then
            called. This case, for one reason, at least, may be noted as the remarkable one of the
            docket for this term.
          "From the circumstances it seemed that one Yip Se, Chinaman, in a dark way had
            made theft of a fish from the street stand of one Enrico Sino, Italian. Estal Bigby,
            counsel for the defendant, argued that although the fish was on the cart before Yip Se
            passed the vender, and not there immediately after, yet no
            one saw him take the fish, and urged that the evidence offered against Yip Se, was, for
            that reason only sheer--thin--circumstantial. The wily young attorney was just
            concluding his plea; and as he closed the case to the court, he struck a last lick for
            the Chinaman.
          "'Every iota of evidence,' he said, brought by the plaintiff
            against this yellow son of the Ori- ent is weakly
            circumstantial, and as far as shown, either witness in that motley knot about the
            cunning Italian trader, might, at this very minute in this very court room have that
            very fish concealed under his very coat tail. My contention is that the defendant is not
            guilty. The case is yours.'
          "Yip Se waited with some anxiety for the result. Judge Pelican briefly stated
            the case and pronounced the decision, not guilty.'
          
          "In an instant there was a roar, a perfect broadside of laughter, which nearly
            set the symbolic balances atremble in their dignity above the bar. The son of Confucius,
            with a sharp air of absolute justification, exhibited his usual comic smile of the
            draw-string type, and as he attempted to make a quaint ado, lo, and behold a fish-tail
            there protruded from beneath his vest.
          "But the decision cast the die, and it was with a
            real twinkle in his Irish eye, that Judge Pelican concluded the proceedings with:
            'Not guilty owing to lack of evidence. But, sir, I would advise you the next
            time you steal a fish to be a little bit more careful to keep the thing's tail
            out of sight, at least while you are in the court room.' "
        
        
        
          VII
          THE CHOICEST FLOWER
          
          
            About the dell the wild birds sing and near the golden cowslips spring.
          
          
          VII
          THE CHOICEST FLOWER
          
            It is spring,
            The glad fields are green.
          
          
            Down where a rivulet murmurs along,
            Close to the bank a sweet floweret is growing,
            And from the fields full of glory and song,
            Round it fond creatures are coming and going.
          
          
          
            While from the meadow sweet zephyrs are flowing,
            Wafting the odor of clover and wheat,
            Down by the brooklet the floweret is blowing,
            Hidden away in a quiet retreat.
          
          
            O fountain meek of dewy sweet,
            Sequestered in a lone retreat
            Where red-breast
            Builds her nest
            In the verdant leaves above,
            
            Thy chalice is a soothing cup
            From which some tiny creatures sup,
            Humming thee their busy love!
          
          
            About the dell the wild birds sing,
            And near the golden cowslips spring;
            The hale boy,
            In his joy
            Whistling, brushes through the dew;
            And gentle zephyrs as they pass,
            
            Diffuse the sweets of tender grass,
            Thrilling earth with joy anew.
          
          
            One morning as Minerva fair,
            Sweet goddess of the light of man,
            Was strolling blooming valleys where
            Life's stream of cool contentment ran,
            This lovely flower she saw was gone.
          
          
            A humble spear at first it sprang,
            
            Then grew to tender branching leaves;
            A bud at length began to hang,
            And open in the dewy eves
            Alas, it perished at its dawn!
          
          
            The tiny creatures though that quaffed
            From this meek fount their sweetened fill
            The foweret vanished from their draught,
            They hover round to seek it still;
            
            But lo, the choicest flower is gone!
          
          
            Dearly though the springtime cherish,
            Flowerets sweet and newest,
            Early do the sweetest perish,
            Growing rare and fewest.
          
          
            Floweret by the brooklet blowing,
            Richly hued and sunlit;
            Sudden when its bloom is growing,
            Loving stranger plucks it.
          
          
          Stranger, when the bloom was gushing,
          Gathered all the rarest;
          On his sweetened bosom blushing,
          Surely it was fairest.
        
        
        
          VIII
          MORNING-GLORIES
          
          
            With glory sweet and tender, the blushing sunrise treads the dew.
          
          
          VIII
          MORNING-GLORIES
          
            The night comes; and the twilight tender,
            Upon day's glory settles gloom;
            Upon man's day, his God--defender
            From death's fell power and sting--the tomb.
          
          
            The Night comes; and the soul quite scorning
            To tarry at the stilly hours,
            Awaits as does the bloom of morning,
            
            The waking in a Land of Flowers.
          
          
            The morning comes. With glory sweet and tender,
            The blushing sunrise treads the dew;
            With dewy jewels bright, in splendor
            The morning-glory blooms anew.
          
          
            The Morning comes. With holy splendor gushing,
            
            Eternal morning's light is spread,
            Where wings of tuneful hosts are rushing
            To heights by happy comrades led.
          
          
            And the bards in their songs to our being,
            As light to the flower of the sod,
            In the music shall always be freeing
            And lifting us up to our God.
          
        
        
        
          IX
          SWEETLY O WIND OF MY HOMELAND
          
          
            Pause now and whisper a message brought from the old scenes at home.
          
          
          IX
          SWEETLY O WIND OF MY HOMELAND
          
            Sweetly O wind of my homeland,
            Over the world where I roam,
            Pause now and whisper a message
            Brought from the old scenes at home!
          
          
            Now in the notes of the wild wind
            Coming as down from above,
            Soundeth the heart of a mother dear,
            Bearing me ever her love.
          
          
          
            Far from the house of my father,
            Freedom invites me to roam,
            But a soft murmuring says, dear
            Father awaits me at home.
          
          
            Blow then, O winds of my homeland, blow,
            Far to the world where I roam,
            Sing me a song with a message sweet,
            Brought from the fond scenes at home!
          
          
            Hush now, a tender, soft zephyr,
            
            Playing a moment to speak,
            Wafts me the love of a friend dear,
            Kissed from a far away cheek!
          
          
            Blow, then, ye winds of my homeland, blow,
            Far to the world where I roam,
            Singing a song with a message sweet,
            Heard in the old scenes at home!
          
        
        
        
          X
          THE CALLING OF KNYPHAUSEN
          
          
            And a smile, broad, long, and mellow, would spread over Mr. Knyphausen's
              face.
          
          
          X
          THE CALLING OF KNYPHAUSEN
          (A fragment of a sketch according to tradition rummaged from the desk of Newton
            Irvinge, lately deceased, and who, tradition alleges, descended from the genial ancestor
            of Sketch-Book fame; a sketch, too, which has never before been offered to print, but
            the genius of Sir Newton's illustrious ancestor respectfully dedicates it to
            good-natured Germans and to all people good-humored and spirited.)
          A pedagogue, whose father was a Dutchman, and whose mother was an English woman, was
            the master of a rural school in a quiet valley of Germany.
          
          Through this peaceful valley flowed a gentle stream, and in the distance the roofs of
            the humble town of Muhlburg loomed up above the fields of flax and barley. The great
            over-looking sun, as it sank beyond the Zulpich Hills at the source of the Rhine, spread
            its evening glory over the rustic yet bewitching scene of the slowly grazing herd. The
            farmer, turning from his field of toil, was followed by his patient boy who car- ried home an emptied jug. Plump little children played about
            the farm-house. And all the elements were present which go to make up one of those
            beautiful farm scenes into which the joyous country boy so eagerly delights to
            enter.
          The beautiful summer gradually passed away, and in early autumn the ambitious
            pedagogue--Fritz Knyphausen, by name--who, although of very plain, common ancestry, had
            by the sheer bril- liancy of his ability, made his
            summer's stay among the cultured and educated circles of Hamburg, now returned
            to his old place near Muhlburg and took up his duties for the term of the approaching
            winter.
          The section in which Fritz Knyphausen worked was quite dilatory in its educational
            progress as compared with the better and wealthier districts of Germany. In fact, it was
            the most unlearned-- though not in that mean, vulgar
            sense--of any rural district of Emperor William's great empire. On the other
            hand, however, its people enjoyed greatly the rich blessings of a sweet, contented,
            industrious life, which, Fritz Knyphausen said, was so much envied and so much longed
            for by the 'hot-headed and cold-feeted students of learned
            society.'
          And a smile, broad, long and mellow, would spread over Mr. Knyphausen's face when some intrusive townsman, grown fat and rosy-cheeked
            from his draughts at the ale-keeper's bar, spoke of the cellar filled with
            apples and the pantry with its barrel of buck-wheat flour, and other rarities, all to be
            had at the hospitable board of one Mr. Deidric Beckrum. For this was the German
            pedagogue's boarding and lodging place. And well might he claim, as he did,
            that in those parts a more fortunate lo- cation could not
            be discovered; for there, through the long, long winter, was spread a lavish table with
            its great, rich puddings, its delicious apple cakes, its steaming pancakes, its stuffed
            goose immersed in milk gravy, and the delicious essence of sweet, tender roast pig. It
            really would make any one's mouth water to think of it.
          Moreover, at Mr. Beckrum's, after returning at evening, Fritz would take the
            baby and trot it on his knee. He would sing some old Dutch
            songs to young relatives visiting from the city; would bustle about and help his
            landlord, Deidric, feed the stock and would occasionally do the milking. And on vacation
            days the whole household would pile into the great family sleigh, and away they would
            fly, young ladies with rustic health mingling their laughter with the merry jingle of
            the sleigh bells, the great fat Deidric shouting at the snorting horses, a swarm of village curs barking and yelping, and all the world
            overflowing with merriment.
          One other element at Fritz's headquarters might not be improperly
            mentioned--the largest young lady, a maiden of nineteen. Though possessing scarcely a
            single trait of beauty to the eye of usual taste for beauty and grace, yet, probably
            according with the philosopher who said, that nothing is
            ugly in the eye of the lover, the schoolmaster's heart, at his first sight of
            her, began to thump and flutter at a high pulse, and would not down at his bidding
          This young woman possessed remarkably every trait of a Dutch girl; she not infrequently
            assisted her father at out-door work, doing such matters as loading hay in the harvest
            field, hoeing in the garden and so forth; and perhaps my irony may be pardoned should I
            venture to say that all this while she ran bare-footed,
            slopping in the mud after showers, so that when frosts came she had a nice little
            delicate foot to thrust into a number four shoe when in reality it took a large size in
            number sevens. She had light hair and large mongrel eyes, coarse features, rosy cheeks,
            and strong muscles. MaryAnn was her name; and it was known by all neighbors throughout
            her contented neighborhood as a strong synonym of
            ruggedness, strength, and hardy, rustic manners. Perhaps she bore a strong resemblance
            to the lady's girls, who said, when discussing the fitness of her girls for a
            position demanding great bodily strength, "My gehurls ihs sthrang
            gehurls!"
          It is needless to say that this hearty, rosy-cheeked Mary had a most bewitching
            attraction for the like hearty and rosy-cheeked Fritz. And although the children of his class were not of the closest observation nor of the
            quickest perception, they readily observed many a morning when he greeted them, often a
            few minutes late, a mood of drowsiness, indicated by sleepy eyes and gruff voice.
          It would require many long paragraphs and many tender words to relate the amatory
            affairs of Fritz and Mary Ann. This private affair we shall not pursue farther at
            present in this brief chron- icle except to say, as
            significant to the purpose of this sketch, that many an evening, when Fritz might have
            been in his room attentive to the duties for the next day, he and Mary Ann, with light
            turned low, would be nestling together on the plushy sofa in the cozy warmth of the snug
            Dutch parlor.
          Now it was into this warm, genial hospitality and companionship that Mr. Fritz
            Knyphausen entered at the jolly country home of Mr.
            Deidric Beckrum. As before mentioned, his duties were to begin in a few days after the
            master had returned to the humble town of Muhlburg. Upon arriving at Muhlburg at a late
            hour, he found his way to a tavern with its plenty of drink, tobacco smoke and cheese.
            Travelers who have passed through that town declare that its cheese is of the kind to
            which the Irishman referred, when remark- ing upon his
            experience he exclaimed, "Begorra, the cheese was so good ye could walk right
            up to it the darkest night that iver wuz without a lantern!" The sign of the
            inn was the "Spitzenfaulk House" and here Fritz Knyphausen stopped for
            the night.
          The next morning, in the golden beauty of autumn, Mr. Beckrum, the kind, jolly,
            free-hearted gentleman with whom his friend Fritz had heretofore staid during two winters, called at the Spitzenfaulk House, upon the
            pedagogue, and, after a hearty greeting, spiced with several draughts of ale, all
            baggage placed under the carriage seat, away they went, out from the suburbs of the
            drowsy city into the serene air of the beautiful country.
          They approach a lonely, neglected graveyard, with a few broken or over-turned
            tomb-stones and some recently rounded graves. With a voice choked from sorrow- ful emotion and eyes moist in uncustomary tears, Deidric
            relates the loss of his favorite child, Johnie. They draw to a halt at the place where
            an unworn path leads from the road to a little hillock. Mr. Knyphausen alights; but a
            bereaved father sits in the carriage with a sad, far-away look, buried in his emotions.
            The pedagogue plucks a bouquet of late growing flowers and places them, no doubt with
            tender regards, on the grave of his little friend and they
            drive away.
          Mr. Beckrum had a head-stone with a little inscription erected in memory of his son.
            Some mischievous, vagrant artist wandering about the country, had disgraced the
            sentiment inscribed by the authority of Johnie's parents. They had caused this
            clearly lettered inscription to be engraved:
          
            Little Johnie died at eleven;
            Surely Johnie went to Heaven.
          
          
          Beneath these two lines the mischievous engraver had cut in rude letters:
          
            May be you're mistaken; who can tell
            May be--
          
          (At this point the original manuscript is mutilated and illegible, and it seems best to
            give it in blank without attempt at emendation.)
          However, Johnie's father and the pedagogue soon arrived at the good home with
            its kindly welcom- ing surroundings and its particularly
            sociable inmates. The few days before his work began, he spent about the genial hearth,
            where, as the soldier in his stories of war, shoulders his gun and fights his battles
            over again, so this talkative schoolmaster, in like manner, recounted his experiences in
            the society and University of Hamburg.
          Fritz Knyphausen was now again in his old neighborhood ready for his duties of the winter. Save two or three leading families like Mr.
            Beckrum's, the neighborhood was peopled with folks of mixed and degraded
            nationality. Being a district near the northern border of the great Mohammedan states in
            southeastern Europe, many outcasts, fugitives and vagabonds who in those countries had
            violated law or fallen from grace, here, in a quiet district peopled originally by
            undisturbed German families, found a place either for
            refuge or further depredation. Through frequent association these German people and
            immigrant foreigners had become more and more adapted to each other. And through their
            inter-marriage, a young generation of what we might roughly term half or mixed breeds
            was growing up.
          These youngsters indeed were of a rare composition. With a mother of Mohammedan descent
            and a fa- ther, perhaps of Moorish ancestry, what more
            could be expected in the off-spring, than a strange, surly amalgamation of stubbornness,
            stupidity and degeneracy of intellect! Not only this, as to their mental nature, but a
            like coarseness and unrefinement in their physical makeup.
          Indeed, to meet one of those surly little urchins in the pale dusk of evening,
            one's imagination would easily and irresistibly trans- form him into a little monster of a young savage. His eyes would
            turn green and glisten; his hair, as coarse as hog-bristles, would stand erect like an
            Indian's; and his face and hands, sunburnt and be-smeared with dirt, would
            shine like an African's.
          Of such, at least, was Fritz Knyphausen's class largely composed. His work
            began with an attendance of twenty or two dozen such charges. Their master was a person who assumed to possess some little breeding, and
            facts on hygiene. He had ample room to display all his excellence along those lines.
            Many times the boys came to class with sleepy eyes, with uncombed hair, and often with
            feathers in it from the pillow.
          On some days the pedagogue occupied the most of his time in threshing and lecturing
            alternately. He constantly made attempts to remove from his pupils several freaks of expression and several peculiar bits of dialect;
            but his attempts were mostly in vain. Such was the case in several instances.
          One day a little mischievous lad was splashing water on his inoffensive playmate,
            whereupon the latter exclaimed, "Stop! you splash me wet!" One
            presumptive little fellow unreservedly exclaimed to his master that he was
            "as-gin-a-big" as his brother. Evidently this form of expression was partly acquired and partly hereditary. And
            one day at noontime a dogged old Dutchman, without asking the master to excuse his boy,
            called to him, saying, "Kome, Czhon, let's kum by de woods, make up de
            fence and do otther dinghs like dose!"
          With such events, time passed on and winter was at hand. The master was in the habit of
            having a part of some Friday once or twice in the year,
            for a sort of recreation and amusement. On such occasions the youngsters were required
            to speak, sing a song or write a story.
          Fritz had some charges full of devilish spirits who would make some odd remarks and do
            some foolish things purposely; others again, who made great blunders, though in real
            earnest. On one of these occasions Mr. Knyphausen's program was in part as
            follows, word for word, as here outlined.
          Speaker number one, a recitation. This speaker had for a recitation a Dutch version of
            "Mary and her Little Lamb," which sounded something like this:
          
            "Dot Mary haf got ein leedle schaf,
            Mit hair schoost like some vool;
            Und all der place dot gal did vent,
            Das schaf go like em fool."
          
          Speaker number three, a song. This girl sang (how sweetly
            I can not say) a fragment of an old rhyme (perhaps now obsolete)--no one in the
            neighborhood knew who wrote it or where it came from. No one now should attempt to sing
            it. So far as it has been possible to determine, the tune to the thing is now unknown.
            It is doubtful whether even she, herself, knew it. She found the words though in the
            back of her great-grandfather's old spelling book. I fail to see the point she wished to reach in rendering it. Here it is.
            (Judging by the spelling the lines are of Irish origin.)
          
            "'Twas at the town of nate Cloghen,
            That Captain Snap met Paddy Carey;
            A claner boy was niver seen,
            Brisk as a bee and light as a fairy.
            His brawny shoulders four feet square,
            
            His face like thumping red potaties,
            His legs would make a chairman stare,
            And Pat was loved by all the ladies.
            Old and young, grave or sad,
            Deaf and dumb, dull or mad.
            Waddling, waddling, limping, squinting,
            Light, brisk and airy,
            All the sweet faces at Limerick races,
            
            From Mullinavat to Magherafelt,
            At Paddy's beautiful name would melt;
            And sowls would cry,
            And look so shy,
            Ough! Cushlamachree, did you niver see,
            The jolly boy, the darling joy, the ladies' toy!
            Nimble-footed, black-ey'd, rosy- cheeked,
            Curly-headed Paddy Carey!
            
            Ough! tight Paddy, beautiful Paddy,
            Nate little,
            Swate little,
            Paddy Carey."
          
          And so forth.
          Other like numbers may have been rendered on the day of such festivities, but here, as
            the saying goes, a word to the wise is sufficient.
          Mr. Knyphausen was now getting into interesting circumstances, not only in his
            professional inter- ests, but likewise in the rustic
            social circles of the community.
          And when evening comes that day the key is turned for a week's recreation and
            merriment at the nearing Yuletide of peace and good will. At the season of the Great
            Birthday the home of Mr. Beckrum becomes the center of festivity and merriment for the
            country round.
          The scholar now has dropped his student's book and pen, antici- pating as he lightly hies along beneath the portent, sunless sky,
            the merry circle at his landlord's radiant hearth. The leaden sky lets fall a
            few white flakes, increasing now apace, and ere he makes the Beckrum home, the brook
            along the meadow and the fading landscape and the quickly waning day have darkened into
            gloaming.
          He pauses at the gate; and merry skaters halloo and shout their joy in sport upon the
            glassy ice. But hark! a postman, muffled for the storm,
            draws up his rein at this unwonted hour, and places in the hero's hand a letter
            with a ponderous red seal, bearing the impress, Dicite omnibus.
          The postman wheels about. Noisy hoofs clatter away and anon are gone. Presently the
            good land-lady opens the door. Her countenance beams with welcoming hospitality not less
            than the great brilliant parlor glows with holiday cheer
            and decoration within. She ushers Fritz Knyphausen into a goodly company of knightly
            gentlemen and gracious ladies.
          But ah, in a moment the red seal has been slyly removed and the lover--a hero now too,
            must depart. The ample table arrayed with all its delicious edibles prepared by jolly
            country lasses, the cheerful hearth, with its cellared companions garnered from orchard
            and forest, and the kind, lovely inmates of the home, all
            these must be sacrificed for a while to answer the call of the hour.
          All his wardrobe left behind, a chuckled 'good-by till a day in June'
            to a merry girl in apron and kitchen trim, then mounted on a gray charger, a few last
            words to Mr. Beckrum as he loosed the bridle rein at the gate, and the Hamburg student
            galloped away to the station.
          (The sequel it seems is deplor- ably lost, and to solve
            the issue of the sudden departure, the reader, for the present at least, is left
            alone.)
        
        
        
          XI
          THE GREAT BIRTHDAY
          
          
            And lo, the wise men saw descended in eastern skies, an astral light.
          
          
          XI
          THE GREAT BIRTHDAY
          
            In ancient Bethlehem of Judea,
            A humble village meek and low,
            Our holy Christmas first was ushered
            One gladsome morning long
          
          
            Across the world the light terrestrial
            Was breaking at he hour of day;
            
            But ah, I ween a light celestial
            Was falling where an Infant lay.
          
          
            'Twas Night; its somber pall enshrouded
            A sleeping world adark and lone,
            Save in the spangled tent of heaven
            Where blessed twinkling jewels shone.
          
          
            Nocturnal benisons were falling,
            Invoked by quaint and ancient towers;
            
            And drowsy chanticleers were calling,
            Like olden guards, the passing hours.
          
          
            The Holy Land was wrapped in slumber,
            But patient shepherds through the night,
            Their gentle flocks in silence watching,
            Were waiting for the morning light.
          
          
          
            But night was swallowed up in glory,
            And stars were paled in splendor then,
            As haloed angels told the story
            Of "Peace on earth, good will to men!"
          
          
            And lo, the wise men saw descended,
            In eastern skies directing them,
            An astral light on high suspended
            And moving on toward Bethlehem.
          
          
          
            There, in the stable's lowly manger,
            Ere morning's light of day arose,
            The shepherds found a little stranger
            Enwrapped in coarse and swaddling clothes.
          
          
            Then praise and song to God were rendered,
            From David's city, soon astir;
            And gifts to Mary's babe were tendered,
            
            Of gold and frankincense and myrrh.
          
          
            Anon the joyous day was ushered
            With tidings of the wondrous birth;
            That was the grandest Christmas morning
            That ever dawned upon the earth!
          
          
            Oh! praise and song to God the highest!
            And peace on earth, good will to men;
            
            For unto man is born the Christ,
            Of love unknown to mortal ken.
          
          
            Thus holy Christmas came of Heaven,
            Of love divine, a day to give;
            Thus, unto fallen man was given,
            The Son of God that man might live!
          
        
        
        
          XII
          'CONCLUSIONS'
          
          
            I kept a wise silence and a patient smile as he related the mystery.
          
          
          XII
          'CONCLUSIONS'
          My friend, Mr. Munsey, had been in Gaston only since September; and when I dropped into
            his cozy room just after the holidays, about a year ago, he smiled, closed his book
            tight, and threw it down on the table, as though he were very glad to see me.
          It is always a treat for me to visit at Mr. and Mrs. Speed's. For two winters
            I had occupied the room where we now sat, and had enjoyed
            the warm hearth and hearts of the home of Mr. and Mrs. Speed. My friend, too, had not
            failed to know the hospitality of that good home. Indeed, the name, Mrs. E. W. Speed,
            had become a synonym of good will and of special sacrifice to her neighbors and
            friends.
          "Bert, you didn't get a pair of No. 7, slightly worn, Cinderilla
            shoes for Christmas, did you? inquired my friend with a tone of rather uncertain presentiment.
          "No!"
          "Well, sir," he went on then, "I made a purchase about a
            week before Christmas over at Hansen's Shoe House, but something certainly went
            with them, for I looked high and low here, but had to start for home without my
            Cinderillas. I don't know--Mrs. Speed was out in town that evening I left,
            taking some things around to the poor people--it was Christmas eve-- you know she's always giving something, especially about
            Christmas--she's such a great charity worker--I never said anything to the
            folks here about it. What are your conclusions, Bert?"
          Just then the postman interrupted at the door.
          "Here's a card for Mrs. Speed. O, Mrs. Speed!" my friend
            called.
          "She's out in town. I just met her going up the street as I came
            down," I interposed in response.
          
          I had had the same experience as my good friend, in the same room, at the same time of
            year, myself a year before; and I kept a wise silence and a patient smile, as he related
            the mystery.
          "Well, Great Scott!"
          This exclamation from my friend suddenly startled me. But I listened with an arch smile
            as he proceeded to read from the postal: 
              
                
                  "Good Mrs. Speed--many, many thanks to you for them things you sent to us by your nice little boy, Walter. such a nice
                    boy. John and me and Sis'es little girl all went to meetin sunday and I
                    wore the silk dress and it's just as good as new fur me, and Johns
                    shoes are just as soft and nice. Thair the best shoes, he ever had awn.
                  
                    very thankfully,
                    Mrs. John Winkil."
                  
                
              
            
          
          There was a hurried silence when I rejoined merrily, "Now,  my good comrade, I think we can state in just so many words what
            our 'conclusions' are;" whereupon the good gentleman only
            first took a deep breath and then smiled broadly. 
        
      
    
     
  
