
     ----CITATION---- 
        Clark, Thomas Curtis, 1877-1953. Poems and Songs: electronic edition. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2008).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA3908
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    PoemsANDSONGS
                
                
                    Thomas Curtis Clark
                
            
            
            
                Press ofChristian Publishing CompanySt. Louis
            
            
            
                To my Mother and Father,the Guardians of my Youth,the
                    Inspiration of my Manhood,this BookIs Lovingly Dedicated.
                T.C.C.
            
            
            
                
                    If but one verse of mine shall know not death,
                    If but one simple song be loved for aye,
                    Then shall I thank the God who gave me breath
                    For verse and song, though all else pass away.
                
            
        
        
            
            
                Poems and Songs
                
                     THE WAY THAT LEADS BACK HOME.
                    
                        OUT from the noisy town it leads,
                        Where malice and deceit are rife;
                        Out from the realm where pride is queen,
                        Where men contend in heartless strife.
                        No voice disturbs the quietness
                        Which thrills me as again I roam
                        By flowery fields, a boy again,
                        And seek the way that leads back home.
                    
                    
                        Thr robin choir glad welcome gives,
                        Clear caling in their lofts of green;
                        The melody of singing brooks
                        Is mingled with the summer sheen.
                        'Mid quiet vales my way leads on,
                        Through aisles of emerald and chrome,
                        Foretelling joys soon to be mine,--
                        For 'tis the way that leads back home.
                    
                    
                        Let those who will, leave homely paths
                        To find heart's ease in land afar,
                        Let those who will, contentment seek
                        On rolling sea 'neath alien star
                        But give to me, I humbly ask.
                        The toy I know as through the goam,
                        I turn from all the world can give
                        To seek the way that heads back home.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE HOME IN THE HILLS.
                    
                        WAYWORN and weary, my life all dreary,
                        Ceaseless I wander the darkened world o'er:
                        My soul is sighing, my heart is crying
                        O for that homeland of yore.
                    
                    
                        Refrain.
                        Lonely I wander, hither and yonder,
                        Sorrow my heart ever fillls;
                        My soul is yearning, my heart is turning
                        Back to that home in the hills.
                    
                    
                        Skies e'er were cheery, days ne'er were dreary,
                        Gleamed the bright sunshine the happy day through;
                        Theme dwelt my mother, there played my brother
                        Out in the daisies and dew.
                    
                    
                        Hear, cease thy aching; heart, cease thy breaking;
                        God to His children must ever be true;
                        Cease thy sad yearning, there' a returning
                        Homeward, in heaven's bright blue!
                    
                
                
                
                    DREAMING.
                    
                        AS I sit alone in the friendly light
                        Of the glowing fire, the fiendish night
                        Slinks far away; and to fancy's sight
                        There comes vison of distant years;
                        For the fairies of dreams bear me far away
                        To the happy realms whence I went astray
                        To tread the paths, 'neath the skies all gray,
                        Of Grown-up Land, by the River Tears.
                    
                    
                        I follow again, as in olden days,
                        The old home road, the shady ways,
                        And whistle unthinking, my young heart's praise
                        To Him who made heaven and earth so fair;
                        I wander down by the winding stream
                        And lift to its whispers, and grandly dream
                        Of the ocean beyond, where great ships teem,
                        Embarking on journeys to Everywhere.
                    
                    
                        I roam again through the orchard lands,
                        Far-thronged with children, in happy bands
                        Frolicking gaily, with ruthless hands
                        Plucking the daisies from mead and dale;
                        But hear! the voices grow fainter,--and fast
                        Out from the summer-time now I have passed
                        Far, far away! Without, winter's wild blast
                        Falls on my heart like a lost spirit's wail.
                    
                
                
                
                    A SONG OF THE LONG AGO.
                    
                        O the happy, happy Land of the Long Ago,
                        When the days were full of music,
                        Every heart aglow
                        With the passion hour of youth
                        And purity!
                        Not a cloud was there to mar
                        Those fair skies above;
                        Lie was then an endles song,
                        And its theme was love,--
                        In that happy, happy Land of Long Ago.
                    
                    
                        O the happy, happy Land of the Long Ago!
                        I can hear the whisp'ring winds
                        O'er the orchards blow,
                        And the brooklet's cheery singing
                        On its way.
                        I can see the black-eyed dasies
                        In the fields of light,
                        And the cattle homeward coming
                        Through the falling night,
                        In that happy, happy Land of Long Ago.
                    
                    
                    
                        O the happy, happy Land of the Long Ago!
                        How I long for that dear realm,
                        Its rare joys to know!
                        But a voice within me whispers
                        "Nevermore!"
                        I Barred the gates of that fair Eden,
                        Happy Boyhood Land,
                        And an Angel stands to guard it
                        With unyielding hand,--
                        That dear happy, happy Land of Long Ago.
                    
                
                
                
                    HOW FAR IS IT TO CHILDHOOD TOWN?
                    
                        HOW far is it to Childhood Town?
                        A wee one asked of me,
                        Not knowing of the pain she gave,--
                        My heart she could not see;
                        For as I sought, in simple words,
                        To please her eager ears,
                        A tear broke past unwilling eyes,
                        Which looked on other years.
                    
                    
                         How far is it to Childhod Town?
                        Oh, many miles, my child!
                        Beyond the Mountains of Defeat,
                        Where blasted hopes are piled;
                        Beyond the Vale of Sorrow, where
                        The trees with blight are brown;
                        Far, far away that happy place
                        We once called Childhood Town!
                    
                    
                    
                        How far is it Childhood Town?
                        Far past the sun-scorched plain
                        Where thronging men, with hearts inflamed,
                        Wage war for sordid gain;
                        Far o'er the Sea, where many ships
                        Have stranded and gone down.
                        Oh, far away that happy realm
                        We once called Childhood Town!
                    
                    
                        And yet your hear, my happy child,
                        Feels naught of human woe;
                        No mount, no vale, no stormy sea
                        Your simple life can know;
                        For you a river, passing fair,
                        Flows evermore adown
                        By that rare realm, sweet Fairyland,
                        Your own dear Childhood Town.
                    
                
                
                
                    YESTERDAY
                    
                        YESTERDAY we roamed the meadows,
                        In our hearts nor cares nor fears;
                        Naught we knew of coming shadows,
                        Naught of future flooding tears.
                        All the months were sunny May
                        In that glad sweet yesterday.
                    
                    
                        Yesterday the hours we squandered,--
                        Squandered well, in love's fond joy;
                        Many weary miles we wandered,--
                        Weary, but in rare employ.
                        Purpose ever went astray
                        In that blithesome yesterday.
                    
                    
                        Yesterday the songs were rarer,
                        Sung in robin minstrelsy:
                        Yesteday the flow's were fairer
                        Than they e'er again can be.
                        Skies were blue, and never gray
                        In that matchless yesterday.
                    
                    
                    
                        Yesterday the brooklet carolled
                        Love songs to your soul and mine;
                        Every song-bird seemed a herald
                        From my bursting heart to thine,
                        Breathing thoughts no lips could say
                        In that brimming yesterday.
                    
                    
                        Yesterday! Gone is the vision
                        Telling of a day now dead!
                        Though I hear, in notes elysian,
                        Robins singing overhead,
                        Yet they sing not, Love, to me,
                        As in that glad yesterday.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE ISLAND OF DREAMS.
                    
                        OVER the mist-shrouded Ocean of Years,
                        Lighted by memory's gleams,
                        Far from the Mainland of Sorrow and Tears,
                        Lieth the Island of Dreams.
                        Cometh no winter to that blissul Isle;
                        There summer, reigneth for aye;
                        On its fair gardens abideth the smile
                        Of a ne'er-vanishing day.
                    
                    
                        Far o'er its meadows, where wild roses blow,
                        By its soft-murmuring streams,
                        Childen play ever, with faces aglow,
                        Rapt in the joy of their dreams.
                        Never a cloud mars the blue of those skies,
                        No dark'ning tempest or rain.
                        Sunshine abides where that happy Isle lies,
                        Far o'er the mist-shrouded main.
                    
                    
                    
                        Yet, from that Island, in ships passing fair,
                        Light herb embark all the day,
                        Seeking the City of Knowledge, somewhere
                        Out o'er the billowy way.
                        Over the water the ships bear them far,--
                        Lost is the Island of Dreams;
                        Outward they speed them, past hindeing bar,
                        Seeking the City's fair gleams.
                    
                    
                        Far in the Westland the Island is lost;
                        Soon from the East cometh night;
                        Over the Ocean of Years they are tossed,
                        Longing for day and for light.
                        Still for them shineth Hope's radiant star,
                        Beckoning evermore on
                        Over the ocean that stretches afar
                        Unto the eternal Dawn.
                    
                
                
                
                    A QUESTION.
                    
                        SLEEP, innocent babe, on your fond mother's breast;
                        Still slumber and dream in your soft, cozy nest;
                        I wonder, my babe, could you know all the years,
                        Would you smile as you sleep, or perish in tears?
                    
                    
                        The sorrows of childhood are waiting for you;
                        Your toys shall be broken, dreams fail to come true;
                        Your playmates shall leave you alone at your play;
                        Lake sorrows of year shall seem tears of a day.
                    
                    
                        A soul-trying struggle is waiting your youth,
                        For they must fight bravely who seek after truth;
                        The heights are for those who will strive to attain;
                        I wonder, my child, will you strive but in vain?
                    
                    
                        Bereavement and sorrow your manhood shall bring,
                        Fair hopes shall be blighted by failure's dread sting,
                        Fond friends oft shall leave you to suffer alone;
                        For bread you shall ask, they will give you a stone.
                    
                    
                        The snows of Iife's winter shall cover your head
                        As lonely you stand amid hopes that are dead;
                        The young shall neglect you, as helpless you wait
                        'Mid deepening shadows that linger too late.
                    
                    
                        Sleep, innocent babe, on your fond mothers breast;
                        Still slumber and dream in your soft, cozy nest;
                        I wonder, my babe, could you know all the years,
                        Would you smile as you sleep, or perish in tears?
                    
                
                
                
                    HOME.
                    
                        JUST a rude, unlovely dwelling,
                        Hid among the orchard trees;
                        Up above it sing the wild birds,
                        Round about it hum the bees.
                        But I love that simple homestead,
                        With its quaint, old-fashioned dome,
                        Moss-begirt and ivy-covered,-
                        For it' home.
                    
                    
                        Fairer scenes my eyes have witnessed
                        TIhan that old place on the hill,
                        Fairer flowers than those a-blooming
                        In the meadow by the mill;
                        But somehow my heart beats faster,
                        When I'm coming through the gloam,
                        And I see the lights a-beaming
                        There at home.
                    
                    
                        How the river sings and ripples,
                        As I cross its moonlit stream!
                        Hark! the watch-dog breaks the silence,
                        And I catch the flick'ring gleam
                        Of the old lamp in the window,
                        Bidding me no longer roam,-
                        And I know some one waits by it,
                        For it's, home!
                    
                
                
                
                    A SONG TO CHILDHOOD.
                    
                        CHILDHOOD, with thy visions teeming,
                        O return, renew thy dreaming!
                        Bid the sun to shine again,
                        Banish clouds and driving rain;
                        Put into the song-birds' throats
                        Those surpassing mellow notes,
                        As in that rare olden time
                        When, atune with sweet bells' chime,
                        We, through meadows dairy-thronged,
                        Wandered, where no care belonged;
                        When, in glad days brimmng o'er,
                        Long we pondered Nature's lore,
                        Innocent of lean'ed books,
                        Well content with birds and brooks;
                        Free from carking care and sorrow,
                        Caring not what brought the morrow.
                        Childhood, O return again,
                        Banish clouds and driving rain;
                        Speak once more, in accents cheery,
                        To this heart, of world woes weary!
                    
                
                
                
                    GOD IS NOT FAR!
                    
                        GOD is not far from any one of us:
                        The wild flower by the wayside speaks His love;
                        Each blithesome bird bears tidings from above;
                        Sunshine and shower His tender mercies prove,
                        And men know not His voice!
                    
                    
                        God is not far from any one of us:
                        He speaks to us in every glad sunrise;
                        His glory floods us from the noonday skies;
                        The stars declare His love when daylight dies,
                        And men know not His voice!
                    
                    
                        God is not far from any one of us:
                        He watches o'er His children day and night;
                        On every darkened soul He sheds His light;
                        Each burdened heart He cheers, and Iends His might
                        To all who know His voice.
                    
                
                
                
                    LIFE.
                    
                        As little children playing along the wide seashore
                        Gathering pearly shells, tuning them o'e and o'er,
                        Tiring of each in turn but to seek a brighter one,-
                        So play we, children all till life's play hour is done
                    
                    
                        As little children playing along the wide seashore,
                        Building their houses of sand where the wild waters roar,
                        Then, when the waves devour, crying out to the heedless deep,-
                        So play we, children all, and are left on the shore to weep.
                    
                    
                        As little children playing along the wide seashore,
                        Launching their fragile barks freighted with precious store,
                        Tracing their wayward course till the waves their treasures spend,-
                        So play we, children all, and shall unto the end.
                    
                
                
                    MAKE IT TRUE.
                    
                        THE song may be simple God asks you to sing,
                        The words may seem worthless and few
                        Its accents may not fo the world"a hearing ring;
                        But I pray you, my child make it true.
                    
                    
                        The task may be humble God give to your hand,-
                        Too meager a service, think you?
                        It may not be lauded through all the broad lands;
                        But I pray you, my child, make it true.
                    
                    
                    
                        The life may be lowly God asks you to live,
                        Not such as you think is your due;
                        But take just that life He has thought best to give,
                        And I pray you, my child, make it true.
                    
                
                
                    THE PRAYER OF HOPE.
                    
                        GIVE Thou, O Lord, more joy, more pain,
                        Thy will shall sov'reign be;
                        But let there be a blended strain
                        Of varied harmony.
                    
                    
                        With darker threads weave too, we pray,
                        The silver and the gold;
                        Life's pattern, then, in that last Day,
                        Shall richest beauties hold.
                    
                    
                        Let every cloud be pierced through
                        With some bright rays of light;
                        If Thou canst not give heaven's blue,
                        Let some stars cheer the night.
                    
                    
                        And yet 'tis not for us to mete
                        Our share of joy, of pain;
                        If 'tis Thy will, fit us to greet
                        Less sunshine and more rain.
                    
                
                
                
                    LOVES MIRACLE.
                    
                        IN pain I wrought beside Iife's ceasless loom;
                        My hands were worn, my eyes suffused with tears;
                        For all the threads were dark, I wove but gloom
                        Into the pattern of the passing years.
                    
                    
                        As thus I wrought, a vision came to me;
                        Love stood beside and spake in accents sweet:
                        "These threads of brighter hue I give to thee;
                        Take them, I pray, and know thou joy complete."
                    
                    
                        The proffered gift was mine; with hope renewed,
                        I wove the golden threads into the gray;
                        I wrought in rapture now; with gratitude
                        My soul was filled, that Love had shown the way.
                    
                
                
                    THE CHOICE.
                    
                        TWO angels, on the Way of Life,
                        Essayed my course to guide,
                        Meek Service, bending 'neath her cross,-
                        And Pleasure, crowned in pride.
                    
                    
                        First, Pleasure led my footsteps on,-
                        'Mid groves and gardens fair,
                        Where Laughter reigned as king o'er all,-
                        For no sad heart was there.
                    
                    
                        Then Service gently took my hand
                        And led me through the Vale,
                        Where human hearts with pain are wrung,
                        And human wishes fail.
                    
                    
                    
                        There, as I walked 'mid sighs and tears,
                        The Christ stood by my side;
                        I took His hand and spake in joy:
                        "Here, too, would I abide."
                    
                
                
                    THE TRANSFORMED MIND.
                    
                        'TWAS once my wish to view my name
                        Inscribed once fame's fair scroll;
                        'Tis now reward enough for me,
                        To now some burdened soul
                        Has by my words been comforted,
                        And into gladder ways been led.
                    
                    
                        I once desired to boast as mine
                        A hoard of shining gold,
                        But now I fret not, nor repine,
                        If in my hand I hold
                        The means to make some sad heart sing,
                        And into gloom some gladness bring.
                    
                    
                        I thirsted once for ample might
                        To make each man my slave;
                        But now I see, with transformed sight,
                        That nobler 'tis to crave
                        To serve my fellow-men in love,
                        A brother's fellowship to prove.
                    
                
                
                
                    COMPENSATION.
                    
                        ONE heaped unto himself a hoard
                        Of silver and of gold;
                        His lordly ships sailed distant seas,
                        And brought him wealth untold.
                    
                    
                        His fellows marvelled at his power;
                        In awe they spake his name;
                        Unto the farthest bounds of earth
                        Was heralded his fame.
                    
                    
                        One poured from out a burdened heart
                        A wealth of tender song;
                        He cheered the trav'ler on his way,
                        He made the weak soul strong.
                    
                    
                        His fellows held him poor, despised,
                        And lightly make his name;
                        He heeded not, but lived and loved
                        And sang, no thought of fame.
                    
                    
                        Long years went by; from earth had passed
                        The singer and the lord;
                        Each went his way; to each there came
                        Due judgement and reward:
                    
                    
                        The world forgot with ruthless haste
                        The master of the mart,
                        But all the sons the bard had sung,
                        It treasured in its heart.
                    
                
                
                
                    MY PILOT KNOWS.
                    
                        AS moves my fragile bark across the storm-swept sea,
                        Great waves beat o'er her side,
                        As North-wind blows;
                        Deep in the darkness hid, lie threat'ning rocks and shoals;
                        But all of these - and more,
                        My Pilot knows.
                    
                    
                        Sometimes, when dark the night, and every light gone out,
                        I wonder to what port
                        My frail bark goes;
                        Still, though the night be long, and restless all my hours,
                        My distant goal, I'm sure,
                        My pilot knows.
                    
                
                
                    NOTHING IS LOST.
                    
                        NOTHING is lost! the drop of rain,
                        Which falls in silence to the ground,
                        Abideth still; its life is found
                        Transfigured in the golden grain.
                    
                    
                        Nothing is lost! the lowly flower,
                        Which grows unnoticed by the way,
                        Lives well in praising, through its day,
                        The God who made it by his power.
                    
                    
                        Nothing is lost! the falling tear,
                        The word of comfort, lightly given,
                        Shall still abide in yonder heaven,
                        When earth's rich fruitage shall appear.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BETTER GIFTS.
                    
                        I ask not, Lord, to bring the light
                        To eyes in darkness sealed;
                        I ask not power to open ears,
                        And bid them music yield;
                        I ask Thee but to make me strong
                        To lend the light of love,
                        To bring to hearts, by discord bound,
                        The music from above.
                    
                    
                        I seek not, Lord, to know the cure
                        For wasting leper's spot;
                        I ask not power to raise the dead
                        In triumph from his cot;
                        I pray for knowledge but to save
                        The weak from spot of sin;
                        To touch the palsied hearts of men,
                        And let Thy love-life in.
                    
                
                
                
                    CAESAR AND CHRIST.
                    
                        PROUD Caesar came in strength of steel;
                        The panoply of war was his.
                        At his command men poured forth life,
                        The cities perished, nations fell.
                        He left as heritage a blood-stained tide;
                        He came, he scorned, his slaughtered,-
                        And he died.
                    
                    
                        The meek Christ came, His strength the true,
                        A heart of love His panoply.
                        At his command men poured forth life,
                        The cities perished, nations grew.
                        As heritage, the reign of Peace He gives;
                        He came, He loved, He pitied,-
                        And He lives.
                    
                
                
                    JUDAS.
                    
                        ALLOWED to sit at His dear feet
                        And know His look of love,
                        To walk with Him in pastures sweet,
                        And then a traitor prove!
                        To know the glory of His light
                        And then to choose the rayless night!
                    
                    
                        O tragedy past tongue to tell,
                        That ever mortal should,
                        By compact with the tribes of hell,
                        Pour out his Savior's blood!
                        And that for just a bit of gold
                        The fleshly hand of man could hold!
                    
                
                
                
                    LIGHT IN DARKNESS.
                    
                        AS children tossing in the night,
                        About them darkness, vast and deep,
                        Oft wake to seek the laggard light,
                        Then in Love's arms fall back to seep;
                    
                    
                        So we, when night seems all too long,
                        Cry for the coming of the day,
                        Then from vain longings seek Thy strong
                        And willing arms, and trust for aye.
                    
                
                
                    WHAT IS OUR LIFE?
                    
                        WHAT is our life? A stubborn school,
                        In which we all are led reluctantly
                        To weary tasks. The Master's rod oft grievous seems,
                        And hard to bear; and many, in despair,
                        Throw of the irksome burden, and hurl themselves
                        Into a darkened future.
                    
                    
                        Those of a stronger soul quail not at problems hard
                        The Master gives to them; but with persistent toil
                        They solve them one by one. And to these souls
                        Is greater prize than such success:
                        Through struggle long and hard, to them has come
                        A Samson-strength of spirit; and, greater far,
                        That quaity of noble minds.
                        Divine humility.
                    
                
                
                
                    A CHRISTMAS PRAYER.
                    
                        ON storied Judah's sacred hills
                        A joyous cry was heard,
                        "A king is born in Bethlehem;"
                        All men took up the word.
                        Unto the lowly manger crib
                        Came pesant, seer and king,
                        And bending low, by love inspired,
                        Brought each his offering.
                    
                    
                        O Savior, on this Christmas Day
                        Our gifts we bear to thee;
                        No gold, no frankincense and myrrh
                        We bring on bended knee.
                        Our minds we bring, to make them thine;
                        Our hearts, to learn Thy love;
                        Our hands-O that they ever, Lord,
                        Obedient may prove!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE SPIRIT OF HOPE.
                    
                        SAY not past days were best; believe that God,
                        Of whom are all the days, hath better things
                        For those who do His will. His store of good
                        Exhaustless is, and He but waits to know
                        His children can receive that best
                        He yearns still to bestow.
                    
                
                
                    TRUE WORSHIP.
                    
                        A burdened heart lightened,
                        A darkened life brightened,
                        Is offering better than gold.
                    
                    
                        A song, sung in gladness,
                        A smile, boon to sadness,
                        Doth come as a psalm unto Him.
                    
                    
                         A word gently spoken,
                        A crust gladly broken,
                        Is prayer that avails at His throne.
                    
                
                
                
                    A MOTTO FOR TO-DAY.
                    
                        NOT for the eyes of men
                        May this day's work be done;
                        But unto Thee, O God,
                        That, with the setting sun,
                        My heart may know the matchless prize
                        Of sure approval in Thine eyes!
                    
                
                
                    A MEDITATION.
                    LORD, give me wisdom to know the true values of life; may I regard thoughts
                        rather than books, deeds, rather than words, men rather than things.
                    Give me an open heart for the lesson each hour brings: by day, may the
                        flowers teach me Thy love; by night, the stars instruct me in Thy wisdom.
                        Let not the mesage of the blithesome bird, the unwearied river, the
                        reposeful hill, the limitless blue of the sky be meaningless to me.
                    Give me vision to see the great in the small, in the temporal, the eternal;
                        in the blade of grass may the universe be revealed; in the present duty,
                        eternal destiny; in each loving friend, the great Friend of us all.
                
                
                
                    THE TRUE NEED.
                    
                        Not that the laurel crown shall rest
                        Upon the eager brow,
                        But that, when fate denies our quest,
                        We may of joy still be possessed
                        Nor in dejection bow.
                    
                    
                        We know Thou doest all things well;
                        Let come what may, or good or ill,
                        The victor's crown or martyr's cross,
                        The joy of gain or grief of loss,--
                        Teach us that all is of Thy will,
                        And that is best.
                    
                
                
                    HOPE.
                    
                        THE deeds that through the world have rung
                        Were done 'mid doubts and fears;
                        The tend'rest songs that e'er were sung
                        Were born of tears.
                    
                    
                        The fairest visions come in dreams,
                        In darkness of the night;
                        And hope's fair rainbow fairer seems
                        To tear-blurred sight.
                    
                    
                        The light of love more brightly shines,
                        When fates no longer bless;
                        The heart of man to God inclines,
                        When in distress.
                    
                
                
                
                    A NATION'S PRAYER.
                    
                        THOU God of nations, Then we seek,
                        Who only can the nations bless;
                        In triumph's hour O keep us meek,
                        To follow in Thy righteousness!
                    
                    
                        Still guide us by Thy perfect light,
                        Lest, blinded by the pride of power,
                        We wander from the path of right,
                        To perish in an evil hour.
                    
                    
                        Without Thee we should build in vain
                        The walls which it is our to raise;
                        Forsake us not, but still sustain
                        And guide our hands in coming days.
                    
                    
                        Still may we, as the years unfold,
                        Make way for Freedom's endless reign;
                        By word and deed may we uphold
                        Her honor, that she bear no stain.
                    
                    
                        Let righteousness still be our throne,
                        Our sceptre love, from malice free,
                        And truth the crown Thy name will own
                        Through all the years that are to be.
                    
                
                
                
                    TO THE STARS.
                    
                        YE stars of heav'n, what mind can trace
                        Your mist-enshrouded history?
                        What lore is yours, fair sons of space,
                        Which to our thought is mystery!
                    
                    
                        Eternal orbs, what reckon ye
                        Of Time and all her brood of men,
                        Who vaunt themselves, -and what are we
                        But sparks that gleam and fade again!
                    
                    
                        A while ago we were as dead;
                        To-day we live in pleasure's smile;
                        To-morrow shall the breath be sped
                        That nourished us a little while.
                    
                    
                        Our life is as meteor's gleam
                        That vanishes into the night;
                        It is a moment's happy dream,
                        Which comes, alas! to take its flight.
                    
                    
                        But what to you are life and death!
                        What care ye for the things of time,
                        Ye beings of eternal breath,
                        Proud dwellers in th' eternal clime?
                    
                
                
                
                    THE TRAGEDY.
                    
                        HE gave the world, in darkness pent,
                        The boon of His surpassing light;
                        The world found healing in its beams,
                        But turned Him out into the night.
                    
                    
                        He gave the world His heart of hearts,
                        And bore the burden of its woe;
                        The world gave Him the knotted scourge,
                        The cruel rod's remorseless blow.
                    
                    
                        He gave the world the hope of heav'n,
                        And to its gate the wand'rers led;
                        The thankless world could out find room
                        Where He might lay His weary head.
                    
                    
                        He gave the world the crown of life,
                        His life accounting but as dross;
                        The world received the matchless gift,
                        And gave to Him-the martyrs cross!
                    
                
                
                
                    THE REMORSE OF DAVID.
                    
                        DID some one call me king,--David, the king?
                        The lips spake false that spake thus for my ear.
                        King over men, but of his lust the slave!
                        Ill fares the throne on such foundation built.
                        Who ruleth self hath naught wherefrom to fear;
                        Who holdeth not the reins to appetite,
                        Hath naught to guide save his wild, lustful will.
                        A charioteer to fiery steeds attached.
                        Death yawns for such, though life seems long to bless.
                    
                    
                         O fatal night, in which the thought was born
                        Bearing in turn the deed that bound my soul
                        To this deep hell! No fires with this compare,-
                        The pangs of conscience wronged, the will of God defied.
                        I know not now the peace that reigned within
                        When I, a lad on these Judean hills
                        Led tender flocks by gently flowing streams,
                        Through pastures green, all innocent of wrong.
                    
                    
                        Sweet hours of youth, come ye but once again
                        To still this spirit groaning in its chains,
                        Where it, alas! must bide for evermore,-
                        Except one come, in strength of purity,
                        And break these galling bonds, and set me free.
                    
                    
                    
                        My harp, once as my love, hangs idle now;
                        For music bideth not in souls depraved.
                        She dwelleth but on high, where God abides,-
                        And if she comes to earth, she visits men
                        In holiness secure. O wretched fate,
                        To be bereft of that we once adored
                        As never womankindI Forget the past,
                        Beloved Music, be thou still my friend,
                        As when of old in grassy fields you walked with me,
                        And doubted not my heart was true.
                        You pointed out the stars and bade me sing
                        Their matchless harmonies; nor did I halt,
                        But, tuning harp to voice, I sang to Him,
                        And felt the heav'ns descend and lift me far
                        Beyond Judean hills to Jahweh's throne.
                    
                    
                        Alas my power is gone, my harp is still,
                        And evermore shall be; for who would deign
                        To touch those magic strings with hands defiled!
                    
                    
                        Again the voices call, "King
                            David,-King!"
                        No more a king, but slave, a self-bound slave!
                        Who calls? Let him come in but call not, "King!"
                    
                
                
                
                    MY AIM.
                    
                        THIS be my aim:
                        To keep my feet in paths secure,
                        My mind from a defilement pure,
                        My heart aglow with sympathy
                        For those less fortunate than I
                        In this world's goods.
                    
                    
                        Lord, give me grace
                        To use my eyes to know Thy beauty;
                        My ears, to hear the call of duty;
                        My lips, to praise Thee night and morning;
                        My hands, to serve, no small task scorning,
                        Unto me given.
                    
                
                
                    A THEOLOGY.
                    
                        THE God who from primeval gloom
                        Brought forth the starry skies,
                        Who bade the chaos-discords yield
                        To cosmic harmonies,
                        From death did my poor spirit raise,
                        And gave my heart a song of praise.
                    
                    
                        He who from dust brought nations forth,
                        And gave to each a soul,
                        Who leads them by unerring hand,
                        Each to its destined goal,
                        Doth unto me grant life and light
                        And guide in ways of truth and light.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE STAR AND THE CHRIST.
                    
                        THE wondrous star
                        That led the wand'ring wise men from afar
                        Brought them, O Christ, to kneel at Thy dear feet,
                        And find there joy complete.
                    
                    
                        And Thou, a Light,
                        Didst shine athwart the darkness of our night,
                        To lead fom paths our erring feet had trod
                        Into the ways of God.
                    
                
                
                     ABRAM.
                    
                        FROM homeland went he forth, with faith his guide,
                        Unto an unknown land, assured that He
                        Who brought him out, in sweet security
                        Would grant him rest beyond far Jordan's tide.
                    
                    
                        O Father of us all. give to each soul
                        A faith that dares leave all that men count dear,
                        To travel unknown ways without a fear,
                        Assured Thy hand shall guide to worthy goal.
                    
                
                
                    THE GLORY OF LINCOLN.
                    
                        WHO builds of stone a shrine to bear his name,
                        Shall be forgot when months and years have flown;
                        Who writes his name upon the scroll of fame,
                        The centuries shell find to men unknown;
                        But who for fellow men endured the shame,
                        Shall have eternal glory for his own.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE TWO VOICES.
                    
                        TO what fit end this ceaseless round of toil.
                        The racing care and turmoil of the day,
                        Hopes that elude, ideals that pass away,
                        Rewards which with possession spoil?
                        Each morn the sun on some new hope doth rise;
                        Each eve some hope lies dead 'neath darkling skies.
                    
                    
                        Dost thou essay to tell the ways of God,
                        To justify the means His love employs?
                        Art thou informed how worlds are held in poise?
                        The blade of grass, -how springs it from the sod?
                        If thou art blind to see how those things be,
                        Wouldst thou presume to know His way with thee?
                    
                
                
                    TRUE GREATNESS.
                    
                        DELAY not, foolish one, till larger tasks be thine;
                        The fleet hours pass, while thou dost thy small lot
                            repine.
                        All tasks ase great, performed as unto God the giver.
                        Thy small task unperformed, the large thou wilt find
                            never.
                    
                    
                        Perfoming every task with all the strength He giveth,-
                        In this true greatness lies; and that soul greatly liveth
                        Who thus in meekness serves, nor seeks the goal unduly.
                        Serve well, and thou art great; with God thou workest
                            truly.
                    
                    
                    
                        Does thy life seem dear
                        Hark the bugle, hear!
                        Fight till falls the night.
                    
                
                
                    THE TRUE WORSHIPPER.
                    
                        NOT he who utters lip-born prayers,
                        Not he who mouths a time-worn creed,
                        But he who Christ's meek spirit shares
                        And day by day the Christ-cross bears,
                        Doth worship God indeed.
                    
                
                
                
                    TWO KINGS.
                    
                        A king of peerless fame was he;
                        His minions, over land and sea,
                        Earth's treasures sought;
                        But he whom men called strong and brave,
                        To pride and passion was a slave
                        In deed and thought.
                    
                    
                        A peasant, poor, unknown to fame,
                        Wrought daily at his bench; but shame
                        With men he found;
                        Yet, strong of soul, he gave no heed,
                        But labored for his children's need,
                        A king uncrowned.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE CHILDREN OF ESAU.
                    
                        FROM the dreamless sleep of the well-fed
                        They rise at the morning-time.
                        They feel no joy at the glory of the sunrise,
                        They see no heaven reflected in the drop of dew;
                        They hear no God clear-speaking to the heart of man
                        In the freshly-blown rose.
                        What care they to be called the "sons of God,"
                        If the appetite of sense is satisfied?
                        What care they for Bethel dreams,
                        If only the forests are full of venison?
                        What profits it to think?
                        Grows not the body lean with much thinking?
                        Why speculate on future years?
                        May not life's present good be lost in speculation?
                        This is the end of life: To eat, to drink, to sleep,
                        To feel no gnawing of the appetite;
                        To strive not after things far distant.
                        Soon cometh death? Much more then must we haste
                        To find the good this world can give.
                        Spirit? The word fall dead upon their ears.
                        Flesh, let the flesh be satisfied!
                    
                
                
                
                    INFLUENCE.
                    
                        THE tiniest streamlet seeks the larger river,
                        The river swells the far-extending sea,
                        The sea rolls on throughout the vast forever;
                        Each deed is wrought for all eternity.
                    
                
                
                    THOUGHTS AND DEEDS.
                    
                        SAY not, "It matters not what men may think,
                        But 'tis the deed avails." As flower to
                            seed
                        Is deed to thought; and as the seed foretells
                        Hemlock or rose, thoughts tell the coming deed.
                    
                
                
                    TRUE SERVICE.
                    
                        TRUE service knows nor great, nor small;
                        Who plants a tree, and plants it unto God,
                        Hath done full well, nor yields to him
                        Who o'er an empire sways the kingly rod.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE WORLD'S VERDICT.
                    
                        ONE sent out his ships to earth's farthest shores,
                        And brought to his coffers the Orient' stores;
                        The wild desert sands
                        Became gold in his hands;
                        And the world called him genis - and wondered.
                    
                    
                        One sought out the secrets of planet and star;
                        He revelled in problems of granite and spar;
                        He thirsted to know
                        All the earth could bestow;
                        And the world called him scholar - and praised him.
                    
                    
                        One looked on a suffering, down-trodden race;
                        He wept as he gazed upon each troubled face;
                        He heeded their plea,
                        And he set their hands free;
                        And the world called him brother - and loved him.
                    
                
                
                    TO THE SPIRIT OF MUSIC.
                    
                        SPIRIT of Music, make me thy lyre;
                        Breathe over me, and in my heart inspire
                        Songs that know not of the swift flight of years, --
                        Songs of rejoicing, songs born of tears.
                        Spirit of Music, all hail to thee,
                        Fill all the earth till no discord shall be.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE PRAYER OF THE SOUL.
                    
                        HUNGRY of soul for bread to satisfy,
                        Fed through the years with husks of vanity,
                        My body faint, drooping my weary head,-
                        Hungry of soul, I come to Thee for Bread.
                    
                    
                        Thirsty of soul for living waters pure,
                        Far from the spring, I scarce my life endure;
                        My throat all parched, and gone my power to sing, -
                        Thirsty of soul, I come to seek Thy Spring.
                    
                    
                        Darkened in soul, in world of darkness pent,
                        Gone sun and star from out my firmament,
                        Groping as blind, all things bring me affright;
                        Darkened in soul, I come to Thee for Light.
                    
                    
                        Weary in soul of all the world's hard strife,
                        Sick of the wrong that ever fills my life,
                        Sated with self and with my selfish quest,-
                        Weary in soul, I come to Thee for Rest.
                    
                
                
                
                    TO THE DISCOURAGED.
                    
                        NOT in the tombs of bygone years
                        Live thou thy life,
                        Nor in the mists of sorrow's tears
                        Nurse thou thy grief.
                        The past was full of wrong, say you?
                        Make, then, to-day
                        As true as thou canst make it true;
                        Give not for aye.
                    
                    
                        Let not the wrongs the past years show
                        Enchain thy soul;
                        On to the heav'n thy head would know,
                        Thy destined goal!
                        Forget the past; keep thou thine eyes
                        On Hope's fair star,
                        Which, when the blue fades hom the skies,
                        Shines still afar.
                    
                
                
                    BIOPSIS.
                    
                        A babe's death-strugglings into life;
                        A child's brief joy of fairyland;
                        A youth' fair dream before the strife
                        That waits his oft reluctant hand;
                        A man' soul quest 'neath skies o'ercast;
                        A sire's uncertain steps, and slow;
                        A fleeting breath - and that is past,
                        Which was called life a while ago.
                    
                
                
                
                    SONG OF THE LOCOMOTIVE.
                    
                        OVER the pairies I speed ever faster,
                        Drunk with the joy of my flight;
                        Earth's proudest heights I ride as their master;
                        Fearless, I plunge through the night;
                        Where the deep-canyon stream roars through the mountains,
                        Where fly the clouds far above,
                        Where lies the desert, where sing the fountains,--
                        Everywhere love I to rove.
                    
                    
                        Onward my buden of joy and of sorrow
                        Over the prairies I bear,
                        Some with the hope of a happy to-morrow,
                        Some in the throes of despair;
                        Lovers l carry in bliss born of heaven,
                        Children in death's chill embrace,--
                        Heavy the burden I labor to carry
                        In my unwearying race.
                    
                    
                        Sacred the mission by God to me given,
                        Mission of comfort and light
                        With death and darkness my spirit hath striven,
                        lgnorance yields to my might.
                        Cities arise where the forest once flourished,
                        Temples and palaces fair,-
                        Blessings, abound where the people are nourished
                        From the rich bounty I bear.
                    
                    
                    
                        Terror of Famine falls low at my coming,
                        Poverty flees at my word,
                        War starves and dies, for victims far roaming,
                        Ploughshare replaces the sword;
                        Peoples once scattered o'er mountain and prairie
                        Join in one chorus of praise,-
                        Great is the burden God gives me to carry
                        On through the increasing days.
                    
                
                
                    SEA-SONG OF AN IDEALIST.
                    
                        A wide, wild sea,
                        And a full sail free,
                        And a wind for the waiting west!
                        For no harbor light,
                        Shining through the night,
                        Can allure me from my quest.
                    
                    
                        For there, afar,
                        Gleams a wondrous star,
                        And it beckons o'er the wave;
                        'Mid the stormy blast
                        Still I follow fast,
                        Though I find a sailor's grave.
                    
                    
                        For well I know,
                        Though the storms may blow,
                        That a haven waits for me,
                        'Neath that matchless star,
                        In a land afar,
                        Past the wild and wind-swept sea.
                    
                
                
                
                    THREE SONNETS.(Dedicated to E. W.)
                    
                        I.
                        
                            MY love for thee no words can e'er express;
                            I say "I love thee" and "I long for
                                thee;"
                            But all in vain I speak.. Thou art to me
                            My sun, my world, thou queen of tenderness.
                            From sleep I wake to greet each day new-born
                            With visions but of thee, my only Love;
                            And nightly in each glowing star above
                            Thy soul shines forth to cheer me until morn.
                            I would not say I lived before we met;
                            I breathed, and thought it life, for unto me
                            There had not come love's rich maturity; -
                            But all those empty years I would forget.
                            How I love thee, my tongue is dumb to tell;
                            That I love thee- that knowest thou full well.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        II.
                        
                            BEFORE you came, the stars shone not full bright,
                            But dimly, as by clouds of sorrow veiled;
                            And e'en by day the sun's vast glory failed;
                            As blind, I wandered in abiding night.
                            Glad spring, which once could blighted hopes renew,
                            Left my dead heart in winter's dark despair;
                            The fairest roses seemed to me less fair
                            Than mournful cypress or regretful rue.
                            Joy failed me then, and Sorrow, at my side,
                            Chanted her dirge of hopelessness to me.
                            Death beckoned oft, and vowed my friend to be,
                            And oft I turned my steps with her to bide.
                            But since you came, Sweetheart, I need no sun,
                            No start, no spring,- just you, till life is done.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        III.
                        
                            WHO would have thought that thou couldst so endear
                            Thy heart to mine, Sweetheart, that without thee
                            I nothing do, or think? For now I see
                            Not with mine eyes but thine; thou art so near
                            In thought to me. How changed for me my life!
                            A year ago I planned for self alone;
                            For self was then my world; a heart of stone
                            Was mine. I plunged into the world' hard strife
                            With one thought, Victory! Then pride urged on.
                            I strove to win fame's laurel for my brow,
                            That I might hear the world applaud. But now
                            'Tis changed. Since love came with its glory dawn,
                            I think, I plan, I strive all, all for thee,
                            God's gift the beat of all the gifts to be.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    TO HELEN.
                    
                        APRIL bore you, Helen dear,-
                        Fickle month of all the year;
                        Now like sunshine is your face,
                        Soon to yield with easy grace
                        To the storm.
                        April bore you, Helen, dear,-
                        Fickle month of all the year!
                    
                    
                        April bore you, fickle one,
                        With your moods of rain and sun;
                        Still would not change your ways,
                        For I Iove those April days,
                        And so, you.
                        April bore you, fickle one,
                        With your moods of rain and sun!
                    
                
                
                    BEREAVEMENT. (C. B. K. to I. H. K.)
                    
                        THE roses are many and fair
                        In the arbor overhead;
                        But sigh 'mid their beauty rare,
                        For the rose I loved is dead.
                    
                    
                        The stars are many and bright
                        Which glow in the heaven's vast;
                        Yet sigh 'neath their blazing light,
                        For the star I loved has passed.
                    
                
                
                
                    OF YOU.
                    
                        THERE'S a song in my heart singing,
                        And it sings the whole day through;
                        It is thundered fom the ocean,
                        It is whispered from the dew;
                        And the song in my heart singing
                        Is a song of you-of you.
                    
                    
                        There's a dream to my heart coming,
                        And it comes the whole night through;
                        It is woven of the starlight
                        And the sky's unfathomed blue;
                        And the dream to my heart coming
                        Is a dream of you-of you.
                    
                    
                        There's a prayer in my heart rising,
                        Rising all the long year through,
                        In the sleeping-time of winter,
                        And when spring is budding new;
                        And the prayer in my heart rising
                        Is a prayer of you--of you.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE DEATH OF SUMMER.
                    
                        NOW doth Summer's streaming silver
                        Yield to Autumn's haze of gold;
                        Summer hours like sheep are driven
                        Back again to Nature's fold.
                        Dimmer grows the old year's vision,
                        Shortened is his vital breath;
                        All the earth, with hues funereal,
                        Tells of queenly Summer's death.
                        Lo, the shadows longer fall,
                        And a hush is over all.
                    
                    
                        From her brimming horn of plenty
                        Autumn soon shall pour her hoard;,
                        Then in cellars, ready waiting,
                        All with gladness shall be stored,
                        There to wait the hungry winter.
                        When the chilling winds shall blow,
                        And the kettle's cheery singing
                        Shall drive back the ice and snow.
                        Then to Summer we shall bring
                        Grateful hearts' glad offering.
                    
                
                
                
                    THREE LULLABIES.*Dedicated to my sister, Caroline Clark
                        Gerhart.
                    
                        I.
                        
                            ROCK-A-BYE, babe, in your soft, cozy nest,
                            Rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye;
                            Lulled by the mother-bird in from her quest,
                            Rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye;
                            What though the night wind blow fierce to affright?
                            Harm cannot come to my darling to-night; so
                            Rock-a-bye, babe, in your soft, cozy nest,
                            Rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye!
                        
                        
                            Rock-a-bye, babe. in your beautiful dream,
                            Rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye;
                            Visit the fairies of Slumberland Green,
                            Rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye;
                            What though the teardrops may fill mother's eyes?
                            Baby is happy, afloat in the skies; so
                            Rock-a-bye, babe, in your beautiful dream,
                            Rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye!
                        
                        *(Set to Music.)
                    
                    
                    
                        II.
                        
                            SLEEP, sleep,
                            As the shadows creep
                            Out from the night at the close of day.
                            Sleep, sleep,
                            In slumber deep;
                            Gone is the light and the time for play.
                            Sleep, sleep,
                            Little one, sleep.
                        
                        
                            Rest, rest,
                            In your slumber nest;
                            Naught shall befall you, though dark the night.
                            Rest rest,
                            To my heart close pressed;
                            Slumber, my babe, until morning light.
                            Rest rest,
                            Little one, rest.
                        
                        
                            Dream, dream;
                            See, the first faint gleam
                            Pierces the darkness which folds the earth!
                            Dream, dream,
                            Till a bright sunbeam
                            Wakens you, babe, at the new day's birth.
                            Dream, dream,
                            Little one, dream.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        Ill.
                        
                            SUNBEAMS gwine to bed, Sun-man hidin' his head,
                            Trees softly sighin', birds home a
                                flyin',
                            'Bove my darlin's bed;
                            Day am closin' his eyes, Moon-man gwine to rise,
                            Bees quit de hummin', sleepy mist am comin'
                            O' my darlin's eyes. So,
                        
                        
                            Refrain:
                            Shut tight dose winkin' blikin' eyes,
                            Darlin', my chile,
                            While you'se to happy dreamlan' flies,
                            O' many a mile;
                            Angels, wid crowns and silver wings,
                            Come take you dere;
                            Soon you come a flyin' back again, so
                            Shut you tight dose winkin', blinkin'
                                eyes.
                        
                        
                            Screech owls 'gin to peek, moth play
                                hide-an'-go-seek;
                            Whippoorwill am singin' on its way a-wingin',
                            Sleep, my darlin', sleep;
                            Firefly flickers an' gleams, tries to beat de bright
                                moonbeams;
                            Cricket am a-chirpin', bow and fiddle jerkin',
                            While my darlin' dreams. So,
                        
                        [Refrain.]
                    
                
                
                
                    TO ROBERT BURNS.
                    
                        SINGER sweet of Scotia's isle,
                        Bard of field and plough,
                        Destiny bade Nature smile
                        On thy noble brow.
                    
                    
                        Poet of the world thou art,
                        All men honor thee,
                        Nestling close to Nature's heart
                        In thy minstrelsy.
                    
                    
                        Artless are old Nature's ways,
                        Craft she proudly spurns;
                        Artless are thine heart-born lays,
                        Ploughman Robert Burns.
                    
                    
                        Lover wert thou, pouring forth
                        From thy manly breast
                        Songs which reached the bounds of earth
                        Ere they came to rest.
                    
                    
                        Prophet of a day thou art
                        When all non shall bide,
                        Hand in hand and heart to heart,
                        Brothers far and wide. 
                    
                
            
        
    
