
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Pfrimmer, Will W. (Will Wood), 1856-1935.. The legend of Grape Island and other poems. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA9489
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        
		

			





			
				
					THE LEGEND OF GRAPE ISLAND AND OTHER POEMS
				


				BY
					WILL W. PFRIMMER






				Printed By The Times-Democrat,
					Watseka, Illinois.
				
			


			









			
				VERSO
				Copyrighted 1907 By WILL W. PFRIMMER.
			






			






			
				DEDICATION
				TO MY WIFE.
			



			





			
				EDITION
				FIRST EDITION.

			



			






			
				CONTENTS.
				
					PAGE



					
						Proem
						9
						
					


					
						TENT TALES
						11
						
						
							
								The Old Trapper's Story
								13
								
							
							
								The Boat Song
								16 
								
							
							
								Morning on the Marsh
								17
								
							
							
								Zeke Hardy's Farewell
								17
								
							
							
								Old Richard
								18
								
							
							
								Upon The Stream
								20
								
							
							
								In Camp
								21
								
							
							
								Old Richard's story
								23
								
							
							
								The Dreamer
								25
								
							
							
								The Poet's Lament
								26
								
							
							
								The Awakening
								28
								
							
							
								The Bee Hunt
								29
								
							
							
								The Return
								31
								
							
							
								Rhe Major's Story
								32
								
							
							
								Rainy Day in Camp
								37
								
							
							
								The Legend of Gappe Island
								39
								
							
						
					


					
						A Confession
						64
						
					
					
						Compensation
						65
						
					
					
						The Old Settler's Story
						67
						
					
					
						The Old Man Talks
						71
						
					
					
						A Common Place Story
						73
						
					
					
						Sam
						75
						
					
					
						The Old Feather Bed
						78
						
					
					
						Now As Good As Any Time
						80
						
					
					
						Mid Summer
						83
						
					





					



					
						In The Woods At Night
						84
						
					
					
						Wanted, Men
						86
						
					
					
						Oh I Wish It Were Christmas All The Year 
						88
						
					
					
						Life's Aim
						90
						
					
					
						The Country Boy
						91
						
					
					
						The Legend Of The Lady Slipper
						93
						
					
					
						Marg 
						96
						
					
					
						The New Education 
						100
						
					
					
						The Little Frame School House
						102
						
					
					
						The Man From Terre Haute 
						104
						
					
					
						The Teacher's Soliloquy 
						106
						
					
					
						Caleb Shaw 
						107
						
					
					
						Honest Praise
						110
						
					
					
						Our Dreams Grow Sweeter
						111
						
					
					
						My Jolly Neighbor
						112
						
					
					
						A Tribute to The Old Year
						114
						
					
					
						Down Aroun' The Depo'
						115
						
					
					
						Reserved Opinions 
						117
						
					
					
						Fishin' 
						120
						
					
					
						In Memoriam 
						123
						
					
					
						A Ramble
						125
						
					
					
						On The Death of McKinley
						126
						
					
					
						Farmer John and Farmer Ned 
						127
						
					
					
						Warsaw 
						128
						
					
					
						John Carr of Anderson
						130
						
					
					
						The Unanswerable 
						132
						
					
					
						As I Wuz Goin' to Say 
						134
						
					
					
						Ashes 
						137
						
					
					
						My Neighbor
						136
						
					
					
						The Pillar of The Constitution 
						140
						
					
					
						A Parting Thought 
						141
						
					
				

			
			
		




		


			
				THE LEGEND OF GRAPE ISLAND AND OTHER POEMS
				
					PROEM.


					
						Oftimes the simplest things will yield
						The sweetest verse; the wood, the field,
						The brooklet, hazel-hedged, that creeps
						Through wild wood ways or smiling sleeps
						Within the dingle, lily-strewn,
						The summer stars, the harvest moon,
						The swallows' twit'ring'round the barn,
						The loons lone cry from dismal tarn,
						The cattle standing in the stream,
						May each one prove a fitting theme
						From which the poet weaves and weaves
						A witchery of words that leaves
						Within the heart a magic spell.
						We feel and yet we cannot tell
						From whence the mystic power springs,
						But oft a pleasing couplet clings,
						And, running riot through the brain,
						We cull it o'er and o'er again,
						And something in the thought or rhyme
						Gives pleasure for all aftertime.
					


					
						And he who scorns the poets art
						And counts his work a useless part
						Misses the melodies of life;
						He reads the prose and joins the strife,


						


						And, may be useful to his kind,
						But many a song that rests the mind
						And cheers the heart, he does not hear;
						And many a rainbow will appear,
						And many a golden sunset show
						A promise he may never know.
					

					
						And if my lines, though crude, contain
						One simple soulful sweet refrain
						Which brings one moment of delight
						To some poor weary wayworn wight
						My efforts have not been in vain.
					

				
				


				
					TENT TALES.
						(Prelude.)
					
						A dreary evening of an autumn day,
						A moan among the trees, a sky of gray,
						A tangled flight of crows, a wind blown bird,
						Beyond the misty marsh a huddled herd,
						A broad brown marsh where russet rushes sway
						In breast high waves with here and there a spray
						Of wild rice tossed above them in the wind,
						A wilderness before, a waste behind,
						A well worn tent beside a flag fenced pond,
						A thicket growth of birch, and just beyond
						The restless river tossing in its bed,
						Such was the picture which about us spread.
						We; who had started at the early dawn:
						And hopefully all day had traveled on
						Across unfriendly tracts of barren land,
						Of tangled marsh and slopes of yielding sand;
						And through this never ending sameness came;
						Found here beside the sullen stream the same
						Monotony of marsh and sand and plain,
						Night coming on, mist turning into rain,
						No boat in sight, no boatman to be seen,
						Nor any shelter howe'er poor and mean,
						Save that lone tent beside the little pond.
						But there are none more ready to respond
						In time of need, more quick to see distress,
						And with unconscious openhandedness
						Divide their all, though little it may be,
						Than these same men, who lead the lonely, free,

						

						Unselfish life of dwellers in the wood.
						Our wishes known, our wants once understood,
						A heartier welcome to wayfaring men
						Was never given than was given then;
						And, op'ning wide his tent, without ado,
						Our new found friend cameforth and built anew
						His smold'ring camp fire till its ruddy light
						Made cheery all within, drove back the night
						Beyond the birch tree thicket, and its gleam
						Slipped through the trees and kissed the troubled stream.
						Then from his simple store he brought us food,
						A steaming pot of fragrant coffee brewed,
						And then with hearty " Help yourselves" he bid
						Us eat; and never yet at banquet did
						More willing guests partake of better fare
						Nor host supply each want with kindlier care.
						The supper done, our host spread wide a couch
						Of dry marsh-grass; passed his tobacco pouch;
						And lying there in languorous restfullness,
						He who has never known could never guess
						What sweet abandonment upon us stole,
						How much contentment from each glowing bowl
						And camp fire's friendly light was gathered there,
						And all the day's discomforts otherwhere.
					

					
						Our host, his kindly interest unconcealed,
						Plied us with questions; and in turn revealed,
						In his unlettered way, this simple tale;
						And yet, retold, words somehow seem to fail
						To carry with them that sad undertone
						Which ran beneath a pathos all his own;
						Nor from his words and manner could we trace
						He deemed the story more than commonplace.
					


					
				


				
					THE OLD TRAPPER'S STORY.



					
						"Folks call me 'Ole Zeke Hardy,' an' I 'low
						I can't deny it, fer its too late now.
						There wuz a time, I 'spose, if I had tried
						I might been Mr. Hardy 'fore I died;
						But what might been has passed an' gone, an' I
						Don't worry 'bout it. Still I don't deny
						That sometimes when the loud winds fret the trees,
						An' way out on the marshes some o' these
						Here loon birds call, an' hoot owls answer back,
						An' mist clouds like race hosses on the track
						Go troopin' up the bayou as they do
						On nights like this, 1 can't help gettin' blue.
					

					
						I fall to sorto' dreamin' like, an' go
						On the back track fer thirty yers or so.
						Ah! I was young an' hearty then an' strong;
						The days were longer; an' the yers as long
						As two o' them seem now; an' in our prime
						A good bit more'n half is summer time.
						I haven't allus lived as I do now;
						My younger days wuz spent behind the plow;
						I didn't take to schoolin'; but at work,
						You may'nt believe it, but I weren't no shirk.
					

					
						I married kind o' arly, fer you see,
						We allus loved each other, wife an' me.
						When we wuz little shavers folks 'ud say,
						'Y, 'aint you married yet?' Er maybe they
						'Ud call us little lovers, an' we two
						Jest somehow never doubted it 'uz true
					

					

					
						Growed up together, married, settled down
						Upon a little truck patch close to town.
						A year o' happiness, then come the noise
						O' drums an' fifes, an' nearly all the boys
						Went off to war, but I still stayed behind,
						But somehow I weren't easy in my mind.
						I got to feelin' sneakin' like an' mean.
						I s'pose that Mary all along had seen
						That somethin' troubled me an' guessed it right;
						Fer anyhow she come to me one night
						When our little one wuz three weeks old,
						An' put her arm around my neck, an' cold
						White cheek down close to mine an' whispered low,
						'Zeke, my Zeke, you get ready now an' go.'
						An' so I went, an' staid till it uz done;
						An', coward though I wuz, I couldn't run.
						When I got shaky I could hear her say
						In teary whispers, 'Zeke, my Zeke, you stay.'
						We tuck Atlanta, started for the sea,
						An' then it wuz my luck went back on me.
						No letters come; but none got letters then;
						But after weeks an' weeks I saw the men
						Get letters from their folks, an' I got none,
						Yet hungry as a starvin' man fer one.
						So things went on. At last I got a note
						A preacher sent, an' this is what he wrote,
						That Mrs. Hardy and the child were dead.
						--His other talk I think I never read.--
						There wuzn't nothin' left to fight fer now.
						"The war wuz over,' folks said. Anyhow,
						It wuz fer me. The boys all shoutin' glad
						At thoughts o' gettin' home most' set me mad,
						So I slipped out and an' didn't go on through
						To Washington to 'tend the big review.
					

					

					
						An' so I'm Ole Zeke Hardy, an' I spose
						The record uv our reg'ment down there shows
						That I deserted, but, Sirs, I don't care.
						There is a heaven, an' my Mary's there;
						An' she's as proud o' what I done, no doubt,
						As if I'd waited to be mustered out."
					


					
						The old man paused, put by his pipe, and said,
						"But you are tired. Let us all to bed."
						Less threat'ning and less sullen now the sky;
						The wind had sobbed its anger to a sigh;
						And here and there a star peeped through a rift;
						And lapped the rhythmic river on the drift
						A soothing lullaby with charms to press
						The eyelids down to sweet forgetfulness.
					


					
						How oft it happens when the day goes wrong,
						When mid our cares there seems no place for song,
						Worn out, we sink to slumber; and the light
						Of morn shows we were wrong, the world was right.
					


					
						And thus it was; while still the river lay
						Within the shadows of the morning gray,
						There came the sound of voices, nearer still,
						From somewhere up the stream; but not until,
						Rounding a bend, their boats came into view
						Could we discern what now we saw was true.
						Our friends were coming! And then loud and long
						We joined them in the chorus of their song.
					

					
				

				
					THE BOAT SONG.



					
						Then let us away at the break of day
						Ere the east begins to glow,
						Ere the wraith of the stream awakes from her dream
						In the moss beds down below.
						Then it's ho, boys! ho, boys! row!
						It's bend to the oar, there is sport in store,
						Then it's row, boys! row, boys, row!
					

					
						Where the ferns grow rank on the mossy bank,
						Where the reeds and rushes grow,
						Where the willows sweep over waters deep
						And lilies are white as snow.
						Then it's ho, boys! ho, boys! row!
						It's bend to the oar there is sport in store,
						Then it's row, boys! row, boys! row!
					

					
						Where the mallards call from the wild rice tall
						To their fellows passing by,
						And the shy wood drake from the tangled brake
						Pipes his shrill and plaintive cry.
						Then it's ho, boys! ho, boys! row!
						It's bend to the oar, there is sport in store,
						Then it's row, boys! row, boys! row!
					



					
				

				
					MORNING ON THE MARSH.



					
						How changed to us the world since yesterday!
						A silent, shimmering sea the great marsh lay.
						Its far off margin, Indian summer hazed,
						And scattered here and there the cattle grazed
						Contentedly upon the purple plain.
						The world awakened into life again.
						Far off, the crows cawed lustily; while near
						From rush and reed top came the vibrant, clear
						And liquid notes, in desultory way,
						Of little red-winged blackbirds; and the jay
						Less querulously voiced his discontent;
						The autumn sun its yellow lances sent
						Through copse and thicket, till its each midge and mote
						And gossimer and thistle down afloat
						Grew lambent in the pulseless morning air;
						And all pervading peacefulness was there.
					
				

				
					 ZEKE HARDY'S FAREWELL.


					
						Such was the morning when we bid adieu
						To him, who in the time of need was true.
						Strongly we urged in more substantial way
						Than wordy thanks his kindness to repay,
						But all in vain. The old man shook his head.
						Waving aside the proffered coins he said,

						

						"Who comes to Old Zeke Hardy's tent
						On purpose or by accident
						Finds welcome, be it night or day;
						And he has nothing here to pay.
						I live alone, my wants are few.
						The little I have done for you
						Is hardly worth a price; and yet,
						If still you feel yourselves in debt,
						Wait till you find some one in need,
						Some hungry fellow you can feed.
						Then give to him what I might claim;
						An' do it in Zeke Hardy's name."
					
				


				
					 OLD RICHARD.


					
						Then "all aboard!" we heard Old Richard call,
						Old Richard, gaunt and straight and tall,
						Of whom his neighbors, one and all,
						Avow there can be no mistake,
						That good dame nature tried to make
						A thoroughly contented man,
						And Nature always fills her plan.
						And there are those who will declare,
						And some profane will even swear,
						"'That Richard does not like to work,
						That he is something of a shirk."
						But I cannot subscribe to this.
						'Tis slander born of prejudice,
						For I have known him many a year,
						And what to others may appear
						As laziness has seemed to me
						A genuine phylosophy.

						

						You say he will not work. What then?
						Well, are there not ten thousand men
						Within a short day's journey who
						Are clam'ring for his part to do?
						But in its way, Old Richard's name
						Has something more than local fame.
						No better hand at stalking deer,
						At casting troll, or throwing spear,
						At following hounds when at full cry,
						Or laden bees which homeward fly.
						In every kind of hunt or chase,
						Old Richard takes no second place.
					


					
						Well versed is he in nature's lore.
						Her hidden paths he can explore
						With confident and careless tread,
						And many a sign by him is read,
						And many a beauty he can see
						Which lies concealed from you and me.
						Here he is king, here let him reign,
						To make him else were all in vain.
						A slave at either hoe or spade,
						A vassal in the marts of trade,
						And worthless he, to many eyes
						Engaged in gainful enterprise,
						And everywhere, save in the wood
						Or on the stream, misunderstood.
						And if, for sooth, he can't agree
						With your concept of industry
						Have you the right to say that he
						Has less than you of energy?
						Unbiased, how can you decide
						That it is even misapplied?
					

					

					
						I may be wrong, but when I scan
						The ultimate of nature's plan,
						So vast the view, so dim my sight
						I own I may not read aright.
						So much of wrong that seemeth good,
						So much of right misunderstood,
						So weak my reason and so poor
						My judgement, I am never sure;
						But with the passing years I find
						That I am more and more inclined
						To this belief, that Nature brings
						Into her plan all minor things,
						That somewhere in this perfect plan
						A place is made for every man,
						Some low, some high, some small, some great,
						Some slaves to fortune, some to fate,
						And he alone is free who stands
						And does with ready, steady hands
						And willing heart and purpose true
						The thing God fitted him to do.
					
				

				
					UPON THE STREAM.

					
						Now slowly drifting onward with the tide,
						Each one his own device at pleasure tried.
						Some cast their lines in careful, cautious way
						Beside the moss beds where the pickerel lay,
						Or trolled beside the swaying water grass
						Or whipped the swirls with tempting bait for bass,
						While others lay in restful indolence
						And drowsed and drifted, careless where or whence.
						Thus passing on beyond the marshes brown
						And far beyond the plain, we floated down
					

					

					
						A placid stream, which mile on mile
						Flows through a forest, deep and dense,
						Where voyagers see no house the while,
						No fields of grain, no herd, no fence
					


					
						Nor any marring marks of man
						Or man's incessant strife for gain,
						Nor any sound, save now and then
						The far off whistle of a train.
					


					
						So far away, it scarcely seems
						Upon the silence to intrude,
						Scarce wakes the dreamer from his dreams,
						Scarce mars the perfect solitude.
					

				

				
					 IN CAMP.


					
						Where gnarled and aged oak trees stand,
						Grim sentinels on either hand,
						And stretch their giant arms to spread
						A leafy curtain overhead;
						Where willows weave a wicker screen
						Along the sands which lie between
						The water and the forest shade;
						Here at the close of day we made
						Our boats secure and pitched our tent
						Beneath this forest firmament.
						Some gathered for our beds the rank
						Dry fern leaves from the river bank,


						

						While others piled the driftwood higher
						To oft renew our evening fire
						Night settled down on sable wings,
						Then woke those mystic murmurings
						That human ear can never trace
						To definite abiding place,
						Yet on the conscioushess im press
						A sense of utter loneliness.
						Behind our camp, the sombre wood,
						Forbidding and forboding, stood
						And seemed as if it might unfo'd
						Some tragedy of olden times,
						Some mystery of modern crimes,
						Or some dread secret yet untold.
					


					
						What man can say that he is free
						From every ethnic tendency;
						That in his life, no one can trace
						The superstitions of the race?
						Who never turned in fear or hope
						To read his natal horoscope ?
						No man so strong he is not bent
						Nor swayed by his environment;
						And if to-day some edict great
						Beyond the power of the state,
						Which none dare disobey or doubt,
						Would turn each pocket inside out;
						What strange assortment we would meet
						Of lucky coins and rabbit's feet !
						Somehow we cannot quite forget
						The grewsome tales, which nurses old
						To us in childhood oft retold.
						A seal upon our lives they set.
					


					

					
						But be what may the cause, each mind
						To eerie stories was inclined,
						And many a tale of tragic lore
						From local reminicent store
						And many a legend did we hear
						First told by hardy pioneer
					
				

				
					 OLD RICHARD'S STORY.

					
						Until at last Old Richard told
						How in these woods a hunter bold
						One evening late by chance had seen
						The new moon through the forest green.
						Over his left shoulder it had beamed
						And for a baleful moment gleamed.
						He knew the sign: for him the morrow
						Held disappointment, trouble, sorrow.
						The night closed in with dread and fear;
						But morning dawned so bright and clear
						Forgotten was the hapless fate
						That did for him this day await.
					

					
						While passing through a tangled glade,
						A pleasing sight his progress staid.
						In easy range, with footsteps slow,
						Came into view a milk white doe.
						Quick aim; but ere his rifle spoke
						With graceful bound to thicket broke
						The fleet albino. Then began
						A chase, the strangest ever ran ;
						Through forest paths where intertwine
						The grape and wayward trumpet vine

						

						Through swales of cat-tails. thick and tall,
						And interlacing button-ball;
						Across the marsh until its rim
						Of forest falters and grows dim;
						Across the sand dunes, one by one,
						Until the day was almost done.
						A hundred times the game he saw;
						A score of times essayed to draw
						His rifle to his shoulder, when
						The doe would bound away again,
						Till weary with his fruitless chase,
						The hunter pauses for a space.
						When lo ! stark in the evening light,
						The doe again comes into sight.
						Quick springing up the yielding slope,
						The hunter presses full of hope.
						He reaches now the sand dune's crest,
						His eager eye makes searching quest,
						But stricken speechless with surprise,
						He scarce could credit his own eyes.
						Well may he cross himself in haste!
						For here upon the lonely waste,
						Instead of a doe as white as milk,
						A maiden, clad in creamy silk,
						With perfect form and graceful mein
						And step as stately as a queen,
						With parting lips and backward look,
						She, smiling, turns toward the brook,
						Whose softly murmuring ripples flow
						Between its mossy banks below.
						Our hunter paused in fear and dread,
						One moment paused, then turned and fled,
						For in that form he well could trace
						The white doe's suppleness and grace.
					

					

					
						" Now, by my life !" young Carrol cried,
						"The coward should be crucified!
						The superstitious, brainless dolt!
						Small cause, I say, had he to bolt.
						He started out 'neath evil omen,
						Pursued a doe and found a woman,
						I count his luck as quite uncommon."
						"Young man, beware!" Old Richard said,
						"For when by witch or woman led,
						The youth too often does not know
						How far in safety he may go."
					
				

				
					THE DREAMER. 

					
						But story telling will at last grow stale,
						And camp fires dwindle when the fagots fail;
						And, warned by frequent yawns and failing light,
						Each spread his couch of fern leaves for the night.
						All save the poet. Through the evening long,
						He held aloof from story, jest and song;
						And now beside the camp fire, lying prone
						Upon the sward, he lingered all alone.
						While lying there beneath a giant oak
						He saw the sparks mount upward with the smoke,
						Dart here and there in constant eager strife,
						And read in them the symbol of his life.
						Had he not vainly tried to mount still higher?
						Within his breast an all consuming fire
						Still urged him on. Was this to be his doom,
						A moment of vain effort, then the gloom
						Of fathomless oblivion? Oppressed,
						He closed his eyes and vainly tried to rest;

						
						Arose at last and silently took boat;
						Pushed out upon the stream and let it float,
						Unguided, down the silent, darkling tide
						Until he came upon a bayou wide,
						Deep fringed with willows; pushing in between
						And through the mage of sedges, lush and green,
						Came out upon its waters, deep and still.
						From somewhere in the forest came in shrill,
						Complaining notes an owlet's lonely cry.
						The pale belated moon crept up the sky
						And lent a silvery setting to the scene.
						The soft winds sighed among the willows green.
						A great blue heron winged his cumbrous flight
						Across the vast star studded arch of night,
						A water rat, disturbed at feast or play,
						Or hungry pickerel in his rush for prey,
						Splashed noisily among the reeds; and then
						All nature seemed to sink to sleep again.
						Upon a pile of fish nets in the prow,
						Our poet lay and bared his fevered brow;
						And, to his sleeping comrads all unknown,
						Warred out his hour of weakness all alone.
					

				

				
					THE POET'S LAMENT.
					
						Oh, Poesy, with wistful eyes
						I turn from grinding care and fret
						To view again your paradise,
						Whose placid lakes and forests green
						No wayworn mortal can forget
						When once their beauty he has seen.
					


					

					
						Why must I spend my days among
						Poor mortals, all to toil foredoomed,
						Who have no songs to leave unsung?
						Shall desert portions be my lot;
						Shall thistles grow where might have bloomed
						The lily and forget-me-not?
					


					
						Oh, why did fate give me a soul
						Attuned to higher things and then
						Leave me no better than the mole
						To blindly delve my whole life through,
						Yet give a compentence to men
						With molish souls and instincts too?
					


					
						But what is this, what have I said?
						Oh, foolish heart! I know full well
						I'd rather all unsandled tread
						Through all the ages yet to come
						The burning marl of Dante's hell
						Than be forever blind and dumb!
					


					
						In sober thought my better sense
						Tells me that fate at least is just.
						In God's own way some recompense
						Has been vouchsafed for every wrong.
						Better to sing though slave I must
						Than be a lord without a song!
					


					
						And here upon the bayou broad and deep,
						At dawn Old Richard found him fast asleep.
					
				

				

				
					THE AWAKENING.


					
						A smile is on the old man's lips,
						A twinkle in his keen blue eye,
						As in the tide his blade he dips;
						And, as he passes slowly by,
					



					
						Tosses it lightly in the air
						With slant to le' the water race
						In trickling drops one moment, fair
						Upon the poet's upturned face.
					



					
						With sudden start the sleeper wakes
						And stares around in dull surprise;
						When on his drowsy ear there breaks
						Old Richard's voice. "Awake!" he cries
					



					
						"What moonstruck madness brought you here?
						What witch's charm has turned your head?
						My souls! your conscience must be clear
						If you can sleep on such a bed.
					



					
						"But come, we must not longer wait,
						The signs foretell a perfect day,
						The bees will surely come to bait,
						Then let us breakfast and away."
					

				

				

				
					THE BEE HUNT.


					
						The sun scarce tipped the tallest trees
						With faintest tinge of rosy light,
						While through the forest came a breeze
						Bathed in the coolness of the night,
					


					
						As on a winding woodland way
						In single file we went, until
						We came to where the marhes lay,
						So peaceful, purple, and so still.
					


					
						Some sought the marsh's farther side
						Where fields of plumy wild rice grow,
						For here it is the mallards hide,
						And flocks of blue wings come and go;
					


					
						But out upon the open land,
						Old Richard here his footsteps staid
						And improvised a sort of stand
						Of broken boughs and on it laid
					


					
						A piece of honey in the comb,
						A drop of something from a phial,
						A secret mixture brought from home,
						And then he waited for a while.
					


					




					
						First came a great bluebottle fly
						And then a wasp on buzzing wing,
						A big bald hornet blundered by,
						Then came a bee, poor foolish thing!
					


					
						"Alas! Alas!" the poet cried,
						"How liken unto human greed!
						The bloom of summer hath supplied
						Sufficient for thy yearly need;
					


					
						'Yet not content with ample store,
						Thou bravest still the autumn wind,
						That thou mayest gather more and more.
						Thou art no better than my kind.
					


					
						"If thou didst know yon grizzled knave
						Had placed for thee this honied snare
						Wouldst thou with such imprudence brave
						The danger that is lurking there?
					


					
						"Nor am I wiser far than thee;
						My luck too often proves mischance;
						I cannnot read what is to be,
						And fate for both is ignorance."
					


					
						The poet stood in mute surprise:
						For lo! the bee was out of sight,
						Save to old Richard's practiced eyes,
						That watched it on its homeward flight.
					


					




					
						"A splendid line!" the old man cried;
						And straightway for the wood he makes.
						Now let who can keep by his side
						Through timbered swamp and tangled brakes.
					


					
						His searching eye without delay
						Has scanned each tree from root to top,
						But now a windfall bars his way,
						And now the river bids him stop.
					


					
						He climbs; he creeps: he crashes through;
						And like a hound that leads the pack,
						He wades the stream and starts anew
						With lagging followers farther back;
					


					
						Till deep within the forest dim,
						He stops to give a ringing shout.
						See yonder gnarled and riven limb
						Where bees are pouring in and out!
					

				

				

					 THE RETURN.

					
						To one who never yet has gone
						Through musky, dusky woods at dawn
						Or at the first faint hint of day
						Through reedy growths has found his way
						And then with hunter's zeal and zest
						The live long day made eager quest


						


						Till over marsh and wood and stream
						The sun had cast his parting beam
						And then his weary footsteps turned
						Toward where the cherry camp fire burned,
						I cannot tell with what content,
						With what supreme enjoyment
						We gathered at the evening board,
						A tired, happy, hungry horde,
						Where each one told in his own way
						The fate and fortunes of the day.
						How many mallards this one shot.
						--Three bee trees fell to Richard's lot.-- 
						How many bass another caught
						Was in dispute until he brought
						His string of beauties to the light;
						Thus winged the early hours of night,
						When gathered round the fire once more,
						The Major, full of martial lore,
						Told us this tale of Love and War.
					

				
				

					 THE MAJOR'S STORY.

					
						An unkempt country road way, leading down
						Through worn out pasture lands, now thickly set
						With sumach and with elder, turns aside
						To ramble for awhile beside a stream,
						A little babbling brook, which seems to play
						Forever in the shade, but tires at last,
						Slips from the shadows, and goes laughing by
						A tiny low roofed cottage, half concealed
						Behind tall licac bushes and a screen



						

						Of morning glory vines, which wound about
						The latticed porch and clambered to the eaves.
						Upon this road one summer afternoon,
						A youthful horeman, riding with loose rein,
						Came slowly down the hill slope to the stream.
						His garb, a uniform of faded blue,
						Was torn and disarranged; and, at his side,
						An empty scabbard dangled; and his face,
						Palid and drawn, betokened mortal pain;
						And, as he came, the snow white clover bloom
						Beneath his stirrup changed to crimson hue.
						His steed showed signs of having traveled far;
						His blood red nostrils and his heaving sides
						And foam flecked flanks told plainly he had come
						At greater speed than this slow moving pace.
						A goodly steed he was, clean limbed and strong,
						Which never yet had needed spur; but now,
						With quick intelligence he seemed to know
						His master's hand was all unfit to guide;
						And slowly, carefully, he picked his way
						Among the wheel ruts and the storm bared stones
						And came and stood at last besides the stream,
						Here waited patiently until he saw
						His stricken master safely on the sward,
						Then plunged midside into the pool and drank,
						Then came and bated grass beside the road.
						The youthful rider slaked his burning thirst
						And stanched as best he could his flowing wounds;
						And, all too weak to mount again, he wove
						His fingers in his horses mane and went
						Wi h many pauses down the winding way.
					

					
						At early dawn, from far beyond the hills
						Had come that day the sullen sounds of war,
						Which came and went like surges of the sea,


						

						Now beating up until it seemed, they soon
						Must break across the hill tops, then again
						Dying away until, by distance dimmed,
						Were scarcely audible. And all day long
						At frequent intervals, fair Winogene
						Had come and stood beside the cottage gate
						And looked with longing eyes far up the road;
						For in that storm that seemed to shake the earth
						An only brother bore a soldier's part.
						Ah ! men may boast of strength to do and dare
						And with brave courage meet as brave a foe,
						But combat such as this is idle play
						Beside weak woman, braving ou her fear.
						But as the falling sunlight fell upon
						And lighted up the margin of the wood,
						The anxious watcher saw two moving forms
						'Merge from the shadows and come slowly on.
						The grime of battle and the dusty road
						Had almost changed to gray a coat of blue;
						Small wonder then, the maiden's wistful eyes
						Beheld her brother coming. Love and fear
						Lent swiftness to her feet; but, drawing near,
						She, undecided, paused and would have fled;
						But as she turned, she cast one backward look
						And saw the stranger's hand slip from his hold
						Upon his horse's mane and saw him fall,
						A seeming lifeless corpse beside the road.
						In sweet compassion, now she turned again
						And came and knelt one moment by his side;
						And, finding life still lingered, quickly went
						And summoned to her aid a faithful slave,
						An old man, bent and seamed and gray, but strong,
						Who came and lifted in his brawny arms
						And carried gently as he would a babe



						

						The still unconscious form to his own hut
						And laid it gently on his humble bed;
						Then, with deft hands, which years had given skill,
						Removed the blood-stained garments, washed with care
						Each gaping wound, and bound them up anew,
						And pressed a little brandy to the lips.
						The trooper stirred, sighed deeply, looked about
						As one who scarce awakens from a dream,
						Took, half unconsciously, the proffered cup
						Of soothing cordial, closed his eyes and slept.
					
					
						Then came long weeks when life was at low ebb;
						And when again he 'wakened to the world,
						Beside him stood a vision beautiful.
						His feeble senses would not let him speak
						For fear the dream might vanish at his words;
						And so he lay all motionless until
						His senses wrought a certainty; and then
						He opened wide his eyes and smiling said,
						" I thought you were an angel, and in sooth,
						I am not sure you are not, even now."
						But she who stood beside him, when she saw
						From something in those eyes of hazel hue
						And something in the smile upon his lips
						That from his mind the cloud had passed away,
						Laughed merrily and said. " Ah! sir, how dull,
						How very dull you are! You have not read
						Your Bible as you should, else you would know
						Of all the angels who have yet appeared
						Upon this lowly earth, not one has worn
						The garb of woman. All, it seems, are men."
						"Well answered, my fair maid," the trooper cried,
						"But tell me truly, did we win the day ?
						And where is my good steed and where am I?
						And how, by fortune favored, am I here?"


						

						And nothing loath, the maiden answered him;
						"Ah, sir! the day was neither lost nor won.
						Your steed is safe; and you are safe, for now
						The tide of war has drifted farther south.
						You have been very ill; been sorely hurt;
						But you are better now and I am glad;
						But I must go and call good Hercules
						And tell my mother. She, too, will be glad.
						His wounds long held him prisoner in the hut.
						The cottage held him captive longer still.
						When love and duty are at odds-- ah, then!
						Alas for duty! Love will find excuse
						And weave of sophistry a web so fine
						That duty stands disarmed of argument.
						While thus the trooper lingered on in doubt,
						A southern soldier, maimed and travel worn,
						Came to the cottage door one evening late
						And begged to share its comforts till the morn.
						Welcomed and warmed and fed, he told his tale
						Of wounds and capture, prison and parole.
						'And I have traveled far today," he said.
						"For I had hoped to reach the Wolfort place."
						"And so you have, good sir," his hostess said.
						"For this is Wolfort place. The hall was burned."
						"Then Madam," cried the soldier, "I salute
						The mother of the bravest man I know."
						"My son! Oh, tell me, sir, is he alive?"
						"Aye, truly. Yes, I know he is alive.
						We fought and fell together, and for weeks
						Lay side by side, recovering from our wounds.
						And yet I fear all is not well with him.
						And shamed am I to tell it, but in truth
						A little Yankee lass, his nurse and mine,
						Has made him captive by her witchery.


						

						And yet had I been younger -- who can tell --
						For she is good, and good to look upon.
						But hold --I have her picture. You shall see
						What charms have made such havoc with his heart;"
						The mother looked and said no word but sighed.
						But Winogene exclaimed, "How sweet she is !"
						But when the trooper looked, he laughed aloud.
						" A fair exchange," he cried, then laughed again,
						'For, by my soul! this is my sister's face."
					

					
						Peace, like a benediction came at last;
						And, with the years, the anger and the hate,
						The scars and sorrows, slowly faded out.
						Two mansions face each other on the hill
						With signs of peace and plenty everywhere;
						And, sitting by the tiny cottage door,
						A sweet faced woman, wrinkled now and gray,
						Watches her grandsons, little Lee and Grant,
						And smiles to see them play at mimic war
						Among the lilac bushes in the yard.
					

				
				

					 RAINY DAY IN CAMP.


					Oh! Comrads of the hunt and chase,
					The vandal, Time, cannot efface
					The memory of a joy complete;
					
						And even now my heart throbs beat
						With quicker pulse as I renew
						In fancy those old days with you.
						But now, alas! those days are dead;
						The fields for sport are fields for bread;
					



					

					
						And naught but memories remain --
						Old memories and growing grain!
						But pleasure rare is pleasure fleet;
						And even joy, however sweet,
						May have its aftermath of care;
						And evening skies, however fair,
						May gloom with clouds of ashen gray
						And weep the slow drenched hours away.
					

					
						Ah! never shall I quite forget
						That cheerless morning, chill and wet;
						The sullen sky; the sodden wood;
						The sobbing fire, the ceaseless flood --
						But why recount such scenes as these ?
						Some days are best as memories.
						'Tis well, that mingled with my rhyme,
						I find the dust and doubt of time.
						Just how the dismal day was spent,
						Close housed within our little tent,
						I cannot tell, but I recall,
						The poet, urged by one and all
						That afternoon, a story told,
						A legend, quaint and sad and old.
					

				

				

				

					THE LEGEND OF GRAPE ISLAND.


					
						PART I.

						
							Upon this stream, some three days' journey down
							From the old portage, where the brave LaSalle
							And Tony, of the Iron Hand, first crossed
							From the St. Joe to the Kankakee,
							A little wooded isle, surrounded quite,
							By river, marsh, and bayou, may be found.
							For centuries a famous camping place,
							And to this day, the voyager often sees
							The gleam of campfires through the scanty growth
							Of oak and sassafras upon its shore.
							There was a time; when, here among the trees,
							There grew a tangled wilderness of vines.
							Some trailed upon the ground, while others climbed
							High up among the tree-tops, there to spread
							A canopy of sunless emerald;
							Here in the autumn-time was often hung
							A vintage of strange flavor, rich and rare,
							For no one in the country round about,
							Nor yet the stranger from afar, had found
							The likeness of this fruit. How came it there?
							What kindly hand had planted here the vine ?
							No one can tell, for truly no one knows;
							But 'mong the legends of this land is one
							Which I have heard; a strange pathetic tale,
							First told to me by one whose mem'ry runs
							For more than three score years into the past,
							Who had it from his grandsire older still;



							

							And I have known the story now for years.
							While camping on this island years ago,
							One evening late, an old man in a boat
							Came punting slowly up the winding stream.
							The sky was low'ry, and the mist hung low;
							He moored his craft and came to where I sat.
							Wrinkled and gray he was, and old; but still
							He stood erect; and, though his garb was poor,
							There yet was something in the old man's mien
							Which marked him as above the mendicant.
							Touching his hat, "Good evening, sir," he said,
							" I find myself some distance from my camp.
							The night is here and there will be no moon;
							The stream is swifter than it used to be,
							Or else my strength is not what once it was;
							What chance, if I may ask, to stay with you?"
							"'Most welcome, sir," I answered him : and soon,
							His luggage piled within my little tent,
							The old man, half reclining on the sward
							Beside the fire, chatted pleasantly,
							While I prepared for him a simple meal --
							Such as a hunter may -- of fish and game,
							And from a store which I had found that day
							A few small clusters of delicious grapes.
							And when he saw the fruit, he took it up
							And pressed it to his lips, but did not eat.
							"Ah!" he exclaimed, "the Sieur de LaSalle!
							I thought they all had perished long ago.
							Time was when here upon this island grew
							A vineyard fair to see; but wanton waste
							And careless camp fires long ago had wrought
							Such havoc here, I had not thought to see
							Another of their kind. But do you know
							The story of these grapes? Have you not heard?


							

							Wait then, until I finish my repast
							And I will try to tell it once again."
							When done, he took a cluster in his hand
							And held it up so that the light shone through;
							And then, as one who talks unto himself,
							He said, "Ah, yes, the color of old wine!
							When first I tasted of these grapes I stood
							Among the comrads of my early youth.
							A hardier lot of trappers ne'er set stake;
							A truer band of brothers ne'er were born.
							Where are they now? Some asleep in sunny France;
							Some in the church-yard at the good St. James
							Far up in old Quebeck; and some have found
							A resting place beside this peaceful stream;
							While others, more of Indian blood than French,
							Have wandered westward, where I do not know;
							And I alone am left; and I have come
							To view once more the old familiar haunts
							And bid to each of them a last adieu."
							The old man paused and tasted of the fruit,
							And then exclaimed, "Mon Dieu, How I forget!
							I promised you a story did I not?
							And shall I tell it? Well then, here it is.
						

						
							"Somewhere among the vine clad hills of France,
							-- Just where I do not know. It matters not.--
							A rich vine grower lived, whom I shall call
							Francisco, thought in truth 'twas not his name.
							A widower he was; an only child,
							Which came to him the day its mother died,
							Was, save a few old servants, all he had
							By way of household; and his friends were few.
							Francisco prospered; year by year his wealth,
							And year by year his cares increased as well.

							

							His vineyards spread beyond his native vale,
							And far beyond the seas his wares were praised.
							Some said he knew a secret charm which gave
							The flavor and the sparkle to his wine;
							While others said old Hilda knew the charm.
							Else, why should proud Francisco often bring
							Fair presents to Dame Hilda's little cot?
							Else, why should he with each returning spring,
							Take cuttings only from the spreading vines
							Which clambered over Hilda's humble door?
						

						
							And so the years went by; the children played --
							His daughter, Annette, and old Hilda's son --
							About the wine press or among the vines;
							And with the years, their childish friendship grew
							And ripened into something else besides.
							Old Hilda saw and nodded to herself,
							And smiled to see Francisco was so blind.
							But what the eyes may sometimes fail to see
							The ears may hear, and so it was with him.
							While walking in the vineyard all alone,
							He chanced to come upon the youthful pair;
							And overheard them talking in low tones;
							And, all unnoticed, listened for a while,
							Yet held his peace and slipped away unseen.
							"Why! they were children yesterday," he said,
							"And now they talk as full grown lovers do."
							But soon the boy was sent away to school;
							His daughter, too, was sent away as well,
							To learn those little nothings ladies know;
							And people said, "How kind to Hilda's child
							Francisco is." And so the time went by;
							But when the boy and girl were back again
							Among the vineyards, and the father saw
							That still his daughter looked with kindly eyes


							

							Upon the youth now grown to manhood's state,
							He climbed the hill to where the abby stood
							And sought the council of old Father Gean.
							"Good Father," said Francisco, "I have come
							To ask thy council. Hilda's son, it seems,
							Has found some favor in my daughter's eyes;
							And, for his father's sake, I wish him well.
							For 'twas his father who discovered first
							Or propagated -- call it what you will-- 
							The kind of grape which makes Francisco wine;
							And strange to tell, the vines at Hilda's door,
							The vines his father planted, still must give
							The cuttings for my vineyards, for all else
							Yield but a barren vintage where they grow.
							And I must keep old Hilda's favor still,
							Yet I would have my only daughter wed
							Above her station rather than below.
							And now, good father, set your wits to work;
							And if between your prayers you find a plan
							To rid me of this boy yet leave me still
							The friend and neighbor of Old Hilda, then
							The spigot of your wine cask shall not fail."
							Old Father Gean laughed merrily and said,
							"I am too old to go without my wine;
							And yet I cannot promise over much;
							Leave me to think, and if I find a way
							I shall not fail to hold you to your word.
							Come this day week again and bring with you
							A flagon of your best, and I will try."
							And when they met again old Father Gean
							First drank his draught in silence, then he spoke.
							"What I can do must first be for the church;
							And after that, what little good I may
							For those I love and those who love the church.
						


						

						
							Across the sea a new world waits the church;
							Both priests and laymen, young as well as old,
							Are needed there Why not send Hilda's son?
							Suppose you give him of thy wealth enough
							That he may barter with the savage tribes
							Suppose you say to him that you will see
							That want shall never come to Hilda's door?
							Tell him that you have seen what you have seen,
							And yet you think that he should win success
							Or do some service for the church or state
							E'er you could give consent for him to wed
							Your daughter with the dower she will bring.
							Speak to thy daughter first and then to him,
							And I will speak to Hilda in due time.
							I chance to know that at our court to-day
							A certain Robert Seur de LaSalle
							Has found much favor with our worthy king.
							He soon will sail for that new world again,
							And I can get free passage for the boy."
							" But should he win success and come to claim
							My daughter and dowery, what then?"
							The old priest laughed right merrily and said,
							"Why, I would say your money were well spent.
							But know you not, that of the thronging hosts
							That in the past have sought those distant shores,
							The number who return is very small ?
							Some perish in the sea, some fall in war,
							And some by secret foe; but many fail
							To win success or e'en a passage home,
							And after while find in the wild free life
							A potent charm which holds them to the end."
							"Ah !'Father Gean, you have not yet lost your wits !"
							Exclaimed Francisco. "I shall see the boy;
							And, if I fail, I'll have him come to you,"

							

							Next day Francisco stayed within his house;
							Walked here and there as if in deepest thought;
							Until at last his daughter came to him
							And begged to know the burden of his mind.
							"My child," he said, "I have one only care,
							Your happiness. If that I can secure
							Then will I be content, for I shall feel
							That I have filled the purpose of my life.
							You love Sebastian. Nay, nay, do not blush,
							For he is certainly a goodly youth;
							And I had thought to train him in my stead;
							And for this purpose sent him off to school;
							But Father Gean, with whom I council oft,
							Urges me now to give him of my wealth
							And let him like the knights of old go forth
							And do some worthy work for church or state,
							Ere I consent that you and he may wed."
							His daughter, being young and having faith
							In Father Gean, and faith in him she loved,
							And though her heart grew heavy at the thought,
							Yet to herself she said, "I will be brave;"
							And to her father, "I will let him go."
							Tnen went Francisco to the little cot;
							And, seeing young Sebastian, called to him,
							"Come, my young friend, come have a walk with me."
							And as they strolled along Francisco told
							His story much the same as he had told
							It to his daughter, adding at the last,
							"I will not urge , but if you wish to go
							I will not stint you, for in doing so
							I would but add a hazard to success.
							I do it not for you but for my child,
							For had it been another whom she loved,
							Then for another would I do the same."

							

							Now young Sebastian oft had thought upon
							A journey very like the one proposed ;
							And thus to have Francisco offer help
							And even seem well pleased to further him,
							Like one who sees his fondest dream come true
							He lacked for words with which to voice his joy,
							And then Francisco spoke old Hilda, fair.
							"Your son," he said, "has come to man's estate:
							And, as becomes a man, he is in love.
							With whom, I warrant you, you have not guessed "
							"I have not guessed!" The good dame laughed aloud.
							"Why need I guess when I have eyes to see?
							For I have known what you might well have known;
							They have been lovers since their childhood days.
							Look you, Francisco, had it not been so,
							Your vineyards would not hold the only vines
							To bear the grapes which make Francisco wine;
							But you, Francisco, have been fair with me,
							As men count fairness; yet had I not known
							That sometime mine would share with yours the wealth,
							Which with the years your hands have gathered in,
							The cuttings from those vines beside my door
							Had found a market at a price which now
							Would build a mansion better far than thine."
							" Ah! then, my good dame Hilda, I am glad
							That you had eyes to see while I was blind.
							But, having learned the truth, I now have come
							To council with you, what is best to do.
							It seems to me they are full young to wed;
							And I had thought to keep the youth at school
							And after that to train him in my stead;
							But Father Gean advises otherwise.
							Still he is such a dreamer, and his dreams
							Are always for the good of the church or state --

							

							But I would have you talk with him, and then
							We two will have our council afterward.
							And so it happened in a day or two
							Old Father Gean came to the cottage door,
							And long he talked with Hilda, till at last
							Like Abraham of old she gave consent
							To make the sacrifice, her only son;
							And on the day the little ship set sail
							Which bore Sebastian from his native land
							The wine cask at the abbey was refilled.
						

						
							The years went by; one, two, three, four, had passed.
							At intervals of many weary months
							A message came from far across the sea
							Which told the story of his journeyings;
							How he had landed safely with his wares;
							Had lingered at the mission for a time;
							Then with the brave La Salle had journeyed far
							Into the wilderness and came at last
							Through many hardships to a wondrous land
							Where many beaver lived and otter too,
							And here a remnant of an ancient tribe
							Had found retreat secure from their foes,
							For all about is marsh and swamp and stream,
							Save here and there a little wooded isle;
							How he had found these people well disposed,
							Had stopped with them and built a trading post
							And planted from the cuttings he had brought
							A tiny vineyard here among the trees.
							And when each message came Francisco then
							Would take his hat and cane and find his way
							To good dame Hilda's little cot and read
							It slowly over many times to her.
							This time it told quaint tales of Indian lore;
							And then again how once the Iroquois

							

							While on the war path found their little band,
							Which, taking refuge in the swamps, withstood
							A hundred painted warriors for a week,
							And slew so many that the rest withdrew;
							How afterwards the old chief, Eagle came
							And named him "Great Heart," which among the tribes
							Was greater honor than to be a chief.
							His daughter too, would take her messages,
							And read them also; though, perchance, some part,
							The first and last, old Hilda did not hear.
						

						
							Thus far Francisco had no settled plan;
							Content he was to let the matter drift;
							And when Sebastian in the fourth year wrote
							How he had prospered far beyond his dreams,
							And how if fortune favored him for yet
							A little while, say two or three years more,
							He would return with wealth to more than match
							The dowery Francisco's wealth would yield,
							Francisco said, "Yes, we will let him toil
							As many years as Jacob did of old,
							And if he win the wealth which he foretell
							Why then I will not surely say him nay."
							But now it chanced the day this message came,
							His daughter was away, and business kept
							Francisco from dame Hilda's humble cot.
							And drinking wine with Father Gean that night
							Francisco met the Marquis de LaRoy.
							Warmed by the wine, the old priest's tongue was loosed;
							He to the Marquis praised Francisco's wine,
							His vineyards, and his wealth and daughter too,
							And to Francisco praised the noble name
							Of de LaRoy; and, growing eloquent,

							

							Exclaimed, "Why not unite this noble name
							And wealth, and send the lady off to court !"
							And when Francisco rose to go, LaRoy
							Went with him to the hall, to bid adieu;
							And, as he took his hand, he said to him,
							" The good priest prattles foolishly at times,
							And yet, methinks, there's sense in what he said.
							Think on his words and I will come to you."
							His daughter wed a marquis ! Well, why not?
							A noble fortune for a noble name!
							And so he kept the message to himself.
							And when the marquis came, he promised him
							That he should wed his daughter in due time.
							"But wait a little while, for I must send
							This girl of mine to talk with Father Gean,
							For I would have you wed a willing bride.
							And since I ask you to delay," he said,
							"And since in time the fortune which I hold
							Will all be thine. If you have present need
							I beg of you to name the sum, and you
							Shall have it free from use or usury."
							And well supplied, the marquis went his way
							Content to wait Francisco's pleasure still,
							If still Francisco's purse would wait on him.
							And then Francisco went away from home
							A three days' journey to a seaport town
							Where he was all unknown, and gave it out
							That he was Emil Sego just returned,
							And seeking out a scrivener bade him write --
							For he, himself, he claimed was too unskilled --
							A letter to Francisco in his stead;
							How he a faithful follower and friend
							Of one Sebastian Labareau, had come
							Through many dangers once again to France,

							

							And how at such a time a lawless band
							Did come upon the little trading post,
							Slew all the inmates, plundered, and then burned
							The store house. He alone by chance escaped;
							But in the night time, stealing back again,
							Had lingered long enough to give to each
							Unfortunate a Christian burial.
							And then he wrote a message somewhat long,
							In which, with many a sigh and pious saw,
							He told Sebastian how but recently,
							His mother, growing weary with her years,
							Had passed into that peaceful, perfect rest;
							And then in briefer business way he told
							Of Annette's marriage to the De LaRoy.
							The letters posted and the scrivener paid,
							And then Francisco took his homeward way.
							Why need to tell of Annette's wildest grief?
							Why need to tell of Hilda's deepest woe?
							Francisco saw, yet held his evil way;
							He longer sat with Father Gean each night
							And drowned his conscience in his good, red wine,
							Until one evening, after many days,
							His cunning failed him, and he told the priest
							The evil he had done. Told it as one
							Who tells of something worthy of all praise.
							The old priest listened, silent to the end;
							He then arose, his white face whiter still;
							And with his hands uplifted, cried aloud,
							"This is my sin, Oh Lord ! Oh, Lord, forgive!
							And since my counsel bears such evil fruit,
							Then let me bear the burden of this sin."
							Face downward on the rough stone floor he sank
							And prayed again, "Oh ! how shall I atone?
							Dear Holy Virgin, Mother of our Lord,

							

							Help mne to find the way." Francisco fled,
							And all night long, he wandered 'mong the vines,
							Mad with the wine. He tried to hide himself;
							Demons and serpents seemed to lurk and hiss
							At him on either hand. On, on, he went,
							Through first one vineyard, then another, till
							In the gray dawn of morn he came and stood
							Beside a little pool. How clear it looked !
							How its cool depths would sooth his aching head !
							He saw no devils leering up at him;
							Here he could hide ; he would be safe at last.
							A plunge, a ripple on the pebbled marge,
							A few small bubbles, bursting one by one;
							And when the sun rose up it shone upon
							The placid lakelet fast asleep again.
							And with the morning went Old Father Gean
							To Hilda's little cot, and there confessed,
							Withholding naught, and taking the blame
							Upon himself. " Nay, nay, good Father, nay,"
							Old Hilda cried. " Your sin you have not named,
							For it doth lie in too much love of wine.
							As for Francisco, hark ye, Father Gean,
							A blight already lurks among his vines;
							His vineyards soon will be a worthless waste;
							His empty wine butts gaping at each stave;
							The curse of Hilda rests upon his wealth."
							Then going forth, took from the little porch
							A rusty mattock, and when evening came
							The spreading vines about the tiny cot,
							Both root and branch, were but a smouldering heap
							Of failing embers near by Hilda's door.
							Another year of weary waiting passed,
							And still no message came across the sea.
							The vineyards lay yellow beneath the blight

							

							The peasants said because of Hilda's curse.
							Francisco did not come; and no one knew
							What lay entangled in the sunken drift
							Beneath the surface of the silent pool.
							Tnen one day Father Gean came down the hill;
							His staff was in his hand, and on his back
							A mantle such as traveling pilgrims wear,
							And at his side a well filled palmer's pouch.
							He paused a moment at Francisco's gate
							And bade a servant send her mistress out.
							"My child," said he, when Annette came to him,
							"I could not come to you, for I have vowed
							That I will never rest nor sleep again,
							Beneath the roof tree of a Christian home
							Until I find Sebastian and have brought
							Balm to hearts which I have made to bleed."
							" Oh, Father Gean, how very strange !" she cried.
							" I, too, have made a vow, and on this day,
							It was my purpose first to come to you,
							And then make my way across the sea;
							And I have vowed I never will return
							Unless Sebastian may return with me."
							" So be it then. I add your vow to mine,"
							The old priest said; and, lifting up his eyes,
							He spread his hands above the maiden's head,
							And asked a blessing on their pilgrimage.
						


						
							The sea was not unkind, and in due time
							They landed in Quebec, and here they found
							A band of trappers who were on the eve
							Of starting westward. Some of them would go
							As far as Mackinaw, and some beyond;
							And with this band of rough, tho' kindly men,

							

							They journeyed many days until they came
							To Fort Miamis. Here they tried in vain
							To find a guide who still could lead them on.
							But after weeks, and still no one was found,
							Then Annette said. "Good Father, let us go;"
							And so at last these two set out alone.
							For days they toiled, until one day they saw
							A sign upon the tree, a double cross,
							Which marked the portage to the Kankakee.
							"Take courage now, my daughter," said the priest,
							"Thus far our journey lay against the tide,
							But now the tide has turned." " Nay, Father Gean,"
							She said, "The current of the stream may change
							To help us on the way or hold us back;
							But in my heart a something says to me,
							'The tide will never turn ;' but I have learned
							To say with you in truth, 'Thy will be done.'"
							Yet. as they journeyed down the sluggish stream,
							A restlessness she did not try to hide,
							Seemed with each day to grow and urge her on.
							Oh, Father Gean, awake; 'tis time to go;"
							"Let us not stop for dinner, Father Gean ;"
							Why may we not go on tho' it is dark ?"
							Thus did she urge, each morning, noon and night.
							The old priest saw the flush upon her cheek,
							The fever burning in her restless eyes;
							And hastened with a great fear in his heart.
							Late in the evening of an autumn day,
							They came upon the little trading post,
							And here they landed. Hand in hand, they went
							Up from the river by the well worn path,
							And stood beneath the overhanging eaves;
							But all was silent, and the door was barred.
							" Courage, my daughter," still the old priest said,

							

							"A wigwam stands a Ifttle way beyond ;
							There we may learn what we most wish to know."
							And as they went, an Tndian maiden came
							With wonder in her eyes and outstretched hands ;
							And in a language, half her own, half French,
							She bid them welcome. " Men who wear the cross,
							Within the Eagle's wigwam, rest in peace;
							And she, the White Swan with you, too, shall find
							A friend in Humming Bird. Great Heart has gone
							A long Moon's journey toward the setting sun;
							He and my brother, Little Bear, will come,
							When once again the wood duck feeds her young.'"
							" Oh, Father Gean, the tide will never turn ;"
							Poor Annette sighed and sank upon the ground.
						

						
							Within the wigwam, many weeks she lay
							In wild delirium; and when at last,
							The fever spent itself, so weak was she,
							That it was spring, before she ventured forth.
							But now to her the past was like a dream,
							A dim, uncertain, half-forgotten dream ;
							She still remembered in a shadowy way, --
							For love had held its own,--Sebastian's name.
							And after while, when she had stronger grown,
							Each morn would come and sit beside the stream
							And watch and wait, and sometimes softly call;
							And in the evening when the shadows fell,
							The Indian maiden, Humming Bird, would come
							And sit beside her for a little while,
							Then take her hand and gently lead her home.
						

						
							Spring ripened into summer, then one day
							The Eagle came and spoke to Father Gean.
							" The wood duck now, no longer feeds her young.
							Great Heart and Little Bear have not returned;

							

							And men who have no wigwams of their own
							May follow on a trail that never turns.
							Let us go back among the islands where
							The few remaining of my people dwell."
						

						
							Here Father Gean took up his work again
							And spent his days in doing kindly deeds.
							He toiled and taught and prayed and found at last
							His burden lighten and his soul at peace.
							Poor Annette still her constant vigil kept;
							And so a dozen weary years went by.
							The Eagle went no more upon the chase,
							And Father Gean no longer went his rounds;
							But, with their wants supplied with kindly hands,
							They sat and dozed beside the wigwam door.
							And, sitting thus one summer afternoon,
							There came to them a faint and far off call.
							The old chief heard it, lifted up his head
							And listened long, then muttered, "Did I dream ?"
							But now again from far away there came
							The wild victorious cry which warriors gave
							When safe returning from the chase or war.
							With kindling eyes, his age forgotten now,
							The old chief, springing to his feet, sent back
							In tones that woke the echoes far and near
							The old Mohecan joyous welcome home.
							The Humming Bird and Annette heard and came
							And stood a little way behind the chief.
							Old Father Gean, supported by his staff.
							Arose and waited by the wigwam door.
							While up the winding bayou swiftly came
							A light canoe, propelled by sinewy hands,
						
					

					

					
						PART II.

						
							The evil message which Francisco wrote
							Was sent in care of Father Cavalier,
							A brother to LaSalle, at Montreal;
							But long before the letter came, it seems,
							The priest had taken passage back to France.
							But now LaSalle, returning from the West,
							Fresh from his explorations to the Gulf,
							His fortunes scattered and his rights assailed,
							Determined once again to see his king.
							Not as a mendicant who asks for alms,
							Nor yet to seek return for fortune spent,
							But with a dream --a foolish dream perhaps,
							And yet a dream so grand and glorious
							That little souls who could not see beyond
							The profit to be made from beaver skins
							Could only wonder and call him mad.--
						


						
							Had he but had his brother's itching palm,
							What streams of wealth he might have made his own;
							And from his vantage at Ft Fontenac
							Controlled the traffic of the inland seas
							And gathered more and more, until at last,
							He might have been a Creosus or a king;
							But, loyal to his country and his church,
							His dream was of their glory and renown.
						

						

						
							While making preparations for his voyage,
							Among some letters, likewise overdue,
							He found the one that better had been lost.
							Now with LaSalle to Montreal had come
							His young Mohecan hunter, guide, and friend.
							For full four years and full five thousand leagues
							Of lake and stream and plain and forest ways,
							In stress and storm together they had gone;
							Both strong of purpose, brave and brawny men,
							And each a model of his type and time;
							Yet each beheld in all the changeful scenes
							That which the other had not eyes to see.
							White Beaver saw good feeding grounds for game
							And in the well-worn runways of the wood
							Saw signs of plenty and was satisfied.
							But to the Norman, ah what visions came ! 
							The gleaming sails of commerce on the lakes,
							And villages and towns upon the streams
							And oft in fancy heard at eventide
							The far, faint music of the vesper bells.
							His dream a prophecy; and yet, alas ! 
							For him and his no part of it came true.
							But now White Beaver and LaSalle had come
							To where their ways must part; the one to go
							Back to his people in the wilderness,
							The other first to see his king and then
							To meet disaster and at last his death.
							In the gray dawn beside the restless stream,
							LaSalle placed in White Beaver's trusty hand 
							The letter to Sebastian long delayed.
							" Take this," he said, "to Great Heart, he who trades
							Among your people on the Kankakee."
							A clasp of hands in iron grip; and then,
							Without reply, the savage went his way.
						
					

					

					
						PART III. 

						
							But what of him upon his lonely isle ?
							Impatient, yet well pleased, Sebastian toiled
							And saw his earnings double with each year.
							" Love lightens labor," is an old, old saw;
							But there is one I think is no less true.
							" A goodly profit makes our labor less;"
							And when both love and profit lent a hand,
							No wonder then Sebastian's heart was light! 
							And ever and anon, this one refrain
							Kept running in his thoughts, until his lips,
							Unconsciously at times, would give it words,
							"Only one year more! Only one year more !"
							The traffic for the season being closed,
							He needs must find a market for his wares.
							The nearest trading post of any note
							Was Point St. Ignace; thitherward he went;
							But here found he strange rumors in the air.
							"LaSalle was mad; Count Fontenac recalled;
							LeFebvre de LaBarre ruled in his stead;
							And all commissions issued by La Salle
							Had been revoked." A danger threatened him,
							For should he journey on to Montreal,
							LaBarre would surely confiscate his goods.
							But fortune favored him, for by mere chance
							He found some traders, inexperienced men,
							Who, weary of their ventures and in doubt,
							Were glad to take his furs at double price,
							And pay in goods at something less than cost.
						

						

						
							Oh, what delirious happiness was his !
							His year of exile dwindled into weeks,
							A little way beyond, Saut Ste. Marie,
							The greatest trading post in all the west,
							Held many traders, who would take his goods.
							And then -- and then he laughed in boyish glee ! 
							That day his boatman feasted to the full.
							And as they slumbered; late into the night,
							Before the failing fagots on the hearth,
							He sat and mused, and as he mused, he smiled.
							Success was his ! And now he laughed; and then,
							Oh fateful words I And then White Beaver came !
						



						
							Why is it, when the cup of joy is full,
							The ready hand of griet must strike it down ?
							Why, down beneath the rich, red wine of hope
							The dregs of disappointment always lie ?
							And why, with sweatest pleasures we must link,
							The galling shackles of an after pain ?
						


						
							Among the sleeping boatmen in the hut
							Was Little Bear, the old Chief Eagle's son,
							He saw White Beaver enter and depart;
							He saw Sebastian read, then pause and sigh,
							And draw his brawny hand across his brow.
							Was it the smoke? And then he read again.
							He saw him crush the parchment in his hand,
							And fling it to the flames; and with a curse,
							His first and last, ground out between his teeth,
							Pass out with heavy tread into the night;
							And like a shadow, followed Little Bear.
						

						

						
							My son, have you not seen the peaceful lake
							Asleep beneath a tranquil summer sky,
							Its margin mirrored in its crystal depths;
							And on the morrow looked again to see
							Its mad waves beat upon its stricken shore,
							And shriek and bellow in their senseless rage ?
							Of such is human life. To-day we dream,
							Secure in the hope the future holds;
							To-morrow wake to' wage a bootless war
							Against the jagged javelin points of fate.
						


						
							All night Sebastian paced the lonely beach;
							And as ever he went, a silent form,
							Within the friendly shelter of the wood,
							Kept even pace with him; but when at last
							With laden steps he sought the hut again,
							Among the boatmen slumbered Little Bear.
						


						
							Alas I no mortal ever yet has trod
							Through all his days the pathway of his dreams ;
							But soon or late, somewhere upon the road,
							Must from the fragments of his shattered hopes
							Piece out the after years as best he may.
						


						
							Unto Sebastian now that time had come.
							But weeks went by, and undecided still,
							He lingered at the Point, yet held aloof
							From traders, Indians, priests and coureurs de bois,
							And wandered all alone upon the beach,
							Or sat in gloomy silence in the hut,
							A sad. dejected, disappointed man.
						

						

						
							Until one night a courier from the east,
							Beset by ambushed foes upon the way,
							And wounded unto death, came to the door
							And fell across the threshold in a swoon,
							And never came to consciousness again.
							Sebastian found a message in his hand.
							So travel soiled was it and stained with blood,
							He needs must break the seal before he found
							It was from Tonty and its import gave.
							This message must go forward with all haste.
							The morning dawned to find him on his way,
							His boatman bribed to make a given point;
							And thus each day with gifts for greater speed,
							He urged them on. And as he went he planned.
							Tne past was past More wealth he did not crave;
							But there were left his country and his king;
							And in their service, he at least might win
							The peace and quiet of a nameless grave.
							No time was wasted at his trading post,
							And he and Little Bear set out alone.
							At Fort St. Louis for a time he served
							As scout and hunter; then with Tonty went
							On that long fruitless search to find LaSalle.
							But when at last their prows were homeward turned
							He had no heart to toil against the tide;
							Ambition had no hope to feed upon;
							Here in the wilderness he would remain,
							If not forgetting, then at least forgot.
							He went to Tonty and made known his wish;
							And Tonty gave him quittance; and he stayed,
							Year after year he drifted here and there,
							Until one night a missionary came,
							And asked the comfort of his camp till dawn.
							They sat and talked till far into the night.

							

							The kind loquacious priest had much to tell;
							How he had crossed the portage, and had found
							Old Father Gean upon the Kankakee;
							And all unconscious, told the story through.
							But ere the tale was ended Little Bear
							Arose and went in silence to the stream,
							Launched his canoe, placed in it food, and stood
							A statue on the shore; until at last
							Sebastian cried, " Good Father, I must go !
							I am the man they seek, and I must go !"
						


						
							I see the picture, but I cannot paint
							The meeting on that summer afternoon;
							The Eagle's stolid greeting of his son;
							The old priest's blessing and his fervent prayer;
							Poor Annette's childlike wonder and the sad
							And the silent Humming Bird, and in their midst
							A bronzed and bearded man, who strove to hide
							From savage eyes the anguish of his soul.
						


						
							Till late that night besides the old priest's couch,
							Sebastian sat and listened. Father Gean,
							Reserving nothing, told the story through.
							" Now leave me for awhile," the old priest said,
							" But with to-morrow come, and if you can,
							Then say to me, my son, that you forgive."
							Sebastian took the palsied hand and pressed
							It gently in his own broad palms and said,
							" I need not wait the morrow, Father Green."
							Then out into the night he went, and walked
							The gloomy forest depths until the dawn,
							And in the morning when he came again,

							

							A smile was on the old priest's withered lips,
							A cross lay on his breast, and he had slipped
							Into that long, untroubled, dreamless sleep.
							What followed in the after years, it seems
							No one can tell; but still a legend runs:
							How hunters often on this island saw
							A woman, old and gray, who seemed to seek
							For something she had lost, but could not find;
							And with her always as she came and went,
							An Indian woman, older yet than she.
							And to this day, that lonely spot is called
							" White Woman's Island." This same legend tells
							How here among the natives years ago,
							A sad faced white man spent his latter days.
							But whether Annette and Sebastian here
							Lived out their lives, my grandsire did not know."
						

						
							Such is the story which the old man told.
							How much of it is true I do not know;
							And then, in truth, it may be wholly false;
							But there is something left by way of proof;
							For take these vines from that one little isle
							And plant them where you will; strange it may seem,
							But naught of vintage will the years produce,
							And after while, they yellow with the blight;
							For Hilda's charm and Hilda's curse still hold.
						

					
				
				

				

					A CONFESSION.

					
						Do you think a middle-aged man like me,
						Who has had his share of the world's rough ways,
						Has never a thought of the used to be;
						Has never a sigh for the golden days?
						What others may tell you I do not know
						But as for myself, I have found this true,
						The pleasures of youth have an after glow,
						That purples the past with an Orient hue.
					


					
						And I count my manhood as none the less
						When I own that the scenes of my childhood years
						Still touches my heart with a tenderness
						That moistens my eyes with a mist of tears.
						You call it sentiment. It matters not.
						For call it whatever to you it seems,
						Yet my heart is touched, when I view the spot,
						Where I wove from fancy a boy's sweet dreams!
					

				
				
				
					COMPENSATION.
					
						Sometimes, in the dusk of evening
						While sitting here all alone,
						And the shadows fall, and the crickets call
						In a soothing undertone,
						I forget the day and its doings
						The morrow with all its care,
						For my thoughts will stray in a vagrant way,
						And my soul is otherwhere,
					

					
						Away where hills lie dreamy
						In the mellow autumn haze ;
						And I catch the gleam of a winding stream
						And shadowy woodland ways;
						And again to me comes the laughter
						As it echoes down the glen
						Of the merry rout when school is out;
						Forgetting the boys are men,
					

					
						Who met with me on the playground
						With its mottled sun and shade;
						And I quite forget how weed beset
						Is the spot on which we played,
						For 'tis to me as it used to be,
						And my barefoot fancy plays
						The old, old games with their old, old names,
						We played in the old, old days.
					

					

					
						To-night, as the shadows deepen,
						And the evening air grows chill,
						And the night winds sigh as they wander by,
						The katydid, sad and shrill,
						Gives voice to sadness within my heart
						As I sit here all alone;
						And the crickets croon to the rising moon,
						In a plaintive undertone.
					


					
						I hear a shout, and I listen ;
						'Tis a voice I surely know,
						As it cries "I spy," and I hear the cry
						As I heard it long ago;
						And I smile at my foolish dreaming
						With something akin to shame,
						For over the way my boy at play
						Is playing the old, old game.
					


					
						Thus out of the wreck some salvage
						Does the tide of years bring in;
						Tho' many have failed of the ships I sailed,
						A cargo of wealth to win
						Yet I count my losses as nothing,
						And pleasures beyond recall.
						The shout of my boy with his soul of joy
						Is payment enough for all.
					

				
				

				
					THE OLD SETTLER'S STORY.

					
						It was way back in the forties,
						 I was only twenty-one,
						But Pap Evans here, was older,
						 And a master hand at fun.
					


					
						When we two came west together,
						Staked out claims a mile apart,
						And we buckled down to business
						With about an even start.
					


					
						All that,season and the next one,
						Half in earnest, half in jest,
						Each one tried to beat the other,
						 And we did our level best.
					


					
						And we might have kept on always
						In that friendly sort of way
						If a niece of Old Ben Buckley's
						Hadn't come out here to stay.
					


					
						But when men in love are rivals,
						Friendship must soon step aside
						To make room for baser passions,
						Envy, jealousy, and pride.
					

					

					
						But my souls ! She was a beauty!
						Hair the color of the silk
						Of the white field corn in summer,
						 When the grain is in the milk.
					

					
						Eyes as blue as Johny-Jump Ups,
						Teeth as white as whitest chalk,
						And her step -- Well, by St. Peter !--
						There was witchcraft in her walk.
					

					
						And her laugh was like the twitter
						Of the swallows 'round the barn.
						" Let up there," you say, Pap Evans,
						 Who's a spinning of this yarn ?
					

					
						Well, the jade dispensed her favors
						To us each about the same.
						Size her treatment fair and honest
						Neither one of us could name
					

					
						One poor, little word or action
						Which in any way could show
						Just which one of us was getting
						Of the other the whip row.
					

					
						Lord ! The nights I tossed and I worried,
						Wishing I knew what to do;
						And Pap Evans here, was fretting
						 In about as hot a stew.
					

					

					
						How, at last, there came a climax,
						Neither one of us could tell,
						But it seems that men turn devils
						If they live awhile in hell.
					


					
						By some chance, we met one evening
						Just outside her uncle's gate.
						And my heart was full of envy,
						And his eyes were full of hate,
					


					
						And we fought like very demons,
						Until neither one could rise;
						Still we glowed at each other,
						Both with murder in our eyes.
					


					
						Now it happened that her uncle
						Had a sort of under hand,
						A big headed, light haired Dutchman,
						One could hardly understand;
					


					
						For he spoke such broken English,
						And he happened out that way;
						And he stood and gazed upon us
						For a moment as we lay.
					


					
						Then he said, "Veil, vat ter tifel.
						Vas yer fighden like some curs?
						Don' yer tink der schoene Frauline
						Now could lofe you any verz ?
					

					

					
						You yust go home, all bote of you
						 Und den put dis on der shelf,
						 Fore derChune pugs coome next summer
						I will marry her mineself."
					

					
						And sir, by the good St. Peter !
						What that Dutchman said was so;
						But we can laugh about it now
						For it happened long ago.
					
				
				
					 THE OLD MAN TALKS.
					
						I am somewhat of a fogy, and a little out of date,
						For I never learned to travel at your rapid modern gait;
						But a fogy may have ideas, which have not gone to seed,
						With now and then some good advice that's worth your while to heed.
						And I can't help sometimes thinking, there are some things now-a-days,
						That would be the better patterned after good old-fashioned ways;
						For I know that with the changes, which the years have brought about
						There were some things worth the keeping, that have somehow faded out.
						Friendship now is not as hearty, nor our sympathy as free,
						And the world is growing colder since the days that used to be:
						Then our little world was narrowed to a single neighborhood
						And our neighbors always neighbored; the evil and the good,
						Which came to one was shared by all; each marriage, death or birth;

						

						Awoke our kindly interest; our sadness and our mirth
						Were held as common property; that kinship now is less,
						And in its stead are jealousy and pride and selfishness.
						Your fast trains and your daily press bring the world's woe to your door,
						But the latch-string seldom dangles on the outside any more.
						Oh! those happy days ere Mammon made us slaves to greed and gain,
						When our roadway like a ribbon wound across the verdant plain
						And a sense of boundless freedom made our hearts to overflow,
						And our eyes beheld a beauty which you youngsters do not know,
						Who have grown up with the custom, which in your day confines
						Your travel to the highways now laid outonsection lines.
						Ah! full many a real pleasure and full many a joy have fled,
						Since the day when first the carriage left the wagon in the shed.
						True our labor then was harder than the work you have to do,
						But we never lacked for muscle, nor the will to put it through;
						We didn't pile up dollars like you folks are doing now;
						But we weren't so over anxious for great riches anyhow;
						And our wants were not so many, for our vanity was less.
						Then each maiden went to meeting in a linsey, woolsey dress;
						And her beau was dressed in homespun, and their love was homespun too;
						And divorces weren't the fashion as they seem to be with you.

						

						But I would not have you youngsters think, that just because I find,
						There are some things worth the keeping that have somehow dropped behind,
						That I hold the good as worthless, that I find along the way,
						Or think the world had not progressed, since that far off yesterday.
						But the past to me is sacred, and old memories will come
						With a rush of recollections of a humble cabin home;
						And somehow I can't help thinking, for it sometimes seems to me,
						That love to-day is not as true as what it used to be;
						 For it seems that little cabin held at least an hundred-fold
						More of genuine affection, than your stately mansions hold.
						But forgive an old man's prattle and forget his childish tears;
						For mine eyes have gathered moisture from the mist of many years;
						And the sunlight falls so slanting from the western sky to-day,
						That my vision seems the clearer when I look the other way.
						 My ambition lights no beacons on the future's purple slopes,
						And my fancy finds no embers in the ashes of my hopes;
						And I am only waiting with a faith that comforts me
						For the welcome of the Master to the life that is to be,
						Where no change gives birth to sadness, where our hopes we may renew,
						Where our love is all completeness, and our dreams will all come true.
					

				

				


				
					A COMMON-PLACE STORY.

					
						I will tell you a story, my friends, but I fear
						It is such a common-place story, that here
						Is hardly the place for a story Ikie mine.
						We like to hear something that cheers us like wine,
						Of valorous deeds done for truth and for right,
						But mine is a common-place story, to-night,
						Let us say, of a woman. Light-hearted was she,
						In the days of her girlhood, as blithesome and free
						As the birds that carroled about her. Her face,
						Not handsome, perhaps, but touched with a grace,
						Which mirrored a heart that was honest and true.
						Untrained and untrammeled to womanhood grew
						This wild rose, which bloomed in the forest's dim ways,
						Where few came to flatter, and none came to praise.
						Until one came at last, and whispered, -- Ah! well,
						The old, old sweet story, the hardest to tell.
						Then life was a poem, and love was the theme --
						A grave in the valley -- thus ended her dream.
						And she took up the burden of life, and went on;
						And the years came and went until twenty had gone;
						And the world did not know, for the world does not heed.
						When heart wounds are hidden, how long they may bleed.
						She lived not for self. Through this long drift of years,
						She smiled with the happy and mingled her tears
						With the tears of the mourners. But love came no more,
						The all-beautiful dream of her girlhood was o'er.
						A middle-aged woman, -- the shuttle of care
						Was weaving white threads in the gloss of her hair.

						

						And the pencil of time was beginning to trace
						Its unwelcome lines on her yet comely face;
						When a man of some wealth, a widower, came
						And offered his hand, and his home, and his name.
						She told him her story; he listened, then pled
						For the sake of the love which for both now was dead,
						They could live for each other, both needed a home,
						His was only a house, and would she not come?
						And she went; and for him and for his she toiled on,
						And the years came and went until twenty had gone.
						His children had married and each gone their way,
						When a letter, black bordered, was opened one day,
						Which told in brief words how the wife of a son
						Had sickened and died, and oh! what could be done
						For his motherless children? Thus the note read.
						She thought for a moment, then quietly said,
						"Just tell him to bring all his children to me."
						And the old house was filled as it once used to be;
						And the patter of feet on the bare oaken floor
						And shouts in the orchard re-echoed once more.
						'Til a new home was found and they all went away,
						Save one, for she begged that her Willie might stay.
						And he staid, and for him to the end she toiled on,
						And the years came and went, until thirty have gone,
						Since she went to the rest, which her labors had earned
						Where a love such as her's, perhaps, is returned.
						Oh! the infinite love, which she lavished on him!
						And he wonders sometimes, if those eyes old and dim
						Did not fancy they saw in his form, or could trace
						Some likeness in his, to that long-vanished face.
						But, my friends, my common-place story is done.
						It were better, perhaps, had I never begun,
						But I was her Willie, and so it may be
						Something more than a common-place story to me!
					

				

				

				
					SAM.


					
						Do you know Sam? Well, if you do,
						You know a feller that's red meat
						Clean through an' through-- red headed too,
						With freckles on his face, an' got
						A temper almost sugar sweet,
						But sometimes purty hot.
					


					
						But what's a freckled face if you
						 Jest know there ain't no spots inside?
						An' that is Sam. Bet you he is true.
						Makes no dif'rence what the consequence
						Er circumstance, Sam never lied,
						'Cept sometimes perhaps in my defense.
					


					
						Least wise that's how he use' to be,
						Ain't seen overly much o' him
						Sence we were boys, but him and me
						Wuz chums down there on Injun Crick.
						I wuz an orn'ry tow-headed limb
						An' Sam wuz a reg'lar brick.
					


					
						Not that we wuz overly mean --
						 'Bout like good boys generally git.
						Think sometimes if I had a seen;
						 Less o' him Sam might a stood
						A chance to never be bad a bit,
						Fer he 'uz jest naterly good.
					


					

					
						Sam had to work putty hard, but I
						Had nothin' at all to do but play,
						Er stedy up some devilment, er spy
						Out a melon patch, er likely trees
						Uv Early Harvesters, er ole gray
						Hornets nest, er mebby bumble bees.
					

					
						But Sundays wuz so fer apart!
						Just wait, an' wait, an' count each day
						Till I'ud mos' get out o' heart
						 Awaitin'. But I've come to know,
						Six times in seven its that way,
						Things we wait fer allus do come slow.
					

					
						Lauzy! what times we had! What fun!
						There ain't a field, er wood, er hill
						Fer miles around, that we ain't run
						Bare footed over; sailed slab rafts
						From gran' pap's down to Bruce's mill,--
						Bold buckaneers on pirate crafts.
					

					
						Went money huntin', dug fer gold,
						Killed off whole rigments of our foes, --
						The iron Weeds,-- kingdoms bought and sold!
						Fit an' died sometimes in ferren lands.
						Then turned Wild Injuns, shucked our close,
						An' with poke berries painted face an' hands.
					

					
						That 'uz Sam an' me, but thirty yers
						Has drifted in between, an' us apart.
						Some how my eyesight sort o' blurs
						 When thinkin' on it. Foolish you'll say
						An' so it is, but way down in my heart
						Love fer ole times an' Sam are there to stay.
					


					

					
						An' so it is, that sometimes in my dreams,
						I'm layin' up there in the loft,
						An' ever'thing around so natural seems,
						I hear the water pourin' from the dam
						An' hear the cedars outside singin' soft,
						An' then as like as not, I dream o' Sam.
					

				
				

				
					THE OLD FEATHER BED.


					
						I am weary to-night, and fain would I creep
						Up into the loft, where I once used to sleep,
						And leave, as I climbed up the old creaking stair,
						At its foot all my burden of worry and care;
						And turn back the blankets and old-fashioned spread,
						And hide from the world, in the old feather bed.
					



					
						Oh, the old feather bed! how its folds seemed to press
						'Round my play-wearied body with warmest caress!
						And I drifted away on its billows in dreams
						Of a rose-tinted future. Alas ! now it seems
						That the pain in my heart, and the ache in my head
						Would be soothed, could I rest on the old feather bed.
					



					
						I have tried the wide world, I have tasted its cheer,
						And much have I found that is precious and dear;
						But much that was priceless, is faded and gone --
						And folly too often has beckoned me on --
						And l long to go back through the years that have fled,
						And forget, for one night, on the old feather bed.
					

					

					
						How I wish I could strip by the old fire-place,
						And stand, as I used to, and warm for a space,
						Then muster up courage, and plunge up the stair,
						In the gloom of the night and the frost ladened air,
						And turn down the covers 'mid shivers and dread,
						And dive to the depths of the old feather bed!
					

					
						But I would not go back unless I could know
						I would hear on the stairs, a step labored and slow,
						And see a bent form, as beside me she stands,
						And feel the soft touch of her gentle old hands,
						As she smooths down the pillow about my young head,
						And tucks me in, snug in the old feather bed.
					

				
				


				
					NOW, AS GOOD AS ANY TIME.


					
						I have noticed that the poet,
						With a retrospective view,
						Seldom ever writes a poem
						That is altogether true.
					

					
						And for once I am determined
						To correct this glaring fault;
						Sprinkle facts among my fancies,
						As we season soup with salt.
					

					
						Let my theme be happy boyhood
						With its wayward, willful ways;
						Let me call up recollections
						 Of those almost perfect days.
					

					
						When the bloom was on the clover
						And our hearts were light and free --
						And we made our first acquaintance
						With the burley bumble-bee.
					

					
						Or perhaps, to put it stronger,
						When we came out second best
						In a rough and tumble wrestle
						With a yellow jacket's nest.
					

					

					
						How the June days smiled upon us!
						How we often used to steal!
						To the swimming hole on Sunday --
						 With a stone-bruise on the heel.
					


					
						How we rollicked in the water!
						How we reveled in the sand! --
						But our welcome home at evening
						Wasn't altogether grand.
					


					
						Oh! the plum trees in the thickets! --
						 Oh! the orchards on the hills!--
						And the colic and the doctor
						With his castor oil and pills.
					


					
						Oh! the berries in the brambles,
						Which this lesson seemed to teach,
						That the thing we prize the highest,
						 Is the one we cannot reach.
					


					
						Oh! the chestnut in the autumn,
						When the burrs begin to burst!--
						And we found the other fellow
						Was the one who got there first.
					


					
						Thus a hundred pleasing fancies
						 Crowd upon my thoughts to-day,
						And a hundred recollections,
						 That are just the other way.
					


					

					
						But the moral of my measure,
						And the sermon in my rhyme,
						It is this, my friends and neighbors,
						 Now's as good as any time.
					

				
				


				
					MIDSUMMER.


					
						Midsummer lays her spell upon the wood,
						And Nature now seems sadly out of tune,
						For songsters in the sultry heat of noon,
						Wake scarce one note in all the neighborhood.
						In vain I linger now where once I stood,
						 And listened to the melodies of June;
						 Alas! that all the songful world so soon
						Should sink into this silent, sober mood!
					

					
						The fields have lost their wealth of golden grain,
						And gone are all the rows of tented sheaves,
						 For creaking homeward late on dewy eves,
						Too oft has come the heavy laden wain; 
						And all night long the Katydids complain,
						 And through the evening late the cticket grieves.
						And unmolested now the spider weaves
						O'er stubble tops his silken strands again.
					


					
						A splash of crimson and a glint of gold,
						Along the zigzag fence rows tell the tale.
						That soon -- too soon -- will summer's splendor pale,
						And with each day will autumn grow more bold --
						Alas! to me the signs are manifold.
						 Nor from the voice of Nature do I fail
						To read the truth, nor yet the truth bewail,
						That summer, not alone, is growing old.
					

				
				

				
					IN THE WOODS AT NIGHT.


					
						The silv'ry rim of a brand new moon
						Was tangled in tree-tops low in the west,
						The Kadydid voices were all in tune,
						And the cricket fiddlers were at their best;
					


					
						The stars were thick on the milky way,
						The Brownies had sprinkled the grass with dew,
						While over the meadow in vagrant play,
						Came the idlest wind that ever blew;
					


					
						When a poet went forth, as poets will,
						To rhyme and to dream in some lonely dell;
						And he rhymed, and he dreamed, and wrote until
						Some very strange stories he had to tell.
					


					
						How the bull-frog tuning his banjo string
						Said "the tree-toad tittered and laughed at him,
						But the tree-toad said, it was no such thing,
						He was only putting his voice in trim."
					


					
						For it hadn't rained for a month or more
						And he couldn't give any reason why,
						For hadn't he called till his throat was sore?
						But still there wasn't a cloud in the sky.
					

					

					
						Then the bull-frog said, "You'd better go round
						And get Mr. Rain-crow to help you call,
						For if you don't do it, then I'll be bound,
						We won't get a shower till way next fall."
					


					
						How the raccoon dandy, who wears more rings
						Than any fine lady in the land,
						And seems to be always grinning at things,
						Said to Madam O'Possum, "I understand
					


					
						You always carry your cradle with you,
						No matter, 'tis said, wherever you go."
						Said, Madam O'Possum, "Oh, yes, 'tis true
						My babies are in it, I'd have you know."
					


					
						How the owl high up in the old oak tree,
						Whose sight is so poor, though he has big eyes,
						And stutters so badly, 'tis strange to me,
						That any one ever should call him wise.
					


					
						Kept asking the question, "Who, who are you?"
						But nobody answered, for it is plain,
						An impudent question, the whole world through
						Will wait for an answer, and wait in vain.
					


					
						These are some of the things which the poet saw,
						And a few, perhaps, that he dreamed he heard,
						But readers, remember there is no law,
						To keep you from doubting a poet's word.
					

				
				

				
					WANTED -- MEN.


					
						Ho! my boys, waken and listen,
						There are voices calling you --
						Men are wanted, men are wanted,
						Men are wanted, good and true.
					

					
						Not the slothful, nor the sluggard,
						Nor the laggard, nor the shirk:
						Men are wanted, men are wanted,
						Men are wanted, who will work.
					

					
						Not the sloven, nor the dullard,
						Nor the dotard, nor the dude,
						Men are wanted, men are wanted,
						With their souls imbued
					

					
						With the spirit of our progress --
						Never mind your rank or birth.
						Men are wanted, men are wanted;
						Men are measured by their worth.
					

					
						Are you ready, are you willing?
						Hear the voices calling still!
						Men are wanted, men are wanted,
						Men are wanted with the will.
					

					

					
						And the heart to do, undaunted,
						Honest work of ev'ry kind,
						Men are wanted, men are wanted,
						Clean of soul and clear of mind.
						Men are wanted, men are wanted.
						Harken, boys do you not hear?
						Do you measure to the standard?
						If you do, then answer, Here.
					

				
				

				

					OH I WISH IT WERE CHRISTMAS ALL THE YEAR.


					
						'Oh, I wish it were Christmas all the year."
						It was only the words of a little child,
						Yet never had wisher been more sincere,
						And I, who was older and wiser, smiled.
					

					
						But somehow the words of the little tot
						Still rang in my ears as the night grew old,
						Till at last I said in my heart, why not?
						 And I pondered long till the hearth grew cold.
					

					
						And I said: why not, through the whole long year,
						Free from selfish love and from foolish hate,
						Give a helping hand and a word of cheer
						To each slave of want, to each child of fate?
					

					
						And who are the needy? Ah! who shall say?
						For fame and fortune may bring us naught,
						And the heart my hunger and thirst alway
						For the good things gold has never bought.
					

					
						And the rich may starve, while the poor may feast,
						And the wealthy waste what the poor most need.
						 But it seems to me, that we all at least,
						For mouths that hunger and hearts that bleed,
					

					

					
						Might take with us always and give each day
						Of our Christmas greeting and Christmas cheer;
						Then fewer perhaps, with the child would say,
						Oh, I wish it were Christmas all the year!
					

				
				

				

					LIFE'S AIM.


					
						Can you tell me your aim in life, my boy?
						Is it to seek pleasure which soon will cloy;
						That loses it charm when we lose our youth,
						And burdens the heart with its rue and ruth?
					

					
						Is it sowing the fields and reaping the grain,
						Then plowing and sowing and reaping again,
						Through a long, monotonous round until
						The heart wears out, and the hands are still?
					

					
						Is it hunting and hoarding the yellow dross,
						And counting the time as an utter loss
						If it bring no gain to your worldly store?
						Ah, surely your purpose is something more!
					

					
						For sowing the fields and reaping the grain,
						And every endeavor for honest gain,
						Should only be methods which we pursue
						To some higher aim, which we have in view.
					

					
						For our purpose in life should ever rise
						From the grov'ling earth to azure skies;
						From the selfish greed of a sordid heart,
						To a nobler, grander, and better part.
					

				
				

				
					TO THE COUNTRY BOY.

					
						Here's to the boy who is country born!
						Who weeds the onions and hoes the corn,
						Fodders the flock and waters the drove,
						And cuts the wood for the kitchen stove;
						Carries the water and empties swill,
						And grinds the grist on the coffee mill;
						And has a dozen more chores to do --
						I say, young fellow, here is to you
						You may be fat or you may be lean,
						Your city cousin may call you "green,"
						Your face so freckled it cannot tan;
						You may be built on an awkward plan,
						And common the kind of clothes you wear,
						But I know the kind of boy you are;
						And I have known many of just your style,
						And even worse, who, after a while,
						Plodding along at a sturdy pace,
						Have plodded up to a high place.
						You some times envy the city chap,
						And think he's the one who has the "snap,"
						But I tell you, 'tis as true as truth
						It is not you but the city youth,
						Who has not half of a good fair show,
						For you have plenty of room to grow.
						You think sometimes as you dig and sweat,
						You work pretty hard for what you get,
						But with the muscle and nerve and bone,
						And the self-reliance, all your own.
					

					

					
						Which after while you surely will need,
						You can count yourself well paid, indeed.
						And say, my lad, will you name out right
						The price you put on your appetite?
						For many a city man would pay
						Whatever price you may ask, to-day.
						Yes, pay in dollars of good hard gold,
						More than your pockets and hat would hold.
						Oh, country boy! May your bare brown feet
						Long be strange to the city street.
						But may they tread in the peaceful ways
						Of a country life through all your days.
					

				
				


				
					 THE LEGEND OF THE LADY SLIPPER.


					
						Long, long ago I heard hale housewives say --
						 "That fairies lingered in each shady dell,"
						But now it seems they all have gone away,
						And this the legend, good old grand dames tell:
					

					
						Once Fay, the fairy queen, though fancy free,
						Was courted by the prince of goblins, Rex,
						But though a prince and one of high degree
						In goblin land, his wooings did but vex
					

					
						The fairy queen; thrice did tell him nay,
						And yet her way toward him was not unkind,
						How like a woman was this fairy Fay!
						How like a man was Rex! How blind!
					

					
						Still bent on winning her he tried to please,
						By sending presents from the silk worm's loom,
						And sweetest bon bons which the bumble bees
						Filch through long summer days from clover bloom;
					

					
						And filmy fabrics fashioned from the strands
						Which spiders spin upon the stubbles brown,
						And softest cushions made by elfin hands
						From whitest milkweed and the thistle down.
					

					

					
						But all in vain, his presents were returned --
						All save the bon bons -- Oh, how Rex did rave! 
						A fierce and fiery hate within him burned,
						And then he vowed that Fay should be his slave.
					


					
						And calling all his minions, bade them hide
						In ev'ry dell and ev'ry gloomy glen
						And wait until the fairy queen they spied,
						Then carry her captive to the fen
					


					
						Wherein he held his court, and captive too,
						And in a trice was ev'ry goblin hid,
						Each midget monster to his prince was true,
						And hastened all, to do as they were bid.
					


					
						And Fay, the fairy queen, that evening late,
						Well mounted on her steed, the dragon-fly,
						Still all unconscious of her hapless fate,
						In merry mood went riding gayly by.
					


					
						When all at once a goblin sprang at her,
						While in pursuit came all the yelping band,
						Though she escaped by using whip and spur,
						She left one slipper in the goblin's hand.
					


					
						But fairy slippers have a magic charm,
						So I am told, but whether true or not,
						This slipper wrought the goblins woeful harm:
						And changed them all to nettles on the spot.
					

					

					
						This legend may be true, for I have found,
						Where nettles grow, there fairies do not dwell.
						And little lady-slippers most abound
						Among the nettles in each shady dell.
					
				

				

				
					MARG.

					
						She warn't to say han'some. Well, yes, she wuz:
						Fer han'some, ye know, is as han'some does.
						But she warn't to say purty. That is, her face,
						'Til you got well a'quainted, looked common place --
						Folks lived up here in the country a piece --;
						The ole man a-holdin' a life-time lease
						On a quarter section o' mighty pore land,
						Three-fourths of it marshes, the rest of it sand;
						Makin' a livin', as one may say,
						In a sort of a ketch-as-ketch-can way,
						A herdin' cattle an' cuttin' marsh hay,
						Trappin' o' mushrats an' varmints like these
						An' fishin' a little an' huntin' bees.
						Not egzactly, what you call no a'count,
						Though his work, in course, it didn't amount
						To no great sight. The kind of a man
						Built on a good, good fer-nothin' plan.
						But his wife, though she warn't jest o' that kind.
						Strange how many real smart women we find
						Hitched up with a second rate sort of a man.
						Ther's some things in nater we can't understan'.
						But Marg, as we called her, their only child --
						The girl I'm a-tellin' of -- she jest run wild.
						A reg'lar rollikin' tom-boy and romp!
						From the redwing's little ones, down in the swamp,
						To the hang-bird's nest in the highest tree, Everything, enywhur, her eyes could
							see,
						In bayou er bottom-land, sand-ridge er sl'ugh --
						Climb to it, wade to it, go in canoe --
						She't get there somehow; and she's got there, but well,

						

						That is the story that I started to tell.
						Well, 'long with her pryin' in curious nooks,
						She got in the habit o' peekin' in books.
						School house a mile an' three-quarters away,
						But Marg wuz jest bound to go ever' day.
						Ust to work her sums, at home of a night,
						An' the ole man grumbled about the light.
						Said some things, I reckon, he didn't quite mean;
						Fer he 'lowed she uz wastin' the kerosene;
						But her mother, she says, "Now, Pap, keep still.
						Let the child figger her sums ef she will."
						The upshot of it wuz, at about sixteen
						There wuzn't a sum enywhere in between
						The lids 'o Ray's third part she couldn't do:
						An' she'd parsed her grammer book through an' through;
						Had Uncle Sam's doing's, nigh up to date,
						An' Cutter hisself would a-called her great.
						An' her ole mother -- she wuz jest that proud!
						'Done middlin' well,' the ole man a'lowed.
						But she purt nigh took his breath away,
						When she come a-coaxin' o' him one day
						Fer to let her go off to school, somewhur,
						An' she wanted to go a plum whole yer!
						The ole man he balked; but her mother said,
						A-talkin' to him when Marg wuz in bed,
						"Hit 'pears to me, Pap, that we can a'ford
						To let the child go ef she works fer her board."
						An' so it turned out, in the fall she went down
						An' put in a yer at the county seat town.
						With the ole man tryin' his level best --
						Mushrats an' coons didn't get any rest.
						"Hits the ole woman's doin's,' he ust to say.
						An' these varmints have got them 'ere bills to pay." 

						

						Well, when Marg got back with a license to teach,
						The ole woman's pride, it went clean out o' reach!
						All the ole man said wuz, "I'm glad she's through!"
						Then Marg kep school fer a yer or two,
						An' folks sort o' 'lowed she'd marry; but
						There's a place down here they call Terre Hut,
						Down on the Wabash, below Perryville,
						Some kind of a school down there, where they drill
						Folks in the way o' school teachin', ye know.
						Well, nothin' ud do but Marg she must go.
						With the ole man a-grumblin' an' sayin' his say,
						An' the ole woman skimpin' an' savin' away
						An' gittin' up arley and stayin' up late
						To help Marg stay there fer to graduate.
						An' she done it someway, but how, I 'spose
						They ain't anybody but her 'at knows.
						The tickledest woman 'at ever you see!
						An' I ain't disputin' her right to be.
						"Now," says the ole man, "I reckon she's done."
						But there's a place down here called Bloomington.
						South here a piece on the ole Salem Road
						There's a school down there that's jest growedan'growed
						Till folks that know, say, it's about the best
						Ye can find enywhur; an' Marg she guessed,
						When she'd been a-teachin' a yer er two,
						That the very best thing fer her to do
						Wuz to go down there in the arley fall,
						An' just stay with it, till she got it all.
						Well, along last June she got back agin.
						I 'uz over that way an' jest stopped in
						Fer a drink o' water an' Marg says, says she,
						'Mr, Jones, please stay an' take dinner with me."
						An' it wuz gittin' along towards noon;
						An' I says, says I, "I'd jest as soon

						

						As not, bein' it's you," an' so I stayed.
						The ole folks an' me set out in the shade
						An' talked, an' the ole man went on to tell
						How he wuz 'bout in the notion to sell.
						"Ye see, says he, "Jones, there's been sech a change.
						They've ist fenced and fenced till ther ain't no range
						Fer herdin' o' cattle er cuttin' o' hay;
						The drudge boats are drivin' the mushrats away,
						An' my eyesight o' late is gittin' so pore,
						I can't see to line a bee any more.
						'Pears like, it's got so, the marshes won't grow
						Nothin' but farm craps, an' farmin', ye know
						Ain't in my line; an' it's too late now,
						At my time o' life to be larnin' how;
						An' our gal's goin' off a-teachin' somewhur,
						An' we'll jest go along to keep house fer her.
						We've lived here thirty yers, comin' next spring,
						An' it jest 'pears like, we ain't got a thing
						To show fer it all. But the old woman said,
						A shovin' her specticles back on her head,
						An' restin' her work-wrinkled hands in her lap,
						Your eyesight shorely is failin' ye, Pap,
						Fer my part, I ain't any room to complain.
						I count more'n dollars in countin' my gain.
						"An' speakin'," says she, "of our Margareete," --
						An' her ole face wuz lookin' so good an' sweet --
						"A-raisin' a girl like her," says she,
						"Is doin' jest well enough fer me."
					

				
				

				
					THE NEW EDUCATION.

					
						In this wild Herbartian rage
						Is there nothing to assuage
						Just a little of the nonsense that it brings?
						For these fads it seems to me,
						That were brought across the sea,
						Like the German carp, may prove unwelcome things.
					

					
						But when once their ardor cools,
						The professors in our schools
						 May be able to discover in due time,
						That when rightly understood,
						There is something just as good,
						That has always been a native of our clime.
					

					
						Until then I must insist,
						(For at least they can desist)
						 From the use of words beyond the use of men
						Who have never been to Jena,
						But live here in Indiana
						 With a sort of Hoosier limit to their ken.
					

					
						Now for instance, what the nation
						 Do they they mean by "Correlation?"
						 It is mixing things a little, like our teacher used to do?
						 Taking history and reading
						 And by mixing them, succeeding
						In thus making one recital do for two?
					

					

					
						Or Geography and Spelling --
						I declare there is no telling --
						 But I'd like to have these college fellows state
						How the Sam Hill! do they do it ?
						How they ever can get through it,
						When two things won't -- as they call it -- "correlate ? "
					

					
						Oh, I cannot help but smile,
						For I knew it all the while,
						 They just have to let them --" differentiate,"
						And I sometimes have a notion
						To get up and make a motion,
						That we give them corral-tion, small and great.
					

					
						And they practice rank deception
						With their big word " appreception "
						When they try to make us think it something new;
						Why the master with his gad,
						In the days when I was bad,
						 Often gave me apperception good and true,
					

					
						But there is no recompense
						For a lack of common sense,
						And we'll have to wait a little, for our laugh;
						Then we'll gather up the grain
						In a thimble; and 'tis plain,
						There'll be something like a ton or two of chaff.
					

				

				

				
					 THE LITTLE FRAME SCHOOL HOUSE.

					
						Oh the little frame school house that stands on the hill!
						There's a sway in its roof tree, a sag in each sill.
						Its old-fashioned chimney has crumbled away,
						And each clapboard and shingle with lichen is gray.
						Now a tangle of brambles forbidding and dense,
						Fills the pathway which led from the house to the fence,
						And the mullen grows rank in the long narrow lane,
						And its play ground to-day is a desert of grain.
						But I push through the brambles and enter the door,
						Ah! The dust of neglect gathers deep on the floor;
						The rude benches are gone, and the master's high stool,
						Where so often I sat as the dunce of the school,
						Now has only one leg. But the desks that were placed
						The full length of the room, and each rudely defaced
						With jack-knife and barlow are there to proclaim
						The first efforts of many in carving a name.
						Oh how much of the past each rude effort recalls!
						And I hang up old pictures to-day on these walls.
						From just over his desk, the old master looks down,
						With a smile on his lips, on his forehead a frown,
						Half his sterness expressed, half his kindness concealed.
						But the half that was hidden his patience revealed;
						Though his book lore was scanty, his muscle was good,
						And the methods he used were the best understood.
						Thus my fancy goes back through the drift of dead years,
						Until 'round me I see through the mist of my tears,
						All the young happy faces familiar to me;
						But I turn from these pictures of pathos to see 

						

						Another far better and brighter and true,
						Would that I were a painter to paint it for you --
						For out of this doorway an army has gone,
						An army of progress, that moves the world on,
						And up from the depths it has lifted our State,
						Till few dare to say they are nearly as great.
					

					
						There stands in the valley, a structure of stone,
						Far grander, more stately than this I must own,
						That army has built it, a monument still,
						To the little frame school house that stands on the hill.
					
				
				

				
					THE MAN FROM TERRE HUT.


					
						Sometime ago, I think, perhaps, about a week before
						Our school was out, that some of us were down at Ross' store,
						And there we fell to talking first of this, and then of that,
						And having in a general way, a sort of social chat --
						We talked of local politics, and candidates, and then
						We criticised the President, and other public men;
						We bragged about our churches,and eulogized our preachers,
						And wound up with an estimate upon our schools and teachers.
						When some one said that teaching was a woman's work he guessed,
						But another was as certain that a man could teach the best.
						And the deacon "kinder reckoned the new fangled ways they had
						Wuz enough to make it certain that the best of it is bad.
						Fer if they ain't behind the times, then I'ud like to know,
						Why youngsters now adays can't learn like forty ye'rs ago?"
						The deacon filled and "lit" his pipe and waited a reply,
						 And the squire said he "reckoned" he could tell the reason why;
						"If ye lay aside yer prejudice," said he, "I think you'll find,
						That the children that our fathers raised was of a smarter kind."
						Then a traveling man from Terre Haute, who looks for trade out here,
						Spoke up and said: "Good citizens, I don't want to interfere
						With your pleasant conversation, but it often seems to me,
						That boys and girls are brighter now than what we use to be,
						We forget sometimes how little there was need for us to know,
						The old machine was run by steam, and jogged along quite slow.
						But now the world has quickened to a sort of lightning speed,
						And much our boys must learn to-day we didn't know the need,
						Or if we found a use for it, we learned it day by day,
						By the labratory method, in a scientific way.

						

						We forget sometimes our schooling has been keeping pace with years.
						There is logic in our losses, there is rhetoric in our tears,
						There's a sort of mental science which experience has brought,
						That our schools have never mastered, that our teachers never taught;
						The geography of travel; the arithmetic of trade;
						 And the pages of our history which we older men have made,
						 Are the lessons we've been learning with but little time for play,
						And with scarcely one vacation since that first commencement day,
						When we left the old log school house just as full of self conceit,
						 As the graduates from college, that to-day we often meet;
						 And we do wrong comparing boys and what they ought to know
						With boys who thought they knew it all some forty years ago.
						And although a foreign folly, or again a native fad,
						That is little short of worthless it not altogether bad,
						Like the whooping cough or measles has its run among our schools,
						All our doctors are not simple and our teachers are not fools,
						 And the follies will not flourish, no odds how hard they try,
						 The doctrine that is sound will live; the foolish fads will die.
						 And although the old log school house holds for me a potent charm,
						And with love for those who gathered there my heart is ever warm,
						Though it had a noble mission, yet he surely must be blind,
						Wao cannot see that long ago, we left it far behind,
						And our schools to-day are better than they used to be by far.
						Why! our poorest now are equal to the best before the war."
						Then the deacon knocked the ashes from his pipe and 'rose to go,
						And he said he warn't quite certain what the stranger said uz so,
						"For there's honest room to differ, an' he'd arg'ee with him, but
						There ain't no use o' talkin' 'gin a man frum Terre Hut."
					

				

				

				
					 THE TEACHER'S SOLILOQUY.
					
						Is it worth while, I wonder, to toil the live long day,
						And plan, and plan, till the turn of the night? Does it pay ?
						If all a man wants is a supper and bed, it may.
						But shall my dole be measured to me,by each day's need?
						Am I an ox, must I work all my life for my feed?
						Train to the yoke, a few more slaves, for the mill of greed!
						Then die and be food for the worms, and turn into mould!
						-- Discarded before I am dead, because I am old, --
						Insulted with alms by men who give nothing but gold!
						Is it worth while, I say, is it worth while, planning ways,
						Contriving, striving, for others than mine, all my days,
						All for a beggar's meed, and never a word of praise?
						But if a man lacks money, is he therefore a knave?
						Is there not more than gold to be gained, this side the grave?
						Does wealth, as wealth, exalt a man, or its lack deprave?
						Nay! for the greatest, and best, have come of lowly birth.
						 They who ennoble, uplift, and enlighten the earth,
						Pay small heed to rewards, and count as of little worth
						That which the meanest of men may hoard, and the foolish spend,
						Counting, if counting at all, only a means to an end;
						Striving for something to give, never for something to lend:
						Paying small heed to the world, whether it smiles or scorns,
						Whether its gift is a laurel wreath, or crown of thorns,
						 If only the priceless jewel, truth, their work adorns!
						Then if the world ignore, and fail to pay what I earn,
						Is it a matter to rail about, and show concern?
						If only the lessons I would teach, the learners learn!
					

				

				

				
					CALIB SHAW.

					
						Curious man is Calib Shaw.
						Strangest chap I ever saw.
						Now, you people might agree,
						He's sort o' smart like nacherly.
						But he's got some ways 'at's led
						Me to think the feller's head
						Ain't jest altogether right;
						'Pears like ever now and then
						Jest about the time 'at when
						I begin to sort o' doubt
						My own jedgment, he will out
						An' do somethin' that'll set
						My opinions firmer yet.
						'Y, sir! only tother night
						He come over jest to tell
						How in diggin' uv a well
						He had found some queer like stones
						An' some arry-heads an' bones --
						Said it to me jest as though
						Actu'lly he didn't know
						This whole airth wuz rocks and dirt.
						Found him one day in his shirt-
						Sleeves diggin' in a hill.
						And I sort o' watched until
						He caught sight of me and said --
						Sort o' noddin' uv his head --
						"Come up here an' take a look."
						Kep' on talkin' like a book

						

						'Bout the prehistoric, and
						More I couldn't understand.
						Thinks I, "mebby he has found
						Somethin', up there underground."
						But there wern't a blame thing there
						But some old, cracked arthen-ware.
						Then he ups and tries to show,
						That there hummock didn't grow
						At the Good Bein's commands,
						Said 'twere built by human hands:
						"Ain't no sile like this, says he,
						"On this side the Kankakee."
						"Cale," says I, "ef that is so,
						Them as brung it, didn't know
						Good sile when they saw it, fer
						'Taint ez good ez what uz huhr."
						Has a way of goin' through
						My woods paster, one er two
						Times er week, a ketchin' bugs
						And butterflies, them he lugs
						Home with him and puts 'em in
						Glass top boxes on a pin!
						Stays out there the whole day long
						Watchin' birds an' eny song
						Eny of 'em ever sung,
						An' jest how they raise their young,
						Cale he knows it, but I say,
						What use is it any way?
						An', sir, that there feller knows
						Ever last blame plant 'at grows.
						Gethers lots of 'em, an' seeds,
						But the most of 'em are weeds,
						But he don't a'pear to care.
						Jest so's it is somethin' rare.

						

						That is, scace an' hard to find,
						An' not many uv a kind.
						Has his house mos' full o' stuff,
						Reg'lar sideshow shore enough!
						Gives 'em all the biggest names.
						Sacred beetle is the same's
						These here hard shell bugs that crawl
						'Long the road an' play foot ball!
						Got a foot-long name fer toads;
						Dornicks, he calls them geodes,
						Silk worm's nests he calls them cocoons,
						Toad-stools, tree-warts an' mushroons,
						He calls fungi, er fungus --
						Oh! I tell you Cale's a cuss
						At big words, an' gittin' wus!
						But you see it's as I said,
						He ain't level in his head.
						But he's harmless as a child,
						Nothin' uv that skeery, wild,
						Cranky look we often find
						'Mong the folks 'at's lost their mind.
						But the folks do say that Cale,
						'Fore he went to school at Yale,
						Wuz jest rael right down smart,
						Knowed his 'rithmetic by heart;
						An' most allus in debates,
						He could wallup 'Squire Yates.
						But Cale never wuz and ain't
						Over stout. Tuck some complaint
						Like the fever while down there --
						Didn't have the best of care.
						Fever lasted forty days --
						Brung on these bug-ketchen ways.
					
				
				

				
					HONEST PRAISE.


					
						Good, open-hearted, honest praise
						Has grown so scant these latter days,
						 We hardly know its tone;
						We wait until the man is dead,
						Then let the marble at his head
						Tell what we long have known.
					

					
						Though one may win a wreath of fame,
						High o'er the archway carve his name
						In letters fair and bold,
						Still, he must wait until the sod
						Has clothed anew the sterile clod,
						That hides his senseless mould,
					

					
						Ere this slow world accepts as true
						His worth, and gives the honor due
						His well-earned, just renown;
						And yet, in life, he oft must stand,
						With pressing crowds on either hand,
						Which cheer the painted clown.
					

					
						But something more than wordy praise
						Comes to the man whose life and ways
						Are modeled on the plan;
						That be what may his fame or fate,
						 That let the end come soon or late,
						To do what good he can,

						

						Shall be his first and greatest care.
						Ah! such as he, the fates may dare,
						For love shall light his way,
						 And friends shall cluster at his side,
						And sweet contentment there abide,
						 "Forever and a day." 
					

				
				
					OUR DREAMS GROW SWEETER.

					
						Our dreams grow sweeter as we older grow.
						The fancies of our youth fade out, and then,
						We dream the dreams of women, and of men
						But somehow, time that once had seemed so slow,
						Slips by us, and before we hardly know
						They call us middle aged. We dream again,
						But self is buried in what might have been;
						Yet comes the fairest dreams of all, for lo!
						Hope in our children paints in golden hue,
						Far brighter pictures than our childhood knew.
						Yes, dreams grow sweeter as we older grow.
					

				
				

				
					MY JOLLY NEIGHBOR.

					
						The storm had lodged the barley
						And the rain had spoiled the hay;
						 And down upon the bottom land,
						 The corn was washed away.
						Yet still my jolly neighbor
						Would sing so blithe and gay,
						"Oh, it's what's the use to worry,
						 And it's what's the use to fret,
						And what's the use of wasting tears,
						When every thing is wet?"
					


					
						A change came with the seasons,
						And a blight was on the grain;
						A rill ran in the river bed,
						A drought was on the plain.
						But still my jolly neighbor
						 Would sing so blithe and gay,
						Oh, it's what's the use to worry,
						 And it's what's the use to cry,
						And what's the use of wasting tears
						 When every thing is dry.
					

					

					
						Thus be the weather cloudy,
						 Or thus be the weather fair,
						He met misfortune with a smile,
						And never would despair;--
						But still my jolly neighbor
						 Would sing so blithe and gay,
						"Oh, it's what's the use to worry,
						 And it's what's the use to weep,
						And what's the use of wasting tears
						 For joys we couldn't keep?"
					

					
						A sickness came upon him,
						 And I knew that he must die.
						I stood beside his humble cot,
						A tear was in my eye.
						But still my jolly neighbor
						Did sing so blithe and gay,
						"Oh, it's what's the use to worry,
						And it's what's the use to dread,
						And what's the use of wasting tears,
						With Heaven just ahead?"
					
				

				

				
					A TRIBUTE TO THE OLD YEAR.

					
						Ring out the old, ring in the new.
						I 'spose that's what the boys 'ill do,
						But fer my part, I'm free to say
						That I don't sense it that a-way.
						I may be wrong, but I'll be blest!
						If I don't like the old things the best;
						Old friends, old times, old fashioned ways,
						Old songs, old tunes, old folks, old plays,
						Old close -- an' who don't like old shoes?
						I don't want nothin' new but news.
					

					
						An' I own up, that when I see
						This old yer slippin' 'way frum me
						Like some old friend, that has to go --
						It's childish like in me, I know --
						But dogged if I don't have to take
						My hankercher an' sort o' make
						Some lame excuse, and wipe my speks!
						Fer when a feller recollects,
						How generous like its been an fair,
						Given to each of us a share
						Of all it brought, an' given less
						Of sorrow than of happiness
						To most of us, I think its right,
						An' I am sayin' it to-night,
						It's been a good old yer, an' I
						Jest kind o' hate to see it die.
					

				

				

				
					DOWN AROUN' THE DEPO'.

					
						Down aroun' the depo' when the keers come in!
						With its hustle an' its hustle an'its clatter an' its din,
						Engine kind o' puffin' an' a blowin' off its steam,
						Drayman sort o' fussin' an' a cussin' at his team,
						Boy a sellin' papers, an' a shoutin' out the noos,
						'Nother one a-wantin' fer to blacken up your shoes;
						'Taint like any other place 'at I have ever bin,
						Down aroun' the depo' when the keers come in!
					


					
						Down aroun' the depo' when the keers come in;
						People there a meetin' an' a greetin' of their kin.
						Some are disappinted like, and feelin sort o' glum,
						Some a-sort o' wishin' their relations hadn't come.
						The joyful, the sorrowful, the sober, an' the gay,
						Kind o' sort o' mixin' up in ever' sort o' way;
						Lots o' folks 'ats been away a gittin' back ag'in;
						Down aroun' the depo' when the keers come in.
					


					
						Down aroun' the depo' when the keers come in;
						Folks 'at never crack a smile an' some 'at allus grin
						A settin' there, a-waitin' to hear the whistle blow,
						Some a-wishin' they could stay an' some 'at they could go,
						A woman dressed in mournin', another as a bride,
						A banker an' a beggar a settin' side by side!
						Some 'at never looses, an' a lot that never win;
						Down aroun' the depo' when the keers come in!
					



					

					
						Down aroun' the depo' when the keers come in --
						Did ye ever stir a lot o' ants, an' see 'em all begin
						A runnin' here an' ever' wher ez if they didn't know,
						Which way they thought they orter or hadn't orter go?
						Well, that's the way the people is, for purt nigh ever' day
						I go down there an' see 'em doin' that a way.
						It ain't like any other place 'at I have ever bin
						Down aroun' the depo' when the keers come in.
					

				
				

				
					REVISED OPINIONS.

					
						I have had my fling at the doctors
						In the way of rather rude jokes --;
						I have grumbled and growled when I paid their bill
						Pretty much like other folks.
					

					
						I have voiced opinions quite freely
						In language not over polite,
						But I want to take back some things I've said
						And apologize to-night.
					

					
						The opinions we form at twenty
						At fifty we often revise.
						Age sees more clearly through glasses it seems
						Than youth with its younger eyes. 
					

					
						Then I saw not the good comingled
						With the evil, but now I find
						That it runs like a thread of pure gold
						Through the warp of all mankind.
					

					
						And I see through the good, the evil;
						Through the evil, the good I trace;
						And both may be graven upon the heart
						Or written upon the face.
					

					

					
						But I hold to this one conclusion
						For it seems to be sound and true;
						Men should always be judged by what they are,
						And doctors by what they do.
					


					
						I knew a doctor, who called himself
						Electric -- whatever that is --
						He was pretty much of a gentleman,
						And yet one grave fault was his.
					


					
						He had a great passion for betting,
						And I hated his gambling ways;
						But along last autumn one ugly night
						When Hugh Gordon's team of grays
					



					
						Ran off the Bridge at Berry's Bend
						And left Hugh on a ledge of stones,
						Where he lay all night in a senseless heap
						Of bruises and broken bones,
					


					
						This doctor came out and patched him up;
						And I asked in regard to Hugh;
						"There's about one chance in twenty," he said,
						"But I bet I pull him through."
					


					
						He did, and so I have modified
						My opinion somewhat since then.
						A doctor should always bet on himself
						'Gainst odds for the lives of men.
					

					

					
						I knew another, an "allopath,"
						Though he never took a degree,
						He would swear like the army in Flanders
						And some times go on a spree.
					

					
						Uncultured, and coarse, and rude, and rough
						I detested him I must own,
						But remember, I only knew the man,
						The doctor was still unknown,
					

					
						Till I saw him besides the cradle,
						Where a little child tossed in pain,
						And his touch had a woman's tenderness
						And his words were not profane.
					

					
						So I hold to this one opinion
						For it seems to be sound and true,
						Men should always be judged by what they are,
						And doctors by what they do.
					
				
				

				
					FISHIN'.

					
						Spring hung off so long that we,
						That is to say, Lee Ross an' me,
						Got most tired out a wishin'
						Fer the time to go a fishin'.
						But at last the weather got
						Middlin' warm, most summer hot;
						An' the robins all broke loose,
						An' the bluebirds. Warn't no use;
						We jest had to go, an' went.
						Tuck the west road north frum Kent
						'Fore day for the Iroquois,
						Most as happy as two boys.
						Now there's somethin' 'bout a ride
						In the mornin', I have tried
						To explain an' put in words,
						But can't do it. How the birds
						Start in dreamy like; an' then
						Jest about the time 'at when
						The old sun comes peepin' through
						Mornin' mists an' sets the dew
						All a glisterin', then they start
						In a tune they know by heart;
						Sleepy winds 'at kiss yer cheek
						Whisper sort o' low an' speak
						Uv the orchards they come through
						'Fore they come a courtin' you. 
					

					

					
						Got down by the river there ;
						Woods a-greenin' ever'where;
						Ole woodp ecker on a limb
						Darin' us to look at him;
						Ole kingfisher, all the while,
						Dressed up in grand army style,
						Kep' a' jawin' us; but we,
						That is to say, Lee Ross an' me,
						Jest unwound our lines an' tried,
						Our luck o' fishin', satisfied.
					


					
						Talk o' fishin'. Ever feel
						That queer feelin' when yer reel,
						Hummin' like a swarm o' bees
						Let's ye know that one o' these
						Big black bass has taken holt,
						Pullin' like a yerlin' colt?
						Set your drag an' let him pull
						Till yer very bones is full
						Uv excitement. Reel him in
						Jest to let him run agin,
						An' sometimes ye see him break
						Frum the water an' jest shake
						Hisself like that, an' sir, you
						Find yourself a-shakin', too.
						Fer soul stirrin' occupation,
						Fishin' it jest beats the nation.
						Courtin', boss racin', an' base ball,
						They aint in it, not at all.
					


					
						"Git some fish?" Well, now I guess!
						Allus git some, more or less.

						

						Got one sixteen inches long!
						Sixteen inches, good an' strong.
						Leastwise it was on that day.
						Next year I can't hardly say;
						That fish, like as not, '11 be
						Two feet long, er mebbe three.
					

				
				

				
					IN MEMORIAM.


					
						The cannon still rust, and the earthworks are green;
						The scars on the pines are well nigh overgrown;
						The young waving corn, and the tall bearding wheat
						Are growing again where once bullets were sown.
					


					
						The ivy grows green on the grim fortress walls,
						Whose ramparts have crumbled and fallen away;
						The fox, unmolested, prowls 'round it by night,
						The owl perches over its portals by day.
					


					
						The bright star of peace with its luster undimmed,
						Shines down on a people, united and free;
						No foes from without dare dishonor that flag,
						And none are within from the lakes to the sea.
					


					
						And here at the graves of these comrads at rest,
						Gray bearded and bent, these old vet'rens to-day
						Have gathered to offer a soldier's salute,
						And mingle their tears with the blossoms of May.
					


					
						But alas! in the land of cypress and pine,
						Unknown and unnumbered, are comrads who sleep
						With naught but the wild rose to garland their graves,
						And naught but the willows above them to weep.
					

					

					
						But peace to their ashes wherever they rest;
						It is hallowed ground wherever they lie.
						'Tis something to live for our country and flag;
						'Tis more for our flag and our country to die.
					

					
						Oh! Columbia, remember the debt that you owe!
						My country, of thee, may it never be said;
						That ye are a nation, whose people forget
						To honor their heroes, both living and dead!
					
				
				

				
					A RAMBLE.

					
						Piled high upon my desk to-day
						My work will wait for me in vain,
						For deep within the woodland way
						I lose myself from care again.
					

					
						And lost to all the world without,
						To deeper depths my wayward feet
						Lead on beyond the din and shout
						Of busy mart and crowded street.
					

					
						To where the howthorn's fleece of bloom,
						And Judas tree's gay purple dress,
						Spill on the air a sweet perfume
						And blend in perfect lovliness.
					

					
						Across the sunny upland glades,
						Where mandrakes spread their parasols,
						Beneath the arching green arcades,
						Where laugh the mimic waterfalls:
					

					
						And on and on, until I hear
						The hermit thrush's liquid strain,
						And startle from the tangle near
						The partidge from her nest again;
					

					
						Still on and on until I stand
						Beside the forest shaded stream,
						And there with Nature, hand in hand,
						 I wander on and dream, and dream.
					
				
				

				
					ON THE DEATH OF PRESIDENT McKINLEY.
					
						Toll, toll the bells, and muffle every drum;
						Half mast each flag. Let every lip be dumb
						Save those that speak in sadness. Bow each head.
						The nation mourns the nation's chieftain, dead!
						He who in all the various walks of life,
						In paths of peace, or in the battle's strife,
						Or in the councils of the nation stood
						First for his country and his country's good
						Is sleeping now, that last, long, dreamless sleep.
						Oh, all ye people! Bow your heads and weep.
						Weep tears of grief for this umtimely end
						Of him who was, yes, ever was your friend.
						He came not to his greatness in a day,
						But through long years of toil he found his way
						From humble walks, at last, to worthy fame;
						Nor did he once forget from whence he came.
						A simple man, in selfish pride unschooled,
						Loved by his people, for by love he ruled
						Weep, oh ye people! Weep in bitter shame,
						That this loved land of ours yet must claim
						A thing so vile, so demon like, so low,
						That it could raise its hand to strike the blow
						Against our chieftain and our liberty.
						That blow, my friends, was struck at you and me -- 
						At law and order -- all that we hold dear,
						At all we hope for -- all that we revere.
						Then here this day while bowed with sorrow now
						Let each one make this sacred, solemn vow;
						That in this land, this loathsome brood shall find
						No longer room for any of its kind.
						And to our country for the years to be
						Pledge faith, and love, and lasting loyalty.
					

				

				

				
					FARMER JOHN AND FARMER NED.

					
						Old farmer John had as fine a farm
						As ever the sun shown down upon;
						But somehow it seemed it had no charm
						For his sons and daughters, who had gone
						Off to the city to sew, and clerk,
						 And do all kinds of drudging work;
						And some had to toil from dark till dawn.
						 "I cannot see for the life of me,
						Why they will do it," said Farmer John.
					

					
						Old farmer Ned had a hillside farm,
						As poor as ever a farm could be;
						Scorched by the sun and swept by the storm,
						But no one seemed more happy than he.
						 His sons and daughters never strayed
						Away from home but all of them staid,
						And worked with a will, it is said,
						Managed some way the mortgage to pay
						On the hillside farm of Farmer Ned.
					

					
						"What is the reason," said Farmer John,
						"That all my children must go away,
						While of my neighbor's not one has gone?
						Now, what is the reason mine won't stay?"
						 Ah, Farmer John! If you had a part
						 Of that unfailing love in your heart,
						Which your neighbor, Ned, has always shown,
						Then you would see, what is plain to me;
						It wouldn't be hard to keep your own."
					
				
				

				
					AT WARSAW.

					
						I don't live here, an' I can't tell
						Jest why I like the place so well.
						There's other towns where I have bin
						I didn't want to go agin;
						Jest got enough in one short stay;
						And kind o' ached to git away.
						 But 'taint that way at Warsaw.
					

					
						Now, I've been 'round a heap o' late;
						Been clean up through the Buckeye State
						An' into Michigan an' went
						From there to Illinoy an' spent
						Some time in Kansas, way out west;
						An' here I am, an' I'll be blest!
						I aint found any, where I've bin
						That seems to me so much like kin
						As folks do here in Warsaw.
					

					
						An' I've struck towns where I'll be blest !
						Ef it don't seem the folks can't rest,
						But keep a pryin', spyin' 'round
						Until they've sized ye up an' found
						Out who ye are, an' where ye're frum,
						What ye're there fer, when ye come,
						How long ye're goin' to stay, 'an wher
						On this green 'arth ye're headin' fer;
						But 'taint that way in Warsaw.
					

					

					
						To size the whole thing up, I guess
						It's my own inborn laziness;
						I like to git out on the lake
						An' give ole care an' work the shake,
						An' loaf aroun' among the trees
						An' do about as I blame please,
						Like folks do here at Warsaw.
					

				
				

				
					JOHN CARR OF ANDERSON.

					
						It has been long -- so long ago --
						How many years, I quite forget,
						And how and where I do not know,
						Nor by what chance it was we met;
						But I had known of him, and he
						Knew something of my faulty rhymes;
						So from the first it seemed that we
						 Had met each other oftentimes.
					

					
						I see him as I saw him then,
						 His stalky frame of a goodly size,
						His breadth of shoulders, and again,
						 Read truth and candor in his eyes.
						His broad, good-natured, beardless face
						In those old days was full and round;
						No mark of care, and not a trace
						Of furrowed worry could be found.
					

					
						His soul was tuned to mirth and fun,
						 A fertile mind for prank or joke,
						And through his words would often run
						A vein of humor when he spoke;
						And yet at times, when in repose,
						Across his features there would steal
						A nameless something, only those
						Who toil and struggle ever feel.
					

					

					
						And though I came to know him well --
						For with the years our friendship grew, --
						I never asked -- he did not tell --
						And so for years I never knew
						How strong and brave this man had been,
						Against what odds he waged the fight,
						Nor from what depths he dared begin
						To struggle upward to the light.
					

					
						I cannot tell the story here;
						He would not have me dwell upon
						Those weary days, and some, I fear,
						Would count the picture overdrawn.
						Of those who meet him, day by day,
						 But few the simple truth will know,
						Since in his unassuming way,
						 It is his wish to have it so.
					

					
						I honor him for what he is,
						Would love him still, if something less,
						But, more than all, I bow to his
						 Unselfish, loyal helpfulness.
						The world will offer him its praise
						For what he for the world has done;
						I love him for his kindly ways,
						My friend, John Carr, of Anderson.
					

				
				

				
					THE UNANSWERABLE.

					
						Life has its lessons, which we cannot read,
						What good can come of grief? Why hearts must bleed?
						Why the dull earth must hide from mortal view
						The sweetest and the best we ever knew?
						While yet "'tis morning and the day is long,"
						Why hushed forever is the blithest song?
						Why they, whose ways were tenderness and peace,
						'Mid fearful wreck should find such rude release?
						And why, oh why! -- Will no one make reply? -- 
						Must these, the loving, far from loved ones die?
						Could not the shining gates Paradise
						For their sweet souls have opened otherwise?
						Was there no other way by which to prove
						Their courage, patience, fortitude and love?
						We know not, and all questioning is vain;
						The stoic's heartless creed will not sustain,
						Nor give surcease from sorrow Human Art
						Has found no balsam for a bleeding heart.
						And faith is all too weak; too frail our hope.
						We look beyond our sorrow, and we grope
						Blind with our grief, and vainly question, why?
						Nor do the years give answer, tho' we try,
						When time has dulled the barbed shafts of woe.
						Still we may question, but we may not know.

						

						The why and wherefore, here we may not see
						But somewhere, somehow, in some time to be,
						In God's own way, perhaps beyond the skies,
						The discord of this life will harmonize.
						Yet grief is grief, and sorrow will not flee,
						But sits enthroned until eternity.
						And so, my friends whose sorrows I may share
						I know how hard the burden is to bear.
						Yet I can only come and take your hand,
						For I am speechless. But you understand,
						If wishes were but words how I would try
						To offer something that would satisfy,
						But I can only clasp your hands and go,
						And still I question, for I do not know.
					

					 NOTE.-The above lines were suggested by the death of Misses Lula Rider and Mabel
						Ross, two lovable young ladies, dear to the writer, who lost their lives in a railroad
						disaster.
				
				

				
					AS I UZ GOIN' TO SAY.

					
						One day in the Courthouse square
						Some old soldiers, sitting there,
						Underneath the maple trees,
						Traded reminiscenses;
						Told of battles they had fought,
						And of vict'ry dearly bought;
						Gossipped on, until at last,
						As if 'wak'ning from the past,
						In a sort of mild disdain,
						Talked about the war with Spain.
						And I heard Tom Goodwin say,
						"I look at it this a-way:
						Ain't no one a-sayin' yet,
						They done morn'n us, you bet!
						And ain't goin' to; but still,
						There's that there El Caney Hill
						An' some more that I might name
						If it wasn't for the blame
						Ferreign names they all have got,
						Where things did get purty hot.
						Weren't no great shakes of a fight?
						Maybe not, but that's all right!
						Why? Becase the Spanish run.
						But as I uz goin' to say,
						I look at it this a-way:
						Weren't so much fer what they done
						As for what they's there to do.

						

						Sort o' reckon me an' you
						Couldn't brag some now an' then,
						If the Johnnie Rebs had been
						Built o' sech jack-rabbit stuff,
						But they wern't, that's shore enough!
					


					
						"But as I uz was goin' to say,
						I look at it this a-way;
						Ain't no use fer me to cuss,
						Ef the folks do make a fuss
						When these chaps come home agin.
						See 'em come a-ridin' in
						Parlor keers an' sleepers, too!
						Weren't that way with me and you.
						Parlor keers! why, bless my eyes!
						I come home a-countin' ties.
						And I don't jest recollect,
						I 'uz commissioned to inspect
						Chicken pie along the track.
						All the same, when I got back -- 
						Back to mother!--I say, boys,
						Let us help 'em make a noise.
						Back to mother! well, I guess,
						Mother love ain't any less
						Than it was in Sixty-Four,
						An' it can't be any more!
					


					
						"'Y, ole comrads, I 'ould give
						Three yers more if I could live
						That home-comin' once agin;
						Jes' to come a-slippin' in
						Thro' the garden gate at dark;

						

						Hear the old dog sort o' bark
						An' thump his tail upon the floor
						Uv the ole porch, and before
						I could hardly more'n speak,
						Feel his warm breath on my cheek,
						Then jest scamper 'round so glad
						You 'ould almos' think him mad;
						See the ole door open wide,
						Can't see anything inside,
						Jest hear mother say, 'It's Tim!'
						An' feel her a-huggin' him --
						But as I uz goin' to say,
						Let these young chaps have their day."
					
				
				

				
					ASHES.


					
						I wandered to-day to the woodland
						Away from the noisy town;
						And I paused to rest for a moment,
						Where a brooklet rambles down
					


					
						From the deeper shades of the forest
						To the lakelet down below,
						Where the lilies sleep on its surface,
						And purple flag flowers grow.
					


					
						From branches, low bending, above me,
						A bird's sweet musical trill
						Came blending in perfect harmony
						With the music of the rill.
					


					
						But it seemed the song of the singer
						Was sadness, but half expressed;
						And there ran through the brooklet's murmer,
						A vague and a vain unrest.
					


					
						And my thoughts were tuned to the music
						Of the bird song and the stream;
						And into my soul came a sadness,
						The pain of an old, old dream.
					

					

					
						Yes, the song of the bird and brooklet
						Wove 'round me a magic spell;
						And I dreamed the old dream once again
						As the evening shadows fell.
					

					
						Ah well, for the years that have vanished!
						Ah! well, that we live to find,
						Our sadness is often the ashes
						Of sorrow we left behind.
					
				
				

				
					MY NEIGHBOR.

					
						I love my neighbor from over the way,
						For he is so clever and good and kind;
						But I pity him more and more each day,
						For alas! my neighbor is deaf and blind.
					


					
						He can hear the truckle of wains that bring
						More grists to his mill and trade to his store,
						But he hears not the songs, the house wrens sing,
						That perch on the lintel of his own door.
					


					
						He can see his cattle upon the plain
						And the golden grain which his garners fill,
						But the rose as he passes nods in vain,
						And he sees no lilies beside the rill.
					


					
						Alas for my neighbor! his whole life long,
						He must trudge his silent and darkened way.
						For what were life were there never a song,
						And beauty had vanished for aye and aye?
					
				
				

				
					"THE PILLAR OF THE CONSTITUNION."

					
						Drip, drip, drip, patiently year after year;
						And every drop a crystal as small
						As a baby's tiny tear!
						Drip, drip, drip, a hundred drops in a day;
						But only a thousandth part of each drop
						 Remains on the bed of clay!
						 Drip, drip, drip, in slow monotonous rhyme
						Have the builders wrought and counted as nought
						The centuries of time;
						And now at the foot of their handiwork,
						Beautiful, massive and grand,
						 I sit in silence and wonder and awe,
						And wish I could understand.
						What lesson, oh, Master Builder, to me,
						By this structure, would you teach?
						Is it a sign, a symbol, or a song,
						Or should it a sermon preach?
						Drip, drip, drip, in the gloom of endless night;
						And I, whose life is the life of a moth,
						Strive vainly to read aright!
					


					Suggested by the great Stalacto Stalagmite in Wyandotte Cave, which is known as The
						Pillar of the Constitution.
				
				

				
					A PARTING THOUGHT.

					
						Songs have their season, in the early morn,
						 Who cares to listen to a plaintiff lay?
						Sadness, through discord to the hopes new born,
						Is often harmony at close of day.
					

					
						We have no voice for sorrow when we meet,
						For gladness fills the heart to overflow;
						But in the evening, songs however sweet
						Are hushed to sadness when our friends must go.
					

					
						But wait one moment, friends, before we part;
						There still is something that I fain would say,
						One sentiment, outspoken from the heart,
						To carry with you as you go your way.
					

					
						Our lives are measured not by years alone,
						Nor by the plaudits which the partial give,
						Nor yet, by passing greatness carved in stone,
						 All fail, 'tis only deeds of worth that live.
					

					
						And he who careless of the world's applause,
						Moved by a motive, not a passing whim,
						Goes forth to battle for a worthy cause
						Is great, though fame may never come to him.
					

					

					
						What matters it to me if self be lost,
						If that for which I stand shall still endure?
						If only fame be missed, then small the cost,
						A name forgotten, but a cause secure!
					

					
						And this the parting thought to take with you,
						What e'er your calling or where e'er you dwell,
						Our lives are measured by the good we do.
						Rewards are only incidents. Farewell.
					

				



			
		

	
