
   ----CITATION---- 
        Smith, Hubbard Madison, 1820-1907.. At midnight and other poems. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAA9481
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    


      
      
        
          
            
              HUBBARD M. SMITH, M. D.
            
          
        
      



      

      




        
          AT MIDNIGHT And Other Poems
        


        By 
            HUBBARD M. SMITH, M. D.
          


        
          Carlon & Hollenbeck, Printers
          Indianapolis, Indiana
          M DCCC XCVIII
        
      





      
      


        
          Copyright, 1898 by
          MARY E. AND ALICE C. SMITH
        
      

      


      
        
          To my children, by whom more sympathy than criticism will be
            accorded, this volume is affectionately dedicated
        
      


      


      


      
        Introductory

        THE following verses were suggested by incidents and objects observed
          along the wayside and written during the leisure hours vouchsafed to the author midst the
          cares and labors incident to a physician's busy life, and he feels assured that, by their
          sentiment and expression, no one who may honor them with a perusal will thereby be made
          the worse, if not the better. Any misgivings he may have had in presenting this volume for
          public favor have been overshadowed by the solicitude and partiality of loving friends;
          and if he has furnished enough honey, extracted from the flowers of fancy, to fill one
          little cell in the great poetical hive, he will feel that his songs have not been sung in
          vain. Vincennes, Ind., May, 1898.
      

      



      


      




  Contents
  

    PAGE
    At Midnight,11
    The Mountain Stream, 15
    Autumn, 21
    September, 23
    Wild Flowers, 27
    First Bird of Spring, 29
    The Dove, 31
    Ode to Autumn, 34
    Sunrise at Hanover, 37
    Spring,  41
    The Night-Blooming Cereus, 42
    Bring Flowers, 44
    The Mocking Bird, 47
    Not Dead but Sleepeth, 50
    Avondale, 54
    Song, 57
    The Sage of Ashland, 59
    A Memory, 62
    Serenade, 67
    Goodnight and Happy Dreams, 69
    To ---,70
    The Dream is Past,72
    To Nannie, 74
    Song, 76
    Song, 77
    Song,79
    Song, 81
    Song,83
    I Think of Thee, 84
    Come Home, 86
    A Love Idyl--And Moral,89




    PAGE
  To Mary, 93
  To a Lady Friend, 95
  Song, 96
  Song, 97
  Centennial Song, 98
  Song, 100
  Song,101
  Home in the West, 103
  My Little Cottage Home,104
  Excerpts from Memory,106
  Unrest,  119
  Sabbath Day, 124
  Persevere, 126
  The Blacksmith, 128
  The Child's Prayer, 131
  To Lucinda,132
  To Aline, 133
  America, 134
  The Soul is Ever Longing,136
  Thanksgiving Hymn, 138
  Golden Wedding, 140
  Evolution, 142
  Twilight,  156
  Cromwell, 157
  Lady Jane Grey, 158
  The Departed Year, 159
  Cupid's Plea, 160
  Rachel, 164
  To Miss M. J. S., 165
  To Mrs. M. B. Harlan, 166
  May,  167
  June, 168
  On the Death of a Child, 169
  Sonnet, 170
  Winter, 171
  Conscience, 172
  Sonnet, 173
  Cuba, 174


                    




         
      


       
        At Midnight and Other Poems
      

      



    

    
      

      




        At Midnight and Other Poems


        


        
          At Midnight

          
            'Tis midnight hour, a holy time for thought,
            A solemn silence reigns, and not a sound
            Is heard to break the perfect stillness. E'en
            The wakeful whip-poor-will's last plaintive song
            Of mournful melody has died away
            Within the distant hills.
          

          
            Whilst nature seems
            In deep and darkling grandeur to repose,
            And all of earth by sable folds of night
            Is hidden from the view, which could disturb
            The chain of thought that reaches other worlds,
            'Tis sweet to sit in contemplation rapt
            And hold communion with the spirit land.
            For, in this deep and holy solitude
            The baser feelings of the erring heart
          

          



          
            Are stilled by spirit whisperings I seem
            To hear. The flow'rets sweet that gem the vale--
            The verdant landscape, robed in beauteousness--
            The crystal, rippling streams, whose cadences
            E'er fall in monotones upon the ear,
            Alike are from the keenest vision veiled.
            And yet, from soothing influence they shed,
            I feel as if bright guardian angels watched
            The footsteps of each silent worshiper,
            Who wanders midst the solitudes of night.
            Far in the western horizon, up-piled,
            Like mountains covered with perpetual snow,
            The fleecy clouds, "the drapery of heaven,"
            In grandeur move, on airy wings upborne,
            Athwart the boundless space.
          

          
            The crescent moon
            That rode in queenly majesty the sky,
            When nascent earth commenced its onward course,
            Still sheds its soft and silv'ry light, to gild
            The firmament, as if it were a lamp
            Hung out from vast eternity's domain
            To guide departing spirits from below
            To heavenly realms where joys immortal are.
          


          


          
            The glittering stars, that with effulgent beams
            Of beauty and of splendor gemmed the sky
            And sung the morning hymn of time, still shed
            Their radiance from the eboned brow of night,
            Keeping their watch sublime, like sentinels
            Upon the everlasting walls of heaven.
          

          
            The hour and scene invite my thoughts above,
            As fancy plumes its spirit wings, and peers
            Into creation's vast immensity.
            Oh ! what a changeless harmony pervades
            The universe throughout. The seasons come
            And go in making up the rounds of time,
            Without one jarring discord to disturb
            The unison of the connected whole.
            The years, the months, the weeks, and days succeed
            Each other now, as when they first began.
            When we behold all things of earth and sky
            Move on with one accord in endless paths,
            And see the fitness of creation's sum,
            Our tongues, invoking adoration's voice,
            Proclaim aloud their origin divine.
          

          
            'Tis meet that we should gaze upon these worlds,
            As they with ceaseless motion wend their way,
            And to-compare them with ourselves, that we


            


            May know and feel our insignificance.
            Ah, what is puny man, whose life, at best,
            Is but a span when measured in the scale
            Of being? He's as but a little speck,
            Tossed to and fro, by every passing wind.
            If, then, O man, thou still art proud and vain,
            "Behold the modest lily of the field,
            Which neither toils nor spins" and, yet, doth wear
            A garment beaut'ous, and surpassing all
            Thy workmanship, by cunning arts devised,
            And be ye humbled low; and know that all
            Thy pomp and splendor soon will pass away,
            As doth the bubble on the wayward stream;
            "For dust thou art, to dust thou shalt return ! "
            But where shall the immortal spirit rest?
            If not with God, in paradise, oh ! where?
            In death's dark charnel-house, Philosophy,
            Awe-struck and dumb, steps back and offers not
            One word of comfort to the stricken heart,
            And throws no ray of light to guide the soul
            Winging its way beyond the shores of time.
          


          


        




        
          The Mountain Stream


          
            The mountain stream with swiftness glides along,
            Through flowery vales and deep and shady wood,
            Singing in monotones its daily song,
            Unheard within the haunts of solitude
            Of nature's holiest halls, save by the rude
            And hardy but ingenuous mountaineer,
            Who listens in a meditative mood;
            And feathered minstrels and the nimble deer,
            That oft, at morn and eve, delight to linger here.
          

          
            Lit by the eye of morn, all beaming bright,
            Its glassy bosom seems forever new
            In beauteousness, tinged with the golden light;
            And, like the evanescent shining dew,
            Its waters sparkle with a pearly hue
            As they are upward thrown, in foaming spray,
            By trout and bass whilst darting swiftly through
            Its pure and cooling depths in sportive play,
            And bask a moment in the sun's warm, genial ray.
          


          


          
            For there no cruel angler's bearded hook,
            Concealed with care beneath a tempting bait,
            Has e'er been thrown to lure, from cranny nook,
            Its denizens his appetite to sate;
            But, from the early dawn till twilight late,
            Unconscious of the wiles of man they move;
            Each one attended by a chosen mate
            Enthralled by nature's instinct-ties, or love
            Like that which sweetly governs earth and heaven above.
          
          
            Along its rising banks the tall pine trees
            Lift up their heads, as if to pierce the sky,
            And wave their plumage to the wayward breeze
            That oft hath swept mid threat'ning thunders by,
            Making a wild and mournful melody,
            Which falls upon the lone heart, touched with woe,
            In sad yet soothing strains, waking a sigh
            Responsive, and which prompts sad tears to flow,
            As mem'ry calls up joys that perished mid their glow.
          





          



          
            Like radiant gems upon the brow of night,
            With bright and varied hues the perfumed flowers
            Bedeck the rugged bank's ascending height,
            Wreathing with beauty's robe the wildwood bowers;
            And far aloft, within the distance towers
            A mighty mountain's top, mid heaven's deep blue,
            Like a portentous cloud that threat'ning lowers
            O'er earth, imparting grandeur to the view,
            As lightnings flash and dart athwart with vivid hue.
          


          
            Whilst here I gaze on this enchanting scene,
            Where nature is in rich attire arrayed,
            As jocund morning, clothed with silv'ry sheen,
            Beams on the earth, without one darkling shade
            To mar the glowing loveliness displayed;
            My heart grows sad, as mem'ry calls to mind
            The poor and much-wronged Indians we have made
            To flee these hills, and dales, and leave behind
            Their earthly homes, where dearest ties of life were twined.
          


          



          
            Methinks I now can see some on yon hill
            Uprising far aloft, as there they sit
            Absorbed in thought, whilst all around is still,
            As they survey their homes, before they quit
            Their sacred haunts for aye; how quickly flit
            Before their minds the scenes of childhood's day;
            Emotions, as they there alternate knit
            Their brows, or faces wreathe with smiles, display
            Their thoughts, as they in justice' name for vengeance pray.
          


          
            Here each upon a mother's breast was nursed,
            As blooming flowers enfold the morning dew ;
            Here is the glassy stream that mirrored first
            Their lithe and childish forms, to nature true;
            Here are the vales where lovers met to woo,
            When spring's warm breath begemmed the em'rald sod,
            And o'er each scene a sweet enchantment threw;
            Here all their dead lie buried 'neath the clod,
            And here the grottoes where they worshiped nature's God !
          


          



          
            Yes, here beneath the overarching stones
            Nature's deft fingers have with artful skill
            Formed fitting tombs; and here lie bleaching bones
            Of kin who did through changeless laws fulfill,
            In time, their mete of years, as God did will;
            And here they laid in peaceful, hallowed rest
            Till vandals sought this consecrated hill
            And delved within its depths, in quest
            Of relics, at imperious science' stern behest.
          

          
            Oh ! could they lightly leave each vale and hill,
            And burst the many ties that round them cling,
            And blot from mem'ry all that's dear, at will?
            Intruder, hast thou naught but gold to bring,
            To pluck out of the stricken heart the sting,
            Which thou hast with thy hand implanted there ?
            Away with thy polluting offering,
            For it can ne'er atone for one dark care,
            Or tear of sorrow shed in deep and wild despair !
          

          
            O man, thy inhumanity hath made
            Millions of hearts to bleed, and sink all crushed
            With woe ; and yet thy thirst seems still unstayed,
            And kindness' voice within thy bosom hushed ;
            Though earth, for wrongs, with crimsoned streams hath blushed,


            



            And injured innocence hath cried to heaven
            For retribution at His hands, still, flushed
            With hope of gain, thou hast the Red Man driven
            Westward, to find a home beneath the sun of even!
          

          
            Flow on bright stream in beauty and in pride,
            And as the winds which kiss thy face as free;
            And sing sweet songs, as thou dost onward glide
            Laving the mountain's base, and flow'ry lea;
            Thy music's but a song of minstrelsy
            Of nature, waked by the eternal One,
            Who formed from chaos, earth and sky and sea,
            And guides the planetary worlds that run,
            Swiftly within their orbits, round the glowing sun.
          

          
            Upon the flow'ry banks I love to stray
            And drink the cooling waters as they stream
            Along, and listen to the wild bird's lay
            Of melody ; for here thy scenes but seem
            To me, like slumber's most enchanting dream ;
            As here are birds, and flowers, and mountains grand,
            And as bright summer throws on each her beam,
            They all conspire, with beauty's magic wand,
            To make them like the realms of fancy's fairyland.
          
        

        




        
          Autumn


          
            The Autumn winds are sighing,
            As through the groves they stray,
            Like gentle lute-tones dying
            In music sweet away.
            And where there once was gladness
            Of minstrel birds, a grief
            Is breathed, in songs of sadness,
            O'er seared and yellow leaf.
          

          
            The flowers so lately beaming
            In beauty to adorn,
            With richest odors teeming
            To scent the breath of morn,
            Now lifeless lie, all mangled
            By chilling frosts, whose blight
            Congealed their tears, bespangled
            By morning's rosy light.
          

          
            And wildwood plain and meadow,
            Like youth midst blissful dreams,
            Whose sky had known no shadow
            To dim its dazzling beams,
            Have faded in their luster,
            And, where the pearly dews
            Were wont at morn to cluster,
            Are nought but somber hues.
          


          



          
            Alas ! how very fleeting
            Are beauties here below ;
            They but receive a greeting
            And perish midst their glow;
            As doth bright fancy's pleasures,
            That flit across the mind,
            Or music's sweetest measures,
            When borne upon the wind.
          

          
            And yet I love the sadness
            The autumn days may bring,
            Since there are notes of gladness
            In all the songs they sing.
            Although they bring some sorrows,
            That leave behind a pain,
            They tell of bright to-morrows,
            That soon will come again.
          

          
            May we our time so measure
            Whilst journeying here below,
            When in the halls of pleasure
            Or in the house of woe,
            That it shall not be wasted,
            But used so we shall feel
            That joys on earth foretasted
            In heaven shall be more real.
          
        

        





        
          September

          
            September, brightest, dearest month of all
            The sisters twelve, thy healthful airs impart
            New impulse to the weary, and recall
            The sluggish purple currents of the heart,
            As o'er the hills and through the shady dells
            One wanders, for, at ev'ry op'ning view
            The bosom with increasing rapture swells,
            As on the eyes first falls each beauty new.
          

          
            Along the woodland's sunny verge is seen
            The sumach's bending plumes of berries red,
            While just beyond, midst hues of fading green
            The wild-grape hangs in arches overhead :
            And standing near, the gum with crimson tinge,
            And sugar maple, with its parti-colored leaves,
            Add to the forest's robe a gorgeous fringe,
            Which Nature with unerring finger weaves.
          

          
            All radiant with beauty's glowing sheen
            Autumnal flowers of ev'ry kind and hue
            Bedeck the fields, and, in the vales between,
            The wild pink and the phlox the swards bestrew;


            



            Whilst in adjacent meadow, here and there,
            The purple aster shows its modest face,
            And, round in groups, with statelier air
            The golden-rod its plumage waves in grace.
          

          
            Some birds yet linger with their fledgling broods,
            Quite loth to quit their haunts for southern climes,
            And vocal make the woodland's solitudes
            With morning orisons and ev'ning chimes.
            The robin, redbird, crow and saucy jay
            Give answ'ring songs to piping lark and quail,
            As they float through the corridors of day
            From vine-clad copse to verdant hill and vale.
          

          
            Now in the checkered fields the tasseled corn
            Rustles to ev'ry breeze that o'er it sweeps,
            And 'long the furrowed rows, by plowshare torn,
            The yellow pumpkins lie in golden heaps;
            While on adjacent plot not far away
            The buckwheat blooms invite the busy bee
            To come, and sip the honey all the day
            There stored from nature's richest treasury.
          


          



          
            Beside the crystal brook, whose monotones
            In pleasant cadences go murm'ring by,
            As flow its waters o'er the pebbly stones,
            Beneath umbrag'ous trees the cattle lie,
            Or stand in groups, protected from the sun
            By cooling shadows from the leaves above,
            While meadow-larks, their morning repasts done,
            Wake songs of melody within the grove.
          
          
            Within the op'ning glade from papaw trees
            With fan-like leaves, in early spring so green,
            But flutt'ring golden now to lightest breeze,
            On bending twigs its custard fruit is seen;
            And, growing near, in clumps, the blackhaw stands
            With pendent purple clusters thickly strung,
            Inviting roving birds, and urchin bands
            To pluck and eat at will the fruit there hung.
          
          
            In gleeful gambols roam the forest deep
            The frisky squirrels in the early morn,
            And oft, from overarching branches, leap
            From limb to limb, or glean the fields for corn
            And ripened nuts from fruitful bush and tree,
            Which scattered lie among the fallen leaves,
            And which to them, in winter days shall be
            Repast as rich as are man's garnered sheaves.
          

          




          
            Adown the lane, 'twixt fields and meadow lands,
            In unkempt corners of the worn rail fence,
            The alder bush with fruited umbels stands
            And yields to passing birds rich recompense.
            And there, with stalks of purple shade near by
            Like drooping plumage of wistaria flowers,
            The phytolacca fruit, of purple dye,
            In beauty crowns the rustic sylvan bowers.
          

          
            The apple orchard's laden boughs now bend
            With tempting fruit, with red and golden tints,
            While on the cheeks of others richly blend
            Bright hues, the genial autumn sun imprints;
            And hard by, pendent hang on trellised vine
            The luscious grapes, with richest juices filled,
            To cheer and gladden weary hearts with wine
            In nature's laboratory founts distilled.
          

          
            But oh, the falling leaves now oft go by
            In eddy'ng currents on the passing breeze,
            Which for departed summer seems to sigh
            In mournful melody among the trees.
            And soon, ah yes, too soon, September days
            Will pass away, though fondly loved and dear;
            For even now the Indian summer's haze
            Reflects the dying glories of the year.
          
        

        






        
          Wild Flowers


          
            I love midst the flowers to wander,
            Plucking here and there bright gems,
            And upon their beauties ponder--
            Nature's lustrous diadems.
            And to see the blushing clover,
            Yielding sweetness every day
            To the winds, as they pass over,
            And about their petals play.
          

          
            Some are sweet, and bright, and charming,
            Bending gracefully their plumes
            To the bees, among them swarming,
            Sipping nectar from the blooms.
            On the leaves, the dewdrops cluster,
            Radiant with rosy light,
            Like the diamond's sparkling luster,
            Or the twinkling stars of night.
          

          
            Incense sweet at morn and even,
            Richer than from censer swung,
            Rises from each flower to heaven
            As a hymn with sweetness sung.


            



            Bowed by gentle zephyrs, swaying,
            Each devotional appears,
            And, to nature, mutely praying,
            As her silent worshipers.
          

          
            We may learn from modest flowers,
            Blooming in the field or wood,
            How to pass life's fleeting hours,
            Blessing others--doing good.
            Leaf and odor tell of duty
            To the heart, as faith and love;
             Ev'ry hue reflects a beauty
            Like the shining stars above.
          
        

        


        
          First Bird of Spring

          
            Sweet minstrel, hast thou left the sunny south,
            Where verdure springs in rich luxuriance,
            And zephyrs sigh a ceaseless melody
            In unison unto the flood of song
            That oft is poured from hill and dewy vale,
            To chant for us old winter's funeral dirge?
            Or, art thou come a harbinger of spring,
            To tell that earth, beneath our sky, will soon
            Be robed with shady bowers and flow'rets fair--
            To tell of warbling notes as sweet as thine,
            That soon will echo in each field and grove,
            To swell the mighty anthems that are pealed
            Throughout the earth, in love with tuneful praise,
            To God? Too long a wand'rer thou hast been
            From thy dear native bowers, where mem'ry clings
            In fondness to the bright and sunny past.
          
          
            Amid the changes wrought by winter storms
            Thou seemest like an angel visitant,
            As thou art trilling forth thy glad'ning strains
            To cheer desponding nature mid her woes. 

            




            And oft when thou at morn art perched upon
            Some leafless bough, when all around is drear,
            I listen to thy music-tones and drink
            Their melting sweetness as they fall upon
            The heart as drippings from the cup of joy.
            Thrice welcome art thou to thy home again,
            For as thy strains are warbled on the air,
            All, all around in nature seem to catch
            The spirit of thy song, and echo back
            With joyousness thy glorious hymns of praise.
          
        

        

        
          The Dove


          
            Bless'd bird, how recollections crowd my mind,
            As thy sad voice at spring-time greets my ear,
            With scenes and vanished joys, once sweetly twined
            Around the heart, now lost forever here.
            My childhood hours, undimmed by sorrow's tear,
            Again return upon the wings of thought,
            And, ah ! I wish they might e'er linger near ;
            For they are with an untold pleasure fraught
            As if they had, from love-lit joys, a sweetness caught.
          

          
            Ah yes, when I was but a little child,
            With playmates oft I wandered to a grove
            And sweetly there the hours of day beguiled,
            List'ning with pleasure to thy songs of love,
            Utter'd in answering calls to mated dove;
            And yet though many weary years have flown
            Away since then, thy plaintive songs still move
            My heart to tenderness, for ev'ry moan
            Recalls bright scenes which live in memory alone.
          


          

          
            When heav'n's windows were opened and each fount
            Gushed forth in ceaseless streams, and far and wide
            The mighty waters spread high o'er each mount,
            And roared like thunder, as, on rising tide
            The billows clashed, as if in angered pride,
            Thy lovely form peered high above the sea
            So vast, as thou didst through the ether glide,
            The chosen messenger of man, to be
            Bearer of news when he from Ararat should flee.
          

          
            And, yet again, when centuries had flown,
            And the Redeemer of the world, who spilled
            His blood for man, was baptized by St. John
            Midst Jordan's waters, that might be fulfilled
            By Him, "all righteousness," as had been willed,
            The spirit of the great eternal One
            Assumed thy form upon His head, and filled
            The place with brightness, like the glowing sun,
            Saying aloud that "this is my beloved Son."
          

          



          
            Sweet messenger of peace and guilelessness,
            Heaven's chosen messenger, how blest thou art!
            'Tis meet that man should learn thy gentleness
            And love, that he may beautify his heart
            With such sweet qualities, for they impart
            Graces that help to fit him for the skies.
            Thus bless'd, thou seem'st in purity apart
            From earth, and aught save that bright paradise,
            Where angel bands awake their blissful harmonies.
          


        
        






        
          Ode to Autumn


          
            Sweet season of the year, I love thee well !
            There is a sadness in each music tone
            Of thine that binds me with a mystic spell,
            And tells of dearest joys forever flown.
            Thou art, with thy bright mantle round thee thrown,
            In beauty like a maiden fair and meek,
            Within whose breast consumption's seeds are sown :
            Thy tints are like the hues upon her cheek,
            Thy tones the words her lips in mournful cadence speak.
          

          
            Thy shadows fall as lightly on the heart
            As odors sweet upon the senses steal
            In summer's golden hour, which flowers impart,
            As zephyr-winds their velvet lips unseal.
            Thy hues so slowly change I scarcely feel
            Thy elder season, decked in bright array,
            Has flown, and, not till hoary frosts congeal
            The pearly dews enshrining morning's ray
            Upon the flowers, I know that they have passed away.
          

          



          
            I love beneath thy drooping vine-clad bowers,
            Which Nature twines umbrageously, to muse,
            For, then with pleading look thy fading flowers
            A language speak, whose eloquence subdues
            The wayward feelings of the heart, and woos
            The spirit to that better land; for all
            Their tones fall on the longing soul as dews
            Imbue the thirsty flowers at twilight's call,
            As gently o'er the earth night draws her sable pall.
          

          
            With awe profound, within the forest deep,
            I view thy falling leaves as they are borne
            To earth, and over them in silence weep,
            Since nature, once so joyous, now forlorn,
            O'er them in sorrow seems itself to mourn;
            And in the house of death I seem to tread,
            For each bright leaf, from stem and tendril torn,
            Reminds me of some cherished hope now fled
            And of some loving friend now numbered with the dead.
          

          
            Thy fading glories teach the wistful heart
            A lesson wise, if it but heed it well;
            For, as they on the wings of time depart,
            This truth in solemn eloquence they tell:
            Man, too, is born to die and soon must dwell


            



            Within a silent grave, and that the breath
            Of eve, that softly chants a sad farewell
            In monotones o'er summer's fading wreath,
            In a few years at most will sigh o'er him in death.
          

          
            Ah yes, the changing seasons shadow forth
            With truth man's life and death in fleeting hours :
            The Spring is Childhood, in its blithesome mirth,
            When o'er the heart no cloud of sorrow lowers ;
            The Summer Manhood, when bright glory's flowers
            Entrance the soul with their alluring bloom;
            The Autumn Age, with its decrepit powers,
            Whose light has faded to a twilight gloom ;
            The sombre Winter but the cold and dreary tomb!
          
        

        







        
          Sunrise at Hanover


          
            Refreshed by nature's blest restorer, balmy sleep,
            Within whose silent depths weird dreams take life-like forms,
            'Tis sweet at morn to sit upon the grassy steep
            Beneath the trees, whose arching boughs by angry storms
            Have oft been wildly swept, and drink by copious draft
            The beauties of the scene, and feel the cooling breeze
            Stirring the leaves, for sweeter cup was never quaffed
            From sunny alpine heights nor terraced Pyrénese.
          

          
            Far in the east Aurora's rising splendors burst
            Athwart the sky more regal than bejeweled crest,
            And touch the heart, as smiles from infant nursed
            In hallowed peace upon a loving mother's breast.


            



            Beneath, and gently winding southward far away,
            La Belle Rivière, with face bedecked with silv'ry sheen,
            Murmurs its lullaby, as wavelets break in spray
            Along the shores, environed by its banks of green.
          

          
            Through narrow'ng vistas formed by over-arching trees
            Is seen a steamer, loaded with its precious freight,
            Skimming its bosom, and the passing morning breeze
            Unfurls her floating banner like a ship of state.
            Blest emblem of the noble brave, bright stripes and stars,
            Float ever on the shimm'ring waters to the sea,
            Respected and beloved in peace, but feared in wars--
            The hope of the oppressed,the ensign of the free.
          

          
            The autumn's tints light up the woodland's farthest verge
            To-day, and, whisp'ring, tell of changes that ere long
            Must bring a sadness, as a passing fun'ral dirge
            Borne on the air in sobbing sighs the trees among.


            




            The jocund songsters, which in summer's golden hours
            Were wont at morn to herald in the rising day,
            Delay their southern flight, and still some beaut'ous flowers
            Breathe odors sweet and gem the foot-path's winding way.
          

          
            Embosomed midst this rural scene so fair to view,
            Old Hanover lifts up aloft its stately dome,
            A talisman to those who'd learning's paths pursue,
            And seek within her sacred halls a genial home.
            Full fifty years and more now crown her honored name,
            Though scattered are her loyal sons, both far and near,
            And hundreds not unknown to science and to fame
            In pride her more than regal honors fitly wear.
          
          
            But where are they, who in her young and tender years
            Gave strength and courage midst her trials dark and deep ?
            Alas, above their silent graves the whitened shaft appears
            To point where angels o'er their dust may vigils keep.


            




            And yet their work laid down so well performed goes on
            With wid'ning sphere, as hoary time speeds swiftly by
            To wreathe afresh the brow with annual honors won,
            As bright as any shining in fame's galaxy.

          
          
            But why recall the past ? The present stands outlined
            In living characters, and marks the upward way
            To higher life, as surely as the eastern hills, en- shrined
            In light, betoken to the world the rising orb of day.
            To duty's call let all the living give attentive ear,
            And each one try a kindly blessing to bestow,
            And from some blanching cheek wipe sorrow's scalding tear,
            Then we can calmly meet our fate, come weal or woe.
          
        
        






        
          Spring

          Spring is coming, spring is coming,
          With its sunshine and its flowers ;
          Spring is coming, spring is coming,
          With its life awakening showers;
          Then the earth will cease its sadness;
          Loosed from winter's icy chain,
          Nature's pulse will beat for gladness,
          As she smiles from hill and plain.

          Spring is coming, spring is coming,
          With its busy humming bees;
          Spring is coming, spring is coming,
          With its dew and balmy breeze;
          Then the birds, with music greeting,
          Will pipe forth a welcome strain,
          And each heart, in rapture beating,
          Echo back their notes again.

        
        







        
          The Night-Blooming Cereus

          
            A crown-like flower--a floral queen,
            I saw, and on its stem,
            Environed by its calyx green,
            It shone as diadem ;
            For in the night,
            It was a bright
            And lovely gem.
          

          
            Its petals were of pearly hue;
            Its stamens tipped with gold,
            Floss-like, around the pistil grew,
            Rare beauties to unfold,
             In mellowed tints,
            Like rainbow prints,
            On sky unrolled.
          

          
            It was with richest beauty set--
            The fairest of the fair;
            And 'round its crown the zephyrs met
            To hold a revel there,
             Ere night gave way
            To garrish day
            With blighting glare.
          

          



          
            The evening passed ; I looked again
            But lo! how changed, for aye!
            Ah, did it bud and bloom in vain
            With bright and beaut'ous ray?
             Is such the doom
            Of flowers that bloom
            Along life's way?
          

          
            And is life like that lovely flower
            Which spreads its leaves so bright
            At twilight's close, for one brief hour,
             To bless, then yield to blight,
            As death's dark wing
            With shadows bring
            Eternal night?
          

          
            The fool, within his wicked heart,
            And with his tongue, hath said,
            There is no God. Then why so start
            When sickness comes ? Why dread,
            To latest breath,
            The call of death,
            On dying bed?
          

          
            Ah, no, man's inner sense of light--
            The sun, the flowers, the rain,
            The moon, and stars that shine at night,
            The mountain, sea and plain,
            Proclaim that we,
            By death set free,
             Shall live again.
          

        
        




        
           Bring Flowers

          
            Bring flowers, sweet flowers, for those we love;
            They'll brighten often sorrow's way,
            And to sad hearts a solace prove,
            When hope's bright star sheds not a ray.
            Yes, gather pinks and roses red,
            And heliotropes, and pansies sweet,
            And strew them 'long the paths we tread
            To bless the loving friends we meet.
          

          
            Yes, twine with the forget-me-not,
            Geranium and mignonette;
            The gift may ease a weary lot,
            An aching heart may not forget.
            A little token here and there,
            However small, may give some light
            To cheer a soul, when deep despair
            Casts shadows of the coming night.
          

          
            Bring flowers, wild flowers, from shady dell,
            And op'ning glade, and prairie wide,
            Where buttercup and bright bluebell
            And blushing phlox grow side by side.
            They tell of bowers and cranny nooks;
            Of birds which sing from morn till night;
            Of babbling springs and purling brooks,
            Which make the burthened heart grow light.
          


          



          
            Bring flowers--the lilies of the field;
            They toil not neither do they spin,
            And beauties lend and sweetness yield,
            Each heart to soften and to win.
            For Solomon, bedecked with gold--
            The queen of Sheba's eyes to please--
            Whose splendors had not half been told,
            Was not arrayed like one of these.
          


          
            Bring flowers upon each children's day;
            They typify each pure young life,
            Just blooming with love's sweetest ray
            Ere sin has marred it with its strife.
            A holy influence they'll shed,
            To bless and soothe the saddened heart,
            And help to consecrate the dead,
            When loving friends from us depart.
          


          
            Bring flowers, bright flowers, of every hue,
            With ev'ry cup filled with perfume;
            Bring flowers, kissed by the morning dew,
            To deck each patriot's lowly tomb.
            In life they bared for us their breasts,
            That liberty might here not die;
            Lay wreaths where each one's body rests
            Their spirits may be hov'ring nigh.
          

          




          
            Bring orange flowers to deck the bride,
            Who, timid at the altar, stands
            Beside the groom, with hopeful pride,
            The twain, enmeshed by loving bands;
            And let their incense rise above,
            Bearing the vows there made to heaven;
            'Twill consecrate their holy love--
            The dearest joy to mortals given.
          


          
            Bring flowers, sweet flowers, and let them trail
            O'er sacred mounds where loved ones dwell;
            They'll cast a beauty through death's veil
            That seraph tongues alone can tell.
            They emblem those who shall arise,
            All glorified, and pure, and free,
            To meet their Savior in the skies
            When time, at last, shall cease to be.
          


          
            Bring flowers that bloom within the breast,
            Which perfume ev'ry breath of life,
            Whose beaut'ous colors there impressed
            Will soften or repel each strife.
            Then sweet affection will illume
            Each changing scene, with hallowed rays,
            And flowers of love unceasing bloom,
            To cheer and bless life's darkest days.
          

        
        







        
          The Mocking Bird

          
            Come nearer, wild warbler, and have not a fear,
            And sing me the songs of the forest and dell,
            For oft I have listened thy music to hear,
            Which casts o'er my heart a strange mystical spell.
            Too long hast thou wandered away from my cot,
            Amid the magnolias and evergreen bowers,
            Yet, still, thy sweet warblings were never forgot--
            In mem'ry they lingered to brighten dark hours.
          

          
            While others were piping glad music's refrain,
            I've watched and have waited thy presence to greet,
            And wondered if ever I'd see thee again,
            Or hear in the morning thy carols so sweet.
            Through fall and through winter, through sad days and dark
            Thy old haunts were silent, the meadows were sere;
            But now in the spring-time, with robin and lark,
            Thy songs again greet me with musical cheer.
          


          




          
            Come tell me, dear warbler, if tropical vales,
            Through which thou hast wandered, are dearer to thee
            Than native home forests, and the hills and its dales--
            Its wide spreading prairies, its flower-gemmed lea ?
            Ah, no, as I listen, thy notes seem to say,
            A home that is fairer I've looked for in vain;
            The snows of the winter may drive me away
            But with the spring's blossoms I'll come back again.
          


          
            Give ear merry mocker, give ear now to me
            And tell me if sorrow e'er darkens thy way?
            When singing the blithest, upon the thorn tree,
            Is then thy heart lightest, do tell me I pray?
            Or, art thou then calling to her in the grove--
            Thy mate of the summer, which hears every trill?
            And art thy sweet matins the tales of thy love,
            And uttered each morning thy vows to fulfill?
          


          



          
            Or art thy sweet carols in worship but given
            To the God of all nature through duty and love,
            As the beautiful flowers, at morning and even,
            Exhale their rich fragrance to heaven above?
            If so the bright angels, in glory on high,
            With eager ears bending will catch every strain,
            Since the fall of the sparrow and raven's sad cry
            Are said by the Father to be not in vain.
          


          
            Oh, welcome, thrice welcome, dear birdie each morn :
            On thee richest blessings I fain would bestow ;
            Each day do thy songs cheer my heart, oft forlorn,
            And heighten each pleasure and temper each woe.
            Yes, sing pretty songster, thy notes often swell
            My bosom with rapture, like memories dear :
            Thy songs yield a sweetness that tongues can not tell,
            And brighten life's landscape when all else is drear.
          
        

        



        
          Not Dead But Sleepeth
          (To the memory of my wife.)

          
            At rest, dear belov'd one, at last and forever,
            Safe in the arms of thy Savior's pure love !
            Disease with its fingers life's tendrils must sever
            Ere the spirit can mount on its pinions above;
            For we are but pilgrims and vigils e'er keeping,
            For angels to guide to the heavenly goal,
            Where deepest affliction, and sorrow, and weeping
            Will come not to trouble the calm of the soul.
          

          
            Like the meteor's flash in the concave of heaven,
            Bless'd spirits depart from their bodies of clay;
            They come with the morning, depart with the even,
            But leave sweetest mem'ries to mark each bright way.
            Like the dust that is left of the meteor's burning,
            Our bodies dissolve and become as the clod ;
            While our souls take departure, in triumph, returning
            To dwell in bright mansions in heaven with God.
          

          
            We part with the loved one in trust, but in sorrow,
            Though her body reposes within the cold grave,
            That again we shall meet her on heaven's to-morrow,
            Since the One who has taken is mighty to save.


            



            Like the perfume of flowers, in morning's bright glowing,
            Her life shed a fragrance so gentle and sweet,
            That her heart seemed a fountain with love overflowing
            Where all the pure graces in harmony meet.
          

          
            Her life lent a light like the sunshine above her,
            Her heart was as pure as the snowflake just cast;
            And none ever knew her but soon learned to love her,
            Which love was enduring with time as it passed.
            She ever was patient, with heart so confiding,
            Though affliction encompassed and burthened her life :
            Her faith in the Savior was ever abiding,
            In sickness and even in death's final strife.
          
          
            Behind the dear features and all that was mortal,
            Her white soul seemed shining with translucent light,
            And angels were waiting to ope heaven's portal,
            And welcome in peans their songs of delight.
            She left us in sorrow and, haltingly, groping
            In darkness, still treading the shores of life's stream,
            But not without comfort, and sweetest of hoping,
            That we, too, shall share in faith's holiest dream.
          


          




          
            Those heavenly eyes with the softest light beaming,
            And smile of sweet welcome enshrined on her face,
            Again we shall see, when awaked from death's dreaming,
            And the veil of each temple is rent from its place.
            Oh, then we shall know as we know here each other;
             Oh, then we shall see as on earth we now see;
            And father and mother, and sister and brother,
            And friends shall, united, eternally be.
          

          
            Oh, now, that her spirit has safely passed over
            The Jordan of death, to the city of love,
            We know that her glorified body'll oft hover
            O'er friends left behind her, to woo them above.
            In that other country, where life is eternal,
            We shall know our kindred and friends when we meet.
            Ah, yes, in that city, celestial, supernal,
            There will be a reunion and joys complete !
          

          
            The flowers that engirdle the mound o'er thee lying
            Will shed a sweet fragrance and beauty abroad,
            And mingle their breathings with zephyr-winds sighing,
            A requiem anthem for thee unto God.


            


            Then fare-thee-well loved one ! Oh, sweet be thy sleeping
            Till the trumpet shall sound and bid thee arise
            When the grave's deep recess shall give up its keeping,
            For heavenly mansion bethroned in the skies.
          

          
            Since life is so often a painful sojourning,
            From childhood's first budding to helpless old age,
            And 'long each one's pathway deep sorrow and mourning,
            With tear-drops of anguish, imprint ev'ry page;
            Oh, why should we grieve for the friends who have left us,
            In life's fading autumn, or spring's early bloom?
            This thought be our comfort, though God hath bereft us,
            Their glorified bodies He'll raise from the tomb.
          

        
        


        
          Avondale


          
            Again I tread my own dear native land,
            Where ev'ry stream and hill and vale and grot,
            So beautifully formed by nature's hand,
            Combine to make it seem a garden spot;
            And gaze upon my father's humble cot,
            Where many scenes of joy departed lie,
            Oh, I could wish no happier lot
            Than here to live beneath its genial sky,
            Since it is hallowed by many a kindred tie.
          

          
            Thy haunts, dear Avondale, were not forgot
            Whilst I was wand'ring far away from thee,
            For time can never with its pencil blot
            Thy bright and joyous scenes from memory.
            And oft when all around would cheerless be,
            And nought but disappoinment's pang impart,
            I've turned my thoughts o'er life's tempestu'us sea
            To thee, when gladness buoyed up my heart,
            And made all else than pleasure's happy scenes depart.
          


          



          
            But, since I looked so fondly on thee last
            With friends, a change has o'er thee come, and thou,
            Dear home, with deepest gloom seem'st overcast;
            For lately where there was but joy, oh ! now,
            A sadness rests upon each inmate's brow,
            That tells that fearful death, with fatal doom,
            Hath made a dear and cherished one to bow
            Before his scythe, that ever reaps in gloom,
            To rise no more till heaven shall burst the fettered tomb.
          

          
            Ah, yes, dear sister, thou hast passed from earth,
            Our hearts no more again in time to cheer ;
            And as we gather round our father's hearth,
            Where once was happiness, when thou wert here,
            Oh ! oft will flow affection's sacred tear
            In memory of thee. We did not think,
            Alas, that one to us so very dear
            Would pass so soon away, and in death sink,
            And we be made of sorrow's bitter cup to drink.
          

          
            The partner of thy bosom, who hath been
            A stay to thee and sharer of thy ills
            And joys, now bows in mourning to the keen
             And poignant anguish that his bosom fills,
            As grief its dregs of sorrow there distills.


            

            The little ones, which thou didst leave behind,
            Feel much thy loss; but in the One who wills
            Thee hence, a kind protector they will find,
            For he to the shorn lambs tempers the chilling wind.
          
          
            But, oh ! 'tis cheering to each aching heart
            That is now bowed in deepest grief, to know
            That thou from earth wert ready to depart,
            To Him, who plucked from thee life's bitter woe
            And robbed death of its keen and fatal throe,
            As thy soul poised, betwixt the earth and sky,
            Ere leaving its clay tenement below
            To soar away to brighter realms on high,
            Where angels sing their ceaseless songs of melody.
          

          
            Dear sister, though thou'rt in the tomb beneath
            The turf, that soon will wear a brighter hue,
            As spring again entwines its emerald wreath
            Where zephyrs will delight, at eve, to woo
            The flowers, and kiss from them the shining dew,
            We often will in deepest anguish weep
            Thy loss, and o'er thy grave sweet flowers strew ;
            And e'er thy form embalmed in mem'ry keep :
            Dear sister, rest, and may the angels guard thy sleep !
          
        


        







        
          Song


          
            Oh, where are they, of by-gone years,
            I knew and loved when but a boy?
            Their words of love, imbued with tears,
            Turned every sorrow into joy.
            Yes, as the dews of eve impart
            New life to bud and drooping leaf,
            They brought a solace to my heart,
            That calmed each fear, assuaged each grief.
          

          
            
              CHORUS.
            

            Oh, where are they, I call again?
            My cry goes out and far away,
            But only echo's sad refrain
            Brings back the answer, "where are they ?"
          

          
            Some in the paths of glory tread,
            Where fame enstamps its dazzling seals,
            And some in ways, by fortune led,
            Where wealth its golden stores reveals.
            



            Oh, do they ever cast a thought
            Back to the days of long ago,
             When we together oft were brought,
            By tender cords with hearts aglow?
          

          
            Ah, some, I ne'er will see again,
            Whose hearts were true, whose words were dear;
            And as I call to them in vain,
            To memories sweet I drop a tear.
            Like summer flowers, that brightly bloom
            Refreshed by rains and genial sun,
            In passing days each found a tomb,
            When life's bright race had just begun.
          

        
        

        
          The Sage of Ashland


          
            A mighty one has fallen, and a plaint
            Is borne upon the passing breeze of day
            That finds an echo in a million hearts
            Now bowed in mourning o'er the loved and lost.
            Another light, like the lost pleiad star,
            Has faded from our country's sky, no more
            To guide us through the labyrinths of time.
            The great, the noble, and immortal Clay
            Hath passed from earth, and slumbers in the tomb!
            The voice, that trilled the nation's heart at will,
            And stilled the angry storms of passion, by
            Its cadences of glowing eloquence,
            When fiends ran riot in the human breast,
            Is hushed in death, no more to wildly thrill
            The bosom with exultant joy. The eye,
            Whose sparkling radiance, like the meteor's flash,
            Spellbound the heart, as if by magic, and
            With a prophetic ken the future pierced,
            And bared its secrets to his country, now
            Is sealed in darkness as the deep midnight.
            The high, expansive brow, that shrined within


            




            The brightest, noblest thoughts to mortals given,
            Is veiled by the dark shadows of the tomb,
            And bathed with icy dews, that death distills
            Amid the gloom that broods in silence there,
            The stately form, that like the giant oak
            Withstood many a fearful storm, as swept
            Fierce passions by like pealing thunder bolts,
            Alas! reposes in its winding sheet.
            He fell a victim to his country's glorious cause,
            With shield and buckler on, batt'ling with might
            And valor for his nation's good, crowned with
            A wreath woven with bright and fadeless flowers.
            He stood alone, the greatest of the great,
            High on the tower that his country reared,
            A faithful sentinel to grapple with
            The foreign foe, who dared attempt to stain
            The bright escutcheon of his native land,
            Or sound the trump of peace, to still at home
            The ragings of internal strife. Ah! who
            Will guide the ship of state, when angry storms
            Sweep o'er the bosom of our cherished land,
            And threaten to engulf it 'neath their dark
            And troubled waves? Ah, who will gently still
            The tumults of contending factions now,
            And pour the oil of peace to sweetly soothe
            The wounds engendered by the gall of strife?
            Ye daughters of Columbia weep, for oh,


            




            Thy greatest son has fallen! Ye noble sons
            Of freedom let the tear of sorrow fall
            Upon the grave of the illustrious dead--
            The pride and honor of his native land!
            Though envy, slander and detraction tried
            To cast a stigma on his honored name,
            It stands in beauty, interwoven with
            The fame and greatness of America,
            A talismanic watchword to the free
            And noble youth, who dare do right and have
            The peace of an approving conscience, than
            Do wrong and win the guerdon of applause.
            'Though he is dead, his name shall never die ;
            High on the scroll that shrines his country's name
            It is inscribed in loving characters,
            Encircled by immortal wreaths of flowers,
            Culled from the highest niche of fame;
            And, like a beacon midst eternal rocks,
            It peers in brightness through the shad'wy past,
            To warn of dangers on the shoals of state,
            Where kingdoms, thrones and empires have been wrecked,
            And sank to rise no more. And aye! 'twill live
            Embalmed within each freeman's heart, like truth,
            And be a gem in fame's bright galaxy
            Coeval with the cycling years of time.
          
        


        

        
          A Memory


          
            I saw him in the sunny hour of life,
            When health glowed on his cheeks like the bright blush
            That tints the rose at morning's dewy hour.
            His brow, o'er which his tresses lightly played,
            Was yet unfurrowed by a trace of care,
            And seemed, amid its snowy whiteness, fit
            To shrine the purest thoughts that gem the mind.
            No star shone brighter in the milky-way
            Than did the luster of his piercing eye,
            For it was lit by genius' glowing fire
            And ev'ry glance it gave fell on the heart,
            Like gleaming sunbeam on the dancing wave:
            To him the world was bright and beautiful,
             For no dark cloud had thrown its somber wing
            Across the clear horizon of his life,
            To dim one scene of beauty or of love.
            And no keen pang of sorrow yet had pierced
            His breast, to mar the dreamy bliss of youth,
            Which trembled on his heart-strings like the tones
            Of music dying on the harp's sweet chords.
            "None knew him but to love him," for his heart

            



            Was a fit temple-home of heaven-born love,
            And it was ladened with affection's flowers,
            Which shed a sacred influence around.
            But, ah ! ambition fired his breast and hope
            With siren cadence whispered in his ear
            Her witching song, and threw around his mind
            A halo bright, and bade him look aloft,
            And view the mount of fame, where honors beam,
            And pluck a fadeless wreath of glory there.
            Fair knowledge opened wide her golden gates,
            And beckoned him to range her flow'ry fields
            Of Poesy, and from Castalian stream
            Drink deep, while by its banks meand'ring there.
            Entranced by such alluring, tempting scenes,
            He eager sought to wander midst the bowers
            Of beauty, and, 'neath shade of sylvan groves
            That drooped with ladened sweetness on their boughs,
            To quaff the dews of nectar sparkling there,
            Which wisdom shook from her ambrosial wing.
            Joy filled his soul, as from the hoary page
            Of history he gleaned and treasured up
            In mem'ry's urn the love of ancient days.
            And as he delved within the golden mine
            Of science, and explored its labyrinths,
            With viewless wings time passed, unheeded by,
            Leaving no care imprinted on his brow,


            
            Or darkling shadow brooding o'er his mind.
            Oh, he was happy as the merry birds
            That trilled their morning music by his door,
            For no sad thoughts then rested on his heart
            To mar the blissful present, or to dim
            The radiant future rising on his view.
            He little dreamed as thus he wandered on,
            Plucking the gems of beauty clust'ring round,
            That there was lurking in his path a foe,
            Whose deadly, poisoned shafts should pierce his breast,
            And rankle in its depths, till death drank up
            His young life's blood. Ah, no, bright visions filled
            His brilliant mind, and fancy painted all
            The scenes of coming years with vivid hues
            Of beaut'ousness, and joy his bosom thrilled,
            As fame's bright mount first on his vision burst.
            I saw him yet again, but, oh, how changed!
            Consumption, fell destroyer of our race,
            With fatal aim had pierced his manly breast,
            And he was fading as a lovely flower
            That nurtures 'neath its leaves a blighting worm;
            But, like the eagle stricken in its flight,
            "He nursed the pinion that impelled the steel."
            His firm elastic step was gone. His form,
            Once noble in its mein, was drooped and bowed.


            

            The hue upon his cheeks, once fresh and bright,
            Had paled before disease's touch, and seemed
            Like a soft tint upon the ev'ning cloud
            Reflected from the golden orb of day.
            His noble brow was still untouched by time,
            But sorrow's wing had swept by it and left
            A shadow resting on its white expanse.
            And, yet, his eye beamed with unwonted fire,
            And ev'ry glance was like the meteor's flash,
            That leaves us spell-bound by its mystic light.
            And, still, he seemed unconscious that sad change
            Had left its impress graven on his form,
            And all still beaut'ous seemed, for no dread thought
            Entered his mind to tell him that the sands
            Of life had nearly run their hurried course;
            Or that its flick'ring taper dimly burned.
            The future was imbued with rainbow hues,
            And ev'ry scene was tinged by joy and love
            And ev'ry music tone, of hope's sweet song,
            Still in his heart an answering echo found.
            But, ah! the blissful dreams that filled his mind,
            And threw a sweet enchantment round each scene
            To thrill the heart, were soon to fade away,
            Like hues of beauty from a sun-lit cloud,
            And be like a vain mem'ry of the past.
            I saw him never more! Weeks passed away


            

            And spring yielded once more her roseate wreath
            To bind bright summer's golden brow, but, ah,
            It brought no joy--no healing on its wings,
            To soothe the stricken breast--no power to pluck
            From out its depths the deadly sting of death!
            Ah, no, his fate was sealed, and like the rose
            Plucked from its stem at noon, he drooped and died;
            For, ere the frosts of autumn chilled the earth,
            With summer's leaves and fading flowers
            His form in silence rested in the tomb--
            His spirit, freed from dust, returned to heaven!
          
        
        

        
          Serenade


          
            Haste to the meeting, love,
            Within the shady bower;
            The moments fleeting, love,
            Have brought the trysting hour,
            And balmy night-winds floating free
            Now breathe with me a sigh for thee.
          

          
            Like angles keeping, love,
            Their holy watch on high,
            The stars are peeping, love,
            From out the quiet sky;
            And fain on thy fair brow would shine,
            And kiss with me thy lips divine.
          

          
            The moon is beaming, love,
            Through stilly night's deep maze;
            Her light is streaming, love,
            Bright as the meteor's blaze,
            To cheer each watcher of the night,
            And give thy gentle footsteps light.
          


          

          
            The night-bird's cooing, love,
            Her song within the wood,
            As it is wooing, love,
            In its deep solitude;
            Then, come, for thy sweet gladsome voice
            Can make my soul again rejoice.
          

          
            My heart is swelling, love,
            As if its cords would break,
            As sighs are telling, love,
            The love lips can not speak;
            And fain I'd whisper in thine ear
            The sweetest words to lovers dear.
          

          
            For time is winging, love,
            His flight with speed away,
            As I am singing, love,
            Love's sweetest roundelay;
            Then hasten, sweetheart, ere the light
            Of morning drives away the night.
          
        

        


        
          Good-Night and Happy Dreams
          (To--- .)
          
            Good-night and happy dreams, you say ;
            I bend my ear to catch thy words,
            But, ah, 'tis vain--thou art away--
            The heart alone receives its chords.
            Yet mem'ry lengthens out its chain,
            And parting scenes rise up to view,
            And then I hear thy voice again,
            Repeating, "happy dreams, adieu !"
          

          
            The stars shine out within the sky,
            The moonlight o'er the landscape gleams;
            The south wind breathes a gentle sigh,
            To bring good-night and happy dreams.
            Peace with her downy wings outspread
            My senses fan to sweet repose,
            And in my dreams I crown thy head
            With myrtle twined with pink and rose.
          

          
            The morning will the dream dispel,
            But still, in bright and hallowed rays,
            Deep in my bosom it will dwell,
            To guild the hours of coming days.
            The heart takes up the sweet refrain,
            Which mem'ry brings to-night to me,
            And now sends back those words again
            "Good-night, and happy dreams" to thee!
          

        
        








        
          To--


          
            Thine eyes, like night,
            With starry light
            Glancing on sea, or dewy lea,
            In beauty glow,
            And sweetly throw
            A spell on me like witchery.
          


          
            Thy lips, so red,
            Sweet nectar shed,
            Like new made wine, when pressed to mine,
            And feelings start,
            Which thrill the heart,
            With love divine, at Cupid's shrine.
          

          
            Thy words so sweet,
            My lips repeat,
            Whene'er I gaze, through mem'ry's haze,
            On scenes gone by,
            When you and I,
            First knew love's ways, in other days.

          
          




          
            Life's shining hours
            Bring with them flowers,
            Each passing day, both sweet and gay;
            Yet they but seem
            As idle dream,
            Without one ray to cheer my way.
          

          
            Thou'st been thus far
            My guiding star,
            E'er shining bright each day and night,
            And weal or woe
            May come and go,
            Still with time's flight thou art my light.
          


          
            Ah, shall we twain,
            E'er meet again,
            And feel such bliss, from raptured kiss
            We once enjoyed,
            All unalloyed?
            'Though else we miss, heaven grant us this.
          

        
        






        
          The Dream is Past


          
            Farewell to thee, a last farewell!
            No loving word, or cherished token
            Can weave or bind, by voice or spell,
            Love's tender ties which now are broken.
            The sylvan scenes, the blissful hours
            We once enjoyed proved but illusions,
            And what seemed passion's sweetest flowers
            Have proved, alas ! but vain delusions.
          


          
            The heart-strings once attuned to love,
            And to its lightest touch vibrated,
            Are silent as the turtle-dove
            That long its absent mate has waited.
            Days come and go, but with their flight
            They bring no words of hopeful cheering;
            The future seems as coming night,
            Without an evening star appearing.
          


          
            Sweet memories of by-gone days,
            Like meteors, through the ether darting,
            Light up life's sky with fitful rays,
            To leave it darker at departing.


            

            The dream is past, and faded are
            Those sweet delusions fondly cherished,
            And hopes, which lighted like a star,
            Have one by one forever perished.
          


          
            Henceforth, alas ! forevermore,
            Our paths diverge ! Farewell to roving
            Through fairy vales whose flowers bore
            Rich promise of a fruitful loving.
            We part, as though we ne'er had met,
            As strangers daily meet and sever;
            And while we may not quite forget,
            The heart echoes farewell, forever !
          
        



        





        
          To Nannie


          
            When morn with beauty beaming
            Lights up each rosy bower,
            And bright dewdrops are gleaming,
            From ev'ry opening flower,
            Like twinkling stars of heaven,
            As mirrored in the sea,
            When they look down at even,
            Then, love, oh ! think of me.
          

          
            When music sweet is pealing
            And on each zephyr floats,
            My heart with tender feeling
            Would echo back its notes;
            For then I love to ponder
            O'er scenes I've spent with thee;
            It makes the heart grow fonder;
            Then, love, oh ! think of me.
          

          
            When evening's breath is stealing
            Amid the flowers, and sips
            From nectared cups, whilst sealing
            Their bright and dewy lips :


            



            'Tis then, with sweet emotion,
            My bosom swells for thee,
            As gently heaves the ocean;
            Then, love, oh ! think of me.
          

          
            When day's bright hues have faded
            From out the western sky,
            And earth is darkly shaded,
            And perfumed night-winds sigh ;
            'Tis then, in tender yearning,
            My heart oft turns to thee,
            And longs for thy returning ;
            Then, love, oh ! think of me.
          
          
            At midnight's witching hour,
            When nature, wrapped in gloom,
            Seems bound, by mystic power,
            With silence, like the tomb;
            Oh ! then, in sweetest dreaming,
            My spirit soars to thee,
            With richest blessing teeming;
            Then, love, oh ! think of me.
          
        

        

        
          Song


          
            Love thee, dearest? thinkest that I
            Can gaze upon thy beaut'ous face,
            And read the language of thine eye,
            And give thy love no resting place?
            That I can listen to the tone
            Of thy rich voice, which thrills the heart
            With ecstasy, and still not own
            The power of thy magic art?
          
          
            Love thee, dearest? can I forget
            The vows we breathed in auld Lang Syne?
            And do those words not linger yet
            To echo sweetly unto mine?
            Yes, dearest, in fond mem'ry's urn
            Those sacred words are treasured up,
            And oft through life I'll fondly turn
            To it, as pleasure's sweetest cup.
          

          
            Love thee, dearest? affection's sigh,
            That oft in unison has met
            Thine own, as in the days gone by,
            Still whispers that I love thee yet.
            As sweet as flowers that deck the vale,
            And as the songs you sang to me,
            Or nectared dews that winds exhale,
            Are thoughts, dear one, I have for thee.
          
        
        




        
          Song


          
            Although thou art, dearest,
            Afar from me now,
            To my heart thou art nearest,
            Since bound by love's vow ;
            For there are sweet mem'ries
            That bide in my heart,
            Though time with its changes
            Make all else depart.
          


          
            When morning, in splendor,
            Awakes from repose,
            And flowers, sweet and tender,
            Their petals unclose ;
            And birds are repeating
            Their wild notes of glee,
            Oh, then my heart's beating
            With fondness for thee.
          


          
            When evening is beaming
            With beauty afar,
            As brightness is streaming
            From moon and from star,


            



            Sweet thoughts stir my bosom
            Of thee, though away,
            Like zephyrs the blossom
            At closing of day.
          


          
            Though mem'ries still linger
            With love's chastened glow,
            Untouched by Time's finger
            With sadness and woe;
            Yet, dear, I am lonely
            Whilst we are apart,
            For I love but thee only,
            Dear one of my heart.
          
        
        





        
          Song


          
            Oh, tell me not that we must part;
            That hope's bright halcyon ray
            Which threw a halo round the heart
            Must ere long pass away;
            And tender ties of love entwined
            Must wither like the flower
            That was at morn in beauty shrined,
            Yet faded in an hour.
          


          
            Oh ! tell me not that all the past
            Was but a dream at best,
            Too bright and beautiful to last,
            Like visions of the blest;
            And tell me not that holy love
            Is but a phantom thing,
            And will but for a moment prove
            A pleasure, then a sting.
          


          
            Oh ! tell me not that memory
            Has hid within its urn
            A sweet and treasured thought of thee
            Which e'er can cease to burn;


            



            Or, that I ever can forget
            Thine eye, or lip, or brow,
            Or that we, twain, had fondly met,
            And breathed love's holy vow.
          

          
            But tell me that affection's chain
            Still twines around thy heart,
            And naught shall rend a link in twain
            Though we are far apart;
            And that thy love can e'en endure
            Time's cycles flying by,
            And be,when they have passed, as pure,
            As changeless as thy sky.
          
        

        



        
          Song


          
            My sweetheart is a country girl,
            Her cheeks are like the rose,
            Her locks of auburn flow and curl
            To ev'ry wind that blows.
            Her voice sets music to her words
            When she essays to sing,
            And it is like the mocking bird's
            That sings for her in spring.
          
          
            Though she is but a country girl
            With fair and honest face,
            No Ophir gold or deep sea pearl
            Could add another grace.
            With heart so loving, light and blithe
            And qualities of mind,
            Within her form, sylph-like and lithe,
            All beauties seem combined.
          

          
            The city has no charms for her,
            Where fashion holds its sway ;
            The field, the wood, the waters clear
            Are dearer far than they.


            



            The flowers, that bloom on ev'ry side
            And scatter fragrance sweet,
            Bring to her soul more joy and pride
            than city park, or street.
          
          
            But, though she is a country lass,
            Her heart is pure and true;
            Her eyes are like dews on the grass
            With sunbeams shining through.
            Her mind is free from life's turmoil,
            No cares disturb her breast;
            Her hands are brown with honest toil
            That gives to life its zest.
          

        
        

        
          Song


          
            Bid me not, dearest, cease to think
            Of thee, and say farewell;
            For who can break the mystic link
            That love binds with its spell?
            The heart disowns all human sway;
            Then bid me not forget,
            For time can never drive away
            Bright scenes in mem'ry set.
          

          
            I can not burst love's silken band,
            Woven in joyous hours,
            When we through fields went hand in hand
            To gather spring's wild flowers;
            A feeling deep was wakened then
            That thrills my bosom yet,
            And, oh, 'tis only idle, vain,
            To bid me now forget.
          

          
            Speak not, speak not those farewell words,
            But bid my doubts remove,
            And then the heart's vibrating chords,
            Will echo only love.
            And then, though we should meet no more,
            Hope's star will rise again;
            And while dear scenes are lingered o'er
            Its light will never wane.
          
        

        






        
          I Think of Thee.

          
            When morn's bright beams are gleaming
            On vale and hill,
            And nature's songs are teeming
            From bird and rill;
            And dew-drop jewels cluster
            Upon the lea,
            And shed their brightest luster,
            I think of thee.
          

          
            When western skies are fading,
            In golden light,
            And eve the earth is shading
            With coming night;
            And when sweet music's fingers
            Wake minstrelsy,
            That on each heart-string lingers,
            I think of thee.
          

          
            When zephyr's light, at even,
            The flowers greet,
            As they yield up to heaven
            Their incense sweet;


            


            And stars are brightly dancing,
            On ruffled sea,
            Like far-off meteors glancing,
            I think of thee.
          

          
            When kindred souls, in union,
            Meet at the festive board
            And hold a sweet communion
            By merry song and word;
            Or at the altar bending
            My humble knee,
            My prayers to heaven sending,
            I think of thee.
          
        
        




        
          Come Home


          (To My Absent Wife.)
          
            Come home ! The lonely hours of day
            In lazy languor drag away,
            And even rosy June seems drear,
            When thou art gone the heart holds dear.
            Though earth is beautiful and good,
            As nature decks each field and wood,
            And sings for me her sweetest lay,
            My heart is sad--thou art away.
          

          
            Come home ! The golden sunlight fades
            Within the west, and twilight's shades
            O'erspread the earth, and eve's bright star,
            Mid'st ether blue, appears afar;
            But ev'ning's sweet mysterious powers,
            And glancing stars, in heav'nly bowers,
            Cast not the shadow from my brow,
            For thou art absent from me now.
          

          
            Come home ! Though ming'ling with the throng
            Around the festive board, and song
            And wit, and beauty's lustrous eyes,


            



            As they display their witcheries,
            Enliven every scene of night
            To fill the soul with pure delight;
            Yet, even then, amid the gay
            My thoughts to thee in fondness stray.
          
          
            Come home! Night moves apace, and all
            The earth is covered with a pall;
            And even songs from whip-poor-will
            Are hushed upon the distant hill;
            And tired nature's sweet repose
            In balmy sleep my eyelids close;
            And then, in dreams supremely blest,
            My head is pillowed on thy breast.
          

          
            But, ah ! the morning comes, and far
            Recedes its fading, twilight star
            As Sol, with bright and beaming eye,
            Ascends aloft the eastern sky;
            And visions sweet which swayed the heart
            As if by magic now depart,
            And I awake, with rosy day,
            To find I dreamed--thou art away.
          


          



          
            Yet still I'd dream that dream again;
            Its pleasure far outweighs the pain,
            As oft as sleep my eyelids seal
            Though waking hours the cheat reveal;
            For then each parted spirit meets
            And heart with heart in fondness beats,
            And loving lips give kiss for kiss,
            And quaff the cup of earthly bliss.
          

        
        




        
          A Love Idyl -- and Moral


          
            Fair Nettie and lover went riding one day,
            And, whether it happened in June or in May,
            To the ones interested it doesn't much matter;
            But this they remember, while going along
            Engaged in sweet converse or snatches of song,
            The birds in the tree-tops oft chimed in their chatter.
          

          
            Their hearts were aglow with love's mystical cheer,
            And, as Cupid stood sentry, they felt not a fear
            While nature was wearing her robes so beguiling;
            And as they drove slowly along the highway
            They looked at each other but had little to say,
            Though their hands were enclasped and their faces were smiling.
          
          
            The day was as pleasant as each could desire,
            And prairie and woodland did jointly conspire
            To add to their many awakened new blisses;
            While the roses and daisies in shadow and light
            Each caught the true spirit of their company quite,
            And swapped with the bees and butterflies kisses.
          


          




          
            Oh! these were dear moments, when words sweet and low,
            Which uttered in accents that none else may know,
            Not even the lilies which round them were blooming,
            And ever kept looking and winking so sly,
            As if they were asking "the wherefore and why,"
            Until their bold actions seemed rather presuming,
          

          
            For there are some wooings too sacred and dear
            For any but lovers to see and to hear;
            Yea, even the flowers so smiling and winning;
            And had Adam and Eve done their courting aright,
            With no one in hearing, and no one in sight,
            Our race might be freed from its woe and its sinning.
          


          
            The past soon was faded from each other's view,
            And with the blank future they had nothing to do;
            Alone, in the present, they knew, they were living
            And, oh! how the moments sped swiftly away
            On wings tinged with beauty, like halos of day,
            While each of sweet pleasures were taking and giving.
          


          




          
            They drove through the woodland and prairie domain,
            Where the lark's song in meadow and thrush's refrain
            Upon the fresh breezes came piping and trilling,
            To add to their wooings with musical zest,
            As turned were their faces to the sun-setting west,
            When they were not busy in cooing and billing.
          

          
            With hearts thus enraptured by love's genial glow,
            It can not be wondered if each made a vow
            In words of devotion and deepest affection;
            And that was the sequel of driving that day,
            And whether 'twas June or whether it was May,
            They each say the evening was one of perfection.
          

          
            Yes, Nettie and lover avow and agree
            That that outing is sacred, and ever will be;
            In fact they declare 'twas superb and delicious,
            And say they'd repeat it (if allowed thus to speak
            And give their opinions) each day in the week,
            If all the conditions were just as propitious.
          

          





          
            
              MORAL.
            

            Now, lassies of beauty who shoot the long bow,
            And, safe in the distance, can give a stout "no,"
            Beware of close quarters, and words that are tender;
            And you, ye gay laddies, with doubly steeled hearts,
            Who, when "at long range," may turn Cupid's keen darts
            In face to face conflicts, your fate is, "surrender."
          
        

        


        
          To Mary


          
            When first I saw thee, Mary,
            There was a gentle thrill,
            That swept across my heart-strings
            That lingers sweetly still.
            Thine eyes, so bright and beaming,
            And brow, by tresses twined,
            But told me of the jewel,
            That was within enshrined.
          

          
            Oh, then a feeling, Mary,
            That kindred souls alone
            Can have, came o'er me stealing,
            And told me thou art one;
            And, at that joyous moment,
            Dear friendship's tender cords
            Did twine themselves around me,
            Whilst list'ning to thy words.
          

          
            And often since, dear Mary,
            Thy voice has calmed to rest
            The deep and hidden feelings,
            That burned within my breast.


            





            Yes, many a heavy sorrow,
            Of mental woe and pain,
            Was soothed by thy pure kindness
            And all was well again.
          


          
            And I remember, Mary,
            Those hours, though now apart,
            As passion's sweetest flowers,
            That bloom within the heart.
            Yes, though we now are parted,
            Thy spell's yet o'er me cast;
            For in my mind is treasured
            The bright and happy past.
          
        


        






        
          To a Lady Friend


          
            The flowers you sent, so fresh and bright,
            Will add new graces to my room;
            Each petal gives the eye delight--
            Each stamen sheds a rich perfume.
          

          
            I may not read their language well,
            As some perhaps might aptly do;
            But this I know, my pen can tell
            I love the flowers, and donor too.
          

          
            They bring a message sweet to me,
            As they were culled my heart to cheer ;
            That they are mine, and given by thee,
            Is quite enough to make them dear.
          

          
            Their leaves may fade, their odors fail,
            And cease to be so bright and sweet,
            But mem'ries dear will still avail
            To keep them fresh till next we meet.
          
        
        


        
          Song


          
            I know a fair and pretty maiden
            With tell-tale eyes and silken hair;
            Her cherry lips are ever laden
            With words to chase away dull care.
            Her heart is like a spring that welleth
            Forever waters cool and clear;
            For from its depths, where goodness dwelleth,
            Come words of kindness and of cheer.
          

          
            Her form's as trim, her step's as airy,
            As any other lass I ween,
            And she's as bright as any fairy,
            That trips along the meadow green.
            Her voice is like soft lute-tones falling
            Upon the ear, in harmony,
            Or those of merry song-bird calling,
            Its mate in sweetest minstrelsy.
          

          
            The lily's petals may be whiter,
            The rose's blush of deeper trace,
            But oh! her cheeks are fairer, brighter,
            As modest beauty decks her face.
            With lips so red, and eye so beaming,
            And brow so snowy, heart so divine,
            Ah! who could blame, if in love's dreaming
            Man worshiped at so fair a shrine.
          

        
        



        
          Song

          
            Oh ! it is sweet for us to know
            That there are hearts that burn
            With love for us, where'er we go,
            And sigh for our return.
            Then, though the world be cold and drear,
            And give the bosom pain,
            We've but to turn to scenes more dear,
            And all is bright again.
          

          
            How sad must be the lot of those
            Condemned to live alone,
            With none to cheer amid life's woes,
            And none to call their own ;
            No season sweet of joys doth come
            To shed a fragrance there--
            No sunshine to disperse the gloom
            Which often broods despair !
          
          
            The heart is never truly blest,
            Unless it can confide
            Its thoughts to some congenial breast,
            Where mutual loves abide.
            Then it can brook the many ills
            That grieve us here below ;
            For love a soothing balm distils
            The antidote for woe.
          

        
        








        
          Centennial Song
          (July 4, 1876.)
          
            Come freemen, join in songs of mirth,
            To celebrate the glorious day
            That ushered in our nation's birth,
            And gave to it a regal sway.
            Forgetting party, sect and creed,
            And all that could foment discord,
            To-day let us be one indeed,
            In friendly greeting and in word.
          
          
            
              CHORUS.
            

            Let loud huzzas, o'er plain and hill,
            Resound till all, on land and sea,
            May know that, by the people's will,
            We are a nation great and free.
          

          
            One hundred years have come and gone
            Since freedom's voice, so sweet and clear,
            Gave news of battles fought and won
            For cherished homes and loved ones dear.
          

          




          
            And though divisions came to mar
            Our joy, and dim our country's name,
            Sweet peace effaced the scars of war,
            And progress points to greater fame.
          
          
            No titled lord, nor tyrant king,
            Can here dictate what we shall do,
            While we to freedom's cause shall cling,
            And wisdom's, virtue's paths pursue.
            The humblest here may win renown,
            On honor's scroll inscribe a name,
            For glory waits to richly crown
            Each one who nobly toils for fame.
          

          
            Float on, bright banner of the free!
            Thy beaut'ous stripes, like silver bands,
            Shall bind us one, from sea to sea,
            As waving o'er our fertile lands;
            Whilst ev'ry star that studs thy field
            Shall be a beacon e'er to guide
            Us on, and be as freedom's shield,
            Should war our country e'er betide.
          

        
        




        
          Song


          
            Oh, lady, softly strike again
            Thy loved guitar, whose tone
            Melts on my ear with thrilling strain,
            When mingled with thine own.
            Thy songs, like dreams of childhood's hours,
            Steal o'er my soul and bring
            A sweetness as the blooming flowers
            Which scent the breath of spring.
          

          
            Oh, lightly sweep again its cords
            At twilight's calm, sweet hour,
            And breathe once more those gentle words
            That bind with mystic power.
            Could they but ever linger near,
            From love's pure quiet sky
            They'd chase away each burning tear,
            And quell each rising sigh.
          

          
            How oft I try at quiet eve,
            To wake some song divine,
            But, ah, its music fails to weave
            A lay as sweet as thine.
            Then, lady, softly touch again
            Thy loved guitar, whose tone
            Melts on the ear with thrilling strain,
            When mingled with thine own.
          

        
        







        
          Song


          (Written for, and dedicated to the Columbian Boat Club, Washington, D.
            C.)
          
            In liquid light the moon to-night
            Sails up the blue concave;
            While from the shore with willing oar,
            Our boat glides o'er the wave.
            From jeweled crown the stars look down
            And shimmer in the deep,
            As mirrored there, in beauty rare,
            They watchful vigils keep.
          


          
            CHORUS.

            Then hurrah, lads, hurrah!
            Shout aloud with glee;
            With jest and song we glide along
            Columbia boatmen we.
          


          
            With hearts as free as winds at sea,
            We rove the heaving deep,
            And give a cheer for loved ones dear,
            A sigh for friends who weep.
          

          





          
            No base alloy shall taint our joy,
            No sorrow cloud life's sky;
            For with each day we will be gay,
            And ev'ry fate defy.
          

          
            Old age, full soon, will cloud life's noon,
            When lengthened to its end,
            And coming years bring scalding tears
            To ev'ry foe and friend.
            Shout, shout away while yet we may;
            Hope casts before her gleams,
            And beckons on to triumph's won,
            Despite delusive dreams.
          
        

        


        
          Home in the West


          
            Oh! give me a home in the beautiful west,
            Where the day-god in glory sinks down to its rest,
            Where are noblest of rivers, richest of mines,
            The largest of cedars, and tallest of pines.
          

          
            Oh! give me a home in the beautiful west,
            Where valleys and hill tops in vendure are dressed,
            And brightest of flowers bedeck meadows and plains,
            And the birds of the woodlands sing music's refrains.
          

          
            Oh! give me a home in the beautiful west,
            Where the cot of the poor man with plenty is blest;
            Where the grain fields, so golden, at harvest are seen,
            And wide-spreading prairies of emerald green.
          

          
            Oh! give me a home in the beautiful west,
            Where patriots, exiled in the east, may find rest
            'Neath freedom's broad pinions, in beauty unfurled,
            The envy of nations, the pride of the world.
          

          
            Yes, give me a home in the beautiful west,
            'Tis the brightest and happiest, dearest and best;
            Oh! a home on its bosom forever for me,
            For the west is the land of the noble and free.
          
        

        





        
          My Little Cottage Home


          
            My boyhood's home is far away
            Where verdure fresh and genial skies
            Make gladsome all the hours of day,
            And with each morn bring sweet surprise.
            There mem'ry turns, and once again
            I hear its birds and see its flowers,
            As on the ear a sweet refrain
            Is caught from childhood's happy hours.
          

          
            
              CHORUS.
            

            In beauty other climes appear,
            And friends I find where'er I roam,
            But none to me are half so dear
            As was my little cottage home.
          

          
            Each shady glen and dewy vale,
            Each glassy lake and purling stream,
            Recall some half-forgotten tale,
            Which once was more than idle dream.
            The heart's sweet impulse, pure and deep,
            Awakened then responsive beats,
            And friendships sacred vigils keep,
            As love its siren song repeats.
          

          



          
            Dear home, I often think of thee
            And thither turn my eager ear,
            As thought takes wings, in revery,
            Hoping to catch some words of cheer.
            Though time and distance intervene,
            Thy sacred haunts I'll ne'er forget;
            For in the heart each treasured scene,
            Embalmed with fragrance, lingers yet.
          
        


        




        
          Excerpts from Memory


          (Inscribed to my boyhood friends.)
          
            Dear friends, companions of my early days,
            Whose worth and genius won the meed of praise,
            Though years upon the wings of time have fled
            Since last by each the fond good-bye was said,
            I know within your hearts dear mem'ry shrines
            Dear thoughts of him, who pens these rambling rhymes
            To you, as erst his muse essayed to sing,
            And soared away on fancy's shining wing.
          
          
            As sunlight through the parting clouds of day
            Returns again, when storms have passed away,
            To bless the earth and sea with genial beam,
            So scenes of early years with brightness gleam
            Upon the heart, through the dim, shad'wy past,
            To cheer, when life with cares is overcast,
            As memory reopes its treasure urn,
            Where friendship's sacred fires forever burn.
          

          
            The days, the hours we have together spent
            Seem with my inmost being deeply blent,
            And, though many a change across the heart
            Has swept since then, of life they seem a part;


            


            As when in youth through field and vale we strayed,
            Which were in Flora's gay attire arrayed,
            Or lingered 'neath inviting forest trees,
            To catch the music of the bird and breeze.
          

          
            Do you remember how, in smiling May,
            When snowy dogwood blooms and redbuds gay
            Bedecked the forest dells, away we hied,
            To sport within the flowing crystal tide?
            An elder rod, a string, a bent pin hook
            Full oft made up our tackle for the brook;
            But if by chance a better we could boast,
            Oh, how the shiners and the perch were tossed.
          

          
            And mind you when, in glowing summer hours,
            We roamed o'er field and glade to gather flowers
            Yet bathed with dews--the beauteous tears of night--
            Which starlight beamed beneath the morning's light?
            They had no tongues and yet they did impart
            Lessons, that touched with tenderness the heart;
            They spoke not, yet their incense on the air
            Thrilled our young bosoms like the voice of prayer.
          

          


          
            Do you remember how in autumn days,
            When earth was wrapped in Indian summer's haze,
            Amid the falling leaves of every hue,
            In search of nuts, we roamed the forest through?
            Although sweet pleasure danced along our way
            Like some wood nymph, or gladsome meadow fay,
            Our hearts were sad, and oft we breathed a sigh,
            To see the lovely verdure fade and die.
          


          
            Do you remember the log school-house still
            That stood upon the green and sloping hill,
            Around whose base a little winding stream
            In quiet flowed, and glassed day's sparkling beam?
            And too, the grapevine swing within the wood,
            And rude bark playhouse, that near by it stood,
            Beneath whose roof each one, in mimic pride
            And pomp, some statesman grave personified?
          

          
            Rememberest how joyously each noon
            We hailed, and thought that playtimes passed too soon,
            When e'er the mind, engaged in sportive play,
            Was heedless of the passing hours of day?


            


            The eyes, which with sweet glancing beauty burned
            When e'er perchance the teacher's back was turned,
            Spake words the heart alone e'er comprehends,
            Do you remember yet those scenes, dear friends?
          

          
            Oh, then our minds were buoyant, and as free
            As winds that kissed the dew-drops from the lea,
            And spurned control, which sought at home or school
            To fetter with the staid or iron rule,
            And though we daily conned our lessons o'er,
            As wisdom opened wide her jeweled store,
            Inviting nature claimed each thought and view,
            And round each heart a sweet enchantment threw.
          

          
            For when her voice calls to the yearning heart,
            And wakes each feeling as by magic art,
            'Tis vain, by master's skill or power, to try,
            With hick'ry withe, or threat'ning speech, or eye,
            To chain the mind, and on fair mem'ry's page
            To write the lore of statesman, poet, sage;
            For she alone, by inspiration fraught,
            Can chain at will each wand'ring restless thought.
          


          


          
            'Tis true that there were times when we forsook
            Our sports awhile for some new picture book,
            Or fairy tale, whose wond'rous scenes inflamed
            Our youthful minds and rapt attention claimed,
            As noble deeds of daring, by the score,
            In glowing language were recounted o'er,
            Or those that told of wrongs in pity'ng strains,
            When innocence appealed for help in vain.
          

          
            But knotty sums that puzzled and perplexed
            The mind, till it was tired and sorely vexed;
            The prosy sentences in false syntax,
            Which proved for us too oft hard, stubborn facts;
            The hist'ry of each land, and stream and ocean,
            The laws which govern heat, and light and motion;
            And moral codes, that took a tilt at mammon,
            Were often deemed by us the sheerest gammon.
          

          
            Like bird from cage released, with outstretched wings
            Through ether blue with joy exultant springs,
            Pouring upon the air its sweetest strains,
            Forgetful of its former woes and pains,
            So we, when loosed from weary tasks at school,
            And nought to fear, from look or switch or rule,
            With hoop or ball ran swiftly o'er the plain,
            Rejoicing in our freedom once again.
          


          

          
            Or with the hounds, which seemed our sports to share,
            Through field and glade pursued the timid hare,
            That nimbly coursing o'er familiar track
            Defied full oft the eager, yelping pack;
            Or with our guns and pointers tried our luck
            On flying pigeon, partridge, plover, duck,
            Or cunning squirr'l, that frisked in sportive glee
            And barked surprised upon a greenwood tree.
          

          
            And when old boreas swept wood and field,
            And all the brooks and fountains were congealed,
            A sport was offered, and we would respond,
            And hasten with our skates to creek or pond,
            Where we, with hands benumbed and flying feet,
            Cut figures queer, which we could not repeat;
            For, if a slip was made, within a trice
            Our heads, not skates, slid on the slippery ice.
          

          
            Do you remember when, 'neath harvest moon,
            We sallied forth to hunt the sly old coon
            And 'possum, in the wild umbrageous wood,
            As they in darkness foraged for their food
            In creeks, where fish and muscles did abound,
            And wild grapes, and the pawpaws ripe were found ?
            Ah, lucky was the "varmint," doubling back,
            If he deceived our dogs upon his track.
          

          


          
            The many escapades we had in sports,
            Whilst chasing game at night in such resorts,
            Seemed not, perhaps, quite orthodox to some,
            Who never strayed from the paternal home.
            But, then, we never went for fun alone,
            And conscience for such acts could well atone;
            And roasted 'possum, served as we could wish,
            With sweet potatoes, was a toothsome dish
          

          
            To tempt an epicure, or prince or lord,
            When placed well garnished on the supper board.
            The cuisine of old auntie, cook, you know,
            We'll ne'er forget, though of the long ago,
            For then to taste it was a chief delight,
            When freed from book and task on Saturday night,
            As we would meet to tell our exploits o'er,
            And eat the game we captured just before.
          

          
            Some might object and call these sinful joys,
            But all the world knows that boys will be boys,
            And those, who try to make of them staid men,
            Are too utopian in mortal ken ;
            For few of them, on whom a parent dotes,
            E'er fail to sow, and harvest, some wild oats,
            But who, in later years' experience,
            Enrich their homes with sweetest recompense.
          


          

          
            And when in time to cadet size we grew,
            We donned a uniform, of white and blue,
            And shoulder'd musket or grappel'd a sword,
            And marched and countermarched, at given word;
            Bedecked with waving plumes, and trappings bright
            On gala days, when foes were not in sight,
            We kept quick step, to martial music's strain,
            As we charged up the hill and down again.
          

          
            Music had charms for some of us, you know,
            And horn, flute, clarionet and piccalo,
            And drum made up our band, and oft we played
            At comp'ny drill, and midnight serenade
            To please a sweetheart, or admiring friend.
            The mem'ries of those times in beauty blend
            To guild life's journey, on its downward stream,
            And weave for us its most delicious dream.
          

          
            And thus we passed youth's fleeting hours away
            Unfettered, save by pleasure's genial sway,
            Whose winning ways and deeply cunning skill
            The listless heart led captive at its will,
            Unminded of the changes sweeping by,
            Which often pained the heart, tear dimmed the eye;
            For all, as viewed through life's kaleidoscope,
            But charmed the mind and gave the bosom hope.

          

          


          
            But time passed on and youth to manhood changed;
            Our love for former sports became estranged,
            And joys, that once so sweetly thrilled the heart,
            Now seemed to be of mem'ry but a part,
            Like some dear, cherished dream of early love,
            Which fancy in its haunts of beauty wove,
            Whose glowing colors kissed the plastic mind
            And left their impress there in brightness shrined.
          

          
            No more the ball or marble gave delight;
            The chase and drill were now neglected quite,
            And things that once with pleasure's ray could warm
            The heart, and round it cast a witching charm,
            No more the bent of inclination swayed,
            Though in their bright accustomed garb arrayed;
            For mind now claimed its mission to fulfill,
            And make the passions subject to the will.
          

          
            Neglected learning, now no longer deemed
            The phantom that the youthful fancy dreamed,
            Was to the eager mind a jewel bright,
            As wisdom shed its rays of glowing light,
            And bade us from its crystal fount drink deep,
            Where thought its richest, brightest trophies reap;
            Or, pointing to fair nature's book, outspread,
            Bade us its many golden pages read.
          

          


          
            For there the vale with its unnumbered flowers--
            The streams that sing away day's shining hours--
            The groves, amid whose boughs and trembling leaves
            The wind its sweetest songs of music weaves;
            The mountains tow'ring midst ethereal space--
            The ocean roaring at its rock-bound base,
             And sun, and moon, and stars are pages bright
            That thrilled the heart with ecstasy's delight.
          

          
            Yes, as the mind, expanding, drank the lore
            From learning's fount, it thirsted still the more,
            As in the yearning soul were quickly wrought
            New hopes, and aims, inborn of heavenly thought;
            For, if we looked up to the sky above,
            Eternal wisdom there spake words of love;
            And, if we looked to earth and seas below,
            Eternal light crowned all with lustrous glow.
          

          
            Sweet hours of life, dear pictures of the past !
            Like bright and softened hues that overcast
            The sky, when long the sun has sunk to rest
            And kissed the ocean of the distant west,
            Ye shine effulgent on the wistful eye,
            As memory relights youth's fading sky,
            And voices, that have long been hushed and still,
            Echo again, to make the heart-strings thrill.
          


          


          
            But ah, dear friends, although 'tis sweet at times
            To look within the past, as its sweet chimes
            Re-echo in the heart, as erst they rang,
            When hope in dulcet tones its music sang;
            Yet there are scenes of sadness pictured there
            That call up oft the sympathetic tear,
            As some forgotten tone, or word, or look
            Is then recalled from mem'ry's hoarded book.
          

          
            Yes, friends and pledged companions of my youth,
            Whose deeds were noble, and whose words were truth,
            Ere life's zenith was reached received death's doom,
            And slumber now, alas ! within the tomb.
            Earth seemed to them all beautiful and bright,
            And fancy robed each passing scene with light,
            But oh ! how vain the thought of length of years,
            Since hope's blest star but rose to set in tears.
          

          
            Long, unreturning years, have passed away
            Since then, and left us but their hallowed clay,
            Whilst life's realities, midst light and shade,
            Upon our hearts, for weal or woe, have made
            Impressions strong as life; and yet we still
            Are striving to ascend that rugged hill,
            Whose summit eager thousands toil to gain
            Through life, but often toil, alas ! in vain.

          
          

          
            But ever let our aims be good and high,
            Undaunted by the troubles rolling by,
            Though they be many and full often leave
            A sting within the heart, to sorely grieve,
            If we would reap a harvest full and rich,
            And have our names placed in the envied niche
            Of fame, and be remembered in the years
            To come, when life's last spark is dimmed by tears.
          

          
            Yet, if we'd gain a name of wide renown,
            We must be good, as great, since virtue's crown
            Must give a setting, like the dome of night
            To stars, or else, though shrined in dazzling light
            Enough to win the world's admiring gaze,
            With none too famed to give it fulsome praise,
            The ages will its bright effulgence mar
            Until, to human sight, 'tis lost like pleiad star.
          

          
            Still let us onward press with high resolve,
            For seeming hills that tow'r aloft dissolve
            Before the iron will, as dew-drops bright
            Exhaled at kiss of morning's genial light;
            The goal shines in the distance far, 'tis true,
            But those who perseveringly pursue
            Its paths, though darkling shadows overcast
            The way, may gain some glitt'ring prize at last.
          


          

          
            Receive this lay, in idle moments penned,
            As a memento from an absent friend,
            Who still remembers and esteems you now,
            As when in youth we plighted loving vow;
            Heaven's richest blessings rest on every one,
            And fortune light each pathway with its sun,
            And love, and peace, and plenty crown each board,
            Are boons, I crave for you, as worth's reward.
          
        

        


        
          Unrest


          
            Though we possess the gems of earth and seas,
            There is implanted in the human breast
            A burning thirst for something more than these;
            For in its depths the feeling of unrest
            Struggles, for aye, to keep it still unblest.
            The cup of bliss sparkles before our eyes,
            But, ere unto the eager lips 'tis pressed,
            It vanishes, as do the rainbow dyes,
            Which deck with beauty's robe the bright cerulean skies.
          
          
            Alluring hope, blest messenger of thought,
            Bears us along our way on shining wings,
            And paints, with colors bright from fancy caught,
            The future, and her song so sweetly sings,
            That oft we heed not woes which sorrow brings.
            Yet, as we journey onward to life's goal,
            We often feel sad disappointment's stings;
            And learn that earth can not pure joys control,
            Or fruitage yield to satisfy the longing soul.
          


          

          
            In search of happiness we onward press,
            From childhood's early dawn, when all seems bright
            As sunny springtime, in its loveliness,
            Till age creeps on insensibly, with blight,
            And crowns the trembling head with silv'ry white,
            And yet desire is still unsatisfied;
            And still we onward go, till death's dark night
            Sweeps o'er us with its vast, resistless tide,
            And bears us to that shore--that world unseen, untried.
          

          
            Go to the young, in life's bright sunny hour
            Of love, as they from joy to joy e'er flee,
            Like butterflies, that flit from flower to flower,
            Sipping their nectared dews in ecstasy,
            And their each wild and restless spirit see.
            Although upon the snowy brow dark care
            Has set not yet its signet there, yet we
            Can mark a thirst for something in each air
            Which earth has failed to quench with pleasures sweet and fair.
          


          


          
            Go to the soldier, who on battlefield
            Was foremost in the ranks, amid the fight,
            Whose valiant breast was freedom's noble shield ;
            Whose name is beaming with the shining light
            Of glory, won by daring deeds and might,
            And ask if in his breast contentment dwells;
            And he will say, though life is sweet and bright,
            Yet oft a something to me whisp'ring tells
            I am unblest, though oft my heart with rapture swells.
          

          
            Go to the artist, as he deftly throws
            His various colors, with a cunning hand,
            On canvas rough, till it with beauty glows
            And seems a thing of life, from fairy land,
            And men liken his brush to magic wand;
            Or when midst nature's haunts by flowers and streams,
            He sketches vale,and cloud,and mountain grand,
            And ask if in his heart pure joy e'er gleams,
            And he will say, life's pleasures are as fading dreams.
          

          
            Go to the poet, who hath honors won,
            Whose brow is circled with a fadeless wreath,
            Whose name, emblazoned by fame's glowing sun,
            Shall even live when he shall sink beneath
            The troubled waves of time, in chilly death;


            

            And ask him if contentment fills his breast,
            And he'll reply that fame can not bequeath
            Pure joy, or give the troubled spirit rest;
            For something o'er it broods to keep it still un- blest.
          

          
            Go to the statesman of world-wide renown,
            In jurisprudence deeply learned and great;
            Whose merits won for him the ermine gown,
            And who has guided well the ship of state,
            Where other pilots met disastrous fate,
            And ask him if his heart is satisfied,
            And he will say, though blessed with high estate
            And wealth and honor, these with pomp and pride
            Bring not a joy that will eternally abide.
          

          
            Go to the aged man upon the brink
            Of vast eternity's unfathomed deep,
            With tottering steps, ere life's frail viewless link
            Is cut, that holds him o'er the dizzy steep ;
            And ask him if he's blest, and he will weep,
            And say, "all's vanity " that earth can give--
            That there is something in the breast to keep
            Us longing for pure pleasures whilst we live,
            Though we earth's brightest honors, richest gifts receive.
          


          

          
            Then, as we vainly search for bliss through life,
            Oh ! what is that which whispers in the ear
            The Siren song of hope, to calm each strife
            Within the soul, when it is lone and drear?
            Oh ! is it not some spirit hovering near,
            Descended from God's shining throne on high,
            To woo us to a more congenial sphere,
            Where bliss is pure, and sweetest harmony
            Shall sound its joyous strains throughout eternity ?
          

          
            My Father, God, who madest the earth and sea,
            And all the planetary worlds above,
            And guid'st each in its boundless course, to Thee
            I call. Oh ! touch my bosom with thy love,
            And let it e'er its deepest fountains move,
            Then I shall cease for earthly joys to yearn :
            And let my restless spirit, like the dove
            Weary with flight o'er trackless flood, return
            To thee, the hav'n of rest, where it shall cease to mourn.
          

        
        






        
          Sabbath Day


          
            On viewless wings time flies apace,
            To measure up its round of years ;
            Another week has run its race
            With all its hopes and joys and tears,
            But six days' toil and weariness
            Bring restful stops, along life's way ;
            For God the seventh one did bless,
            And called it holy, Sabbath day.
          

          
            The sounds of labor's tools are heard
            No more to ring upon the air,
            And nothing but the song of bird
            Awakes the silence anywhere.
            And with the morning's gleaming light,
            Which gives to earth its brightest ray,
            All nature seems as stilly night,
            Upon this holy, Sabbath day.
          

          
            But hark ! now sound soft music notes
            That make the bosom gently swell,
            And drive from it all earthly thoughts;
            Oh ! 'tis the chiming Sabbath bell.


            

            It calls for mortals now to meet,
            And unto God their tribute pay,
            By humble prayer and praises sweet,
            Upon this holy, Sabbath day.
          

          
            A something on this day oft woos
            The soul from earth apart,
            And ev'ry passion base subdues,
            That rises in the restless heart.
            Is it from heav'nly courts above,
            That doth each human being sway,
            And fill the soul with joy and love,
            Upon this holy, Sabbath day ?
          

        
        









        
          Persevere

          
            With the day be up and doing !
            Though we may not earth control,
            Life hath objects worth pursuing--
            Onward press toward the goal.
          

          
            Grieve not at imagined sorrow,
            Strive to reach the mind's ideal;
            Not a trouble ever borrow--
            Care enough we have that's real.
          

          
            Never waste an hour in fretting;
            O'er sad failures never brood;
            Let the mind, heart-griefs forgetting,
            Treasure only what is good.
          

          
            Though be lost each undertaking,
            And be banished fortune's smile,
            Still be firm, ne'er, ne'er forsaking
            Paths of virtue, truth, the while.
          


          

          
            If thou wouldst ascend the mountain
            Where the flowers of glory blow,
            Look not back upon the fountain
            Lying at its base below.
          

          
            View the golden fields of science ;
            Wisdom there her sweets distils;
            Perseverance, self-reliance
            Conquer what the heart e'er wills.
          
          
            Though the spider oft be thwarted
            He his silken woof doth weave;
            Learn from this, ye feeble hearted,
            Ne'er to falter--ne'er to grieve.
          

          
            Clouds of darkness oft may hover
            Round life's path its bliss to mar;
            Be of cheer, they will pass over,
            Then will shine thy beacon star.
          

          
            Hope thy heart will soothe and strengthen,
            Whilst ye toil through weary hours;
            Wisdom's path, 'tis true, may lengthen,
            Yet its way is strewn with flowers.
          

        
        


        
          The Blacksmith


          
            With an arm of might,
            At the dawn of light,
            The blacksmith hies to his shop away ;
            To labor till
            The whip-poor-will
            At ev'ning sings her vesper lay.
          

          
            The bellows blow
            And the coals soon glow,
            Like the dazzling rays of the morning sun;
            The huge sledge swings,
            And the anvil rings,
            For the daily task is now begun.
          

          
            The sparks as bright
            As the meteor's light
            From the vivid metal swiftly fly ;
            Whilst wreathes of smoke
            From the burning coke
            In curling columns rise on high.
          


          
          
            List ! list, the peal,
            As on the steel
            The hammers swiftly fall with might,
            Like clashing swords
            When army hordes
            Contending meet in deadly fight.
          
          
            Though on his brow
            The sweat stands now,
            He heeds it not but toils away,
            Since God has said,
            Man's daily bread
            By labor shall be gained each day.
          
          
            The world may sneer,
            And cast a leer
            At the sooty smith, whilst passing by;
            But what cares he
            With a heart as free
            As the winds that bear the smoke on high?
          

          
            'Tis not the shade
            Of man, or trade,
            Which he labors at, that gives him worth;
            But heart and mind,
            Which stand behind,
            That give him greatness on the earth.
          



          
          
            No specters grim
            Appear to him,
            At night, to mar his sweet repose ;
            For in his mind
            Blessed peace is shrined,
            And on his cheek health's hue e'er glows.
          

          
            As thus he toils,
            Life's sad turmoils
            Are things to him as light as air ;
            For no thoughts rest
            Within his breast,
            But those which hope and love bring there.
          
        

        

        
          The Child's Prayer


          
            Father in heaven, whose watchful eye
            Marketh the little sparrow's fall;
            Whose ear heareth the raven's cry,
            To thee an humble child would call.
            Oh ! listen to my simple prayer
            And watch me with thy heavenly care.
          

          
            Oh, let my footsteps never stray
            From duty's path of love and truth;
            A thousand charms bestrew life's way
            To lead astray the heart of youth,
            And, if thy hand should fail to shield,
            My heart will to the tempter yield.
          

          
            But, by the counsels of thy will,
            Oh ! guide my wandering feet through life ;
            Thy rod and staff comfort me still,
            Midst ev'ry sorrow, woe and strife;
            And, when each earthly tie is riven,
            Oh ! Father own me thine in heaven.
          

        
        

        
          To Lucinda

          (A New Year's Wish.)
          
            I wish thee, friend, a bright New Year !
            May it be passed without a tear,
            A sigh, a woe or wish in vain,
            Or aught to give thy bosom pain.
            And when thy joys on earth have fled,
            And all thy days of life be sped,
            May peace unto thy soul be given
            And angels welcome thee to heaven.
          
        

        










        
          To Aline

          (On Her Wedding.)
          
            Just in the op'ning bloom of thy young life,
            With heart so full of faith and love,
            While standing on the verge 'twixt maid and wife,
            I crave for thee a blessing from above.
            May sorrow never cast its sombre wing
            Athwart thy path, to dim a joyous day,
            Or leave within thy bosom one keen sting,
            But brightest sunshine ever light thy way;
            And heaven bestrew thy home with love's sweet flowers,
            To cheer and make more blest life's happy hours.
          

        
        

        
          America


          
            America, home of the free and brave,
            Uncursed by tyrant, serf, or slave,
            All hail ! On thee we look with love and pride,
            Where liberty and genius, side by side,
            Have dwelt, and wrought, until with one acclaim,
            The world awards to thee the crown of fame.
          

          
            Here worth receives always a just regard,
            And labor reaps its honored, sure reward;
            Here education drops its valued store,
            Alike at hovel and palatial door ;
            And he who runs may read, and understand,
            If he but use the means at his command.
          

          
            The seeds here sown, in learning's genial field,
            If cultivated, will rich harvest yield
            Of fruits, both fair and luscious to the taste,
            To cheer amid the gloom of Eden's waste,
            And beaut'ous pictures once again recall
            That lighted up its bowers before the Fall.
          

          
            Time was, within the far and distant past,
            When ignorance its galling fetters cast
            Around the mind, and learning seemed to dwell
            Alone in palace, or in cloistered cell.
            Then crime and superstition stalked abroad,
            Unharmed by man, unpunished save by God.
          


          

          
            But through the clouds of darkness that o'erhung
            The world, science its lights of radiance flung,
            Melting the manacles that did enchain,
            And man stepped forth a freeman once again,
            With naught to hinder or his progress stay,
            When pluck and will and genius lead the way.
          

          
            And, yet, although exalted in our land,
            We now before the world as sovereigns stand,
            And fame is quite within the reach of all,
            Who would to her in wooing accents call,
            For those, alone, success impatient waits,
            Who would with effort open wide her gates.
          

          
            With progress thy triumphal car sweeps on
            Through cycling time, ladened with trophies won
            In life's great battle, and none can withstand
            Thy steppings, or escape thy plastic hand;
            And art and nature own thy regal sway,
            And with their choicest gifts bestrew thy way.
          

          
            Oh, be for thee, the pleasing task and aim
            To re-enkindle Liberty's bright flame,
            Till it shall rise, like incense to the sky,
            The mind to light, the heart to purify;
            And all mankind in loving harmony
            Shall live, and in their pristine glory be.
          
        
        

        
          The Soul is Ever Longing

          
            The soul is ever longing,
            Each weary day we live,
            And for some pleasure striving,
            The world can never give.
            Though we possess the treasures
            Of all the lands, and seas,
            We ne'er would cease our sighing,
            For something more than these.
          

          
            The flowers may bloom at morning
            With colors bright and gay,
            And with their fragrant odors
            Perfume each breath of day ;
            But, oh ! their sweets and beauties
            Bring not the sovereign balm,
            By ev'ry mortal needed
            The troubled heart to calm.
          

          
            The birds with merriest carols,
            In fields and shady bowers,
            Enliven with their music,
            To bless the passing hours ;
            And oft they thrill the bosom
            Like sweetest roundelay,
            Still, they increase our longings,
            For purer strains than they.
          


          

          
            Kind friends may round us gather,
            To make life blest and fair,
            Each daily want supplying
            With sympathy and care ;
            But yet there is an aching--
            A void they can not fill,
            And be they e'er so loving
            The soul is troubled still.
          


          
            Then what is it that woos us
            To purer joys and ease,
            When each with fullest measure
            Hath giv'n its share of these?
            Oh ! 'tis the Savior, calling
            To every one unblest ;
            Come yearning soul, all burthened,
            And I will give you rest.
          


          
            He'll take away your burthens
            And make your heart rejoice,
            If you will only hear him,
            And heed his pleading voice;
            Ho ! every one who thirsteth,
            Come to the fountain's side,
            And drink heaven's healing waters,
            And be ye satisfied.
          


        
        

        
          Thanksgiving Hymn


          
            Oh ! God of mercy, power and light,
            Enthroned in heaven above,
            With hearts of joy we now unite
            To celebrate thy love.
            Through each eventful night and day,
            Brought by the passing year,
            Thy hand hath been our constant stay,
            Thy words have quelled each fear.
          

          
            The earth, as warmed by sun-lit rays
            And watered by the rain,
            Is crowned with shocks of Indian maize
            And golden sheaves of grain
            To bless the yeoman's weary toil;
            And fruits from vine and grove,
            That yield rich gifts, as wine and oil,
            Attest thy care and love.
          

          
            The day is hushed, and naught
            Is heard but songs which swell
            In praise, or notes of music caught
            From sweetly chiming bell.


            

            For 'tis by rulers set apart,
            The time when toil and care
            Should cease, and man with thankful heart
            Lift up his voice in prayer.
          

          
            God of the seasons ! we would bless
            Thy holy name, this day;
            Oh! help our lips and tongues express
            All that our hearts would say.
            As time flies on its mete to fill,
            Through each succeeding year,
            Our comforter and stay be still,
            Our hearts to bless and cheer.
          

        
        






        
          Golden Wedding

          (Addressed to Mr. Isaac Wilson. and Hannah Decker Wilson, Olney,
            Illinois, Oct. 13, 1879.)
          
            We hail thee, groom and bride of fifty years !
            Who hand in hand, midst trials, hopes and fears
            Have journeyed down the stream of life, and still,
            In love and joy, thy youthful vows fulfill.
             Old time, unroll thy scroll and once again
            Reveal the joyous hours and moments when
            These hearts, united and in unison
            To love's sweet voice and touch, first beat as one!
            And, in the flight of years, oh, heaven, let this
            Be one, to them, of hallowed, wedded bliss,
            As friends and kindred, near and far away
            Now greet them on their golden wedding day.
          


          
            When twain you gave in troth the plighted vow,
            Surely the angels did, consenting, bow,
            For all along this half a hundred years
            Your smiles and joys have far outweighed your tears.
            Mercy and peace, with choicest blessings stored,
            Have crowned with plenty your domestic board ;


            

            And children have been given you to bless
            And cheer your latter days with happiness.
            You, best of husbands, you, the best of wives,
            We greet as groom and bride, God bless your lives,
            And in each heart shed love's delicious ray,
            To gild and crown your golden wedding day.
          

          
            Oh ! may your years in future glide along
            As sweet as poet's dream or maiden's song;
            And care no deeper lines upon each brow
            Trace with his finger than are graven now ;
            And beauty's richest tints, from nature, borrow,
            To shrine the purest love of each to-morrow,
            As from hope's mountain, by prescience given,
            You view the twilight of the coming even;
            And, when time's measure to each one is filled--
            Your loving hearts to all below be stilled,
            Sweet Star of Bethlehem, let thy bright rays
            Becrown and light you in the heavenly ways.
          

        


        






        
          Evolution


          (Is it Fact or Fancy?)

          
            Who will deny this is a reasoning age,
            When we by it can trace our lineage
            Through high selection and development,
            Unhelped by revelation kindly sent,
            From man and woman, shaped in glorious forms,
            To bugs and fleas and loathsome, slimy worms?
          

          
            Time was when we were taught to act and think
            That there was no connecting common link
            Between the brute and human, but, alas !
            We find ourselves related to the ass;
            For did not he have such a brassy cheek
            In converse terse to brother Baalam speak?
            And though we fail our true kindship to find,
            The difference is in shape and not in kind.
          

          
            Who can not some resemblance strong descry
            Between a lady and a butterfly,
            As she, full rigged, like vessel trimmed for sail,
            Throws all her frills and pinbacks to the gale,


            

            Regardless how the gallant top sail hangs,
            If it does not obscure her frizzled bangs,
            Bedecked with hues through art and nature's freaks,
            That oft outshine the paint upon her cheeks.
          

          
            And don't the modern dandy, dressed to kill,
            Or wound his sweetheart 'neath her linen frill,
            Recall the plumage and the peacock strut,
            When each upon their backs their all have put,
            Unconscious that the crowd that round them gathers
            Is but attracted by their " fuss and feathers."
          

          
            And don't the dude, with natty hat and cane,
            Resemble much in walk and look, the crane,
            As he with stylish step and ogling stare,
            E'er keeps his weather eye upon the fair?
            He often flirts by way of a digression,
            And wonders if he has made an impression,
            When, really, at most, his strolling visit
            Calls forth the question only, Oh ! what is it?
          

          
            A drummer's likeness, who can not discern,
            To elephant, which has his grub to earn?
            Each packs a trunk, in traveling to and fro,
            And quarters take, when to each town they go;

            

            Both travel with a show, as you may see,
            And, if unchecked, when bent upon a spree,
            Although each one a different cause espouses,
            Are pretty sure in time to break their houses.
          

          
            That polly parrot and the politician
            Are much alike, 'twould take no wise logician
            To demonstrate, since seizing on the polls
            Each sees his footing's good, in all his roles;
            They well agree, in all their songs and meters.
            And often act their parts, as ward repeaters;
            For in each case, of squalling and of splutter,
            They have a common object-bread and butter.
          

          
            And who, with keen perception can not draw
            Resemblance 'twixt the learned judge at law,
            And silent owl, with solemn face and eyes?
            Both put on dignity, and each looks wise;
            Both sit among the limbs, the one of trees,
            The other those of law, of all degrees;
            While each in doing justice to his cause
            Deals fowly often with the footed claws.
          
          
            And there are persons (be to them bad luck !)
            Who see between a doctor and a duck
            A likeness strong, and say, as proof to back it,
            That each has a propensity to quack it. 

            

            The charlatan of herbs and sugar pills
            Oft, like the duck, has flat and lengthy bills;
            And each in turn is often seen in quest
            Of down or gold to feather well his nest.
          

          
            Behold ! e'en now, against our pride and wishes,
            Our lineage is traced way down to fishes,
            For pretty mermaids, living 'neath the waves,
            Flirting with beaux within their coral caves,
            In time may change their haunts for huts and gardens,
            And with their sisters sport the Dolly Vardens.
          

          
            The merman, will he common impulse mind,
            When he has not a tail to wag behind,
            And put on style and airs, like any other
            Big fish, evolved into a man and brother,
            Who has exchanged his drink--a common fate,
            For that of lager beer or whisky straight?
          

          
            And thus we see through scientific glasses
            Some common traits developed by the masses
            Of human kind, and beasts, that otherwise
            Would seem inexplicable mysteries.
            But he who now the likeness can't discern
            Is thought too big a fool to live and learn.
          



          

          
            Yes, sages, who in science deeply revel,
            Have found for creatures but a common level,
            And like a river, in its upward course,
            Blest evolution points the native source;
            And although it may tinge the cheeks with shame,
            We learn our destiny, and whence we came.
            With syllogistic trick, of cunning art,
            They prove all creatures had an even start,
            And when some, in improvement's onward race
            In nature's scale, secured the higher place,
            It was "selection," "blue glass," or mistake,
            That caused them all the new departure take.
            They set at naught, as false, God's wondrous plan,
            In holy writ outlined,--" Let us make man."
            They bridge their paths o'er the chaotic chasm
            With what they sagely call the protoplasm,
            But leave to chance, at some propitious hour,
            To give to it a vitalizing power.
            They say the protoplasm from protein came
            Through isomeric forms with upward aim,
            And mol'cules, by affinities arranged,
            As they in nature's crucible were changed.
            But whence the protein as thus combined,
            And all the elements which stand behind?


            

            Suppose that mankind first did take its start
            In cell and germ, each playing well its part,
            Until evolved in years to babyhood,
            Who furnished nurses for the little brood?
            Who made their beds at night, so warm and neat,
            And tucked the covers round their tiny feet?
            And when,from hunger,mamma they were calling,
            Who soothed and gave them milk to stop their squalling ?
            Pray, Doctor Darwin, who supplied the teas
            To cure their colds contracted in the breeze,
            When out upon a little picnic frolic,
            Or soothing syrup when they had the colic?
            Who taught their lisping tongues the human speech?
            Was it the moaning sea shell on the beach,
            Or echo notes, which through the forests rang,
            Where dwell the monkey and orang-outang?
            Of reason's light, who was the gracious giver?
            Does brain secrete a thought, as bile the liver?
            And do we find the little fellows springing
            Up through gradations time is ever bringing
            From lowest type of life to highest one,
            A daughter this to be, and that, a son?
            If so, by all means, let the fact be stated,
            And let the darlings all be cultivated.
            Then, by selection, or by evolution maybe,
            We all can boast a good and pretty baby,


            

            And grow it like a rose geranium,
            And stuff with sense its little cranium,
            That all the world may know that times have changed,
            And nature's laws are now by science ranged.
          

          
            Suppose it took a million years to bring
            An element up to a living thing,
            Why can we not, in the transforming stages,
            Witness what others saw in ancient ages?
            Why can we not, in our own passing day,
            Perceive the great progressive laws at play,
            And see the embryotic germ of hen
            A new departure take, and hatch a wren?
            Or, in full term and time, bring forth to view
            An eagle, condor or a cockatoo?
            Or plastic fertile germ of horse or ass,
            Which does by chance through evolution pass,
            Become a little shining humming-bird,
            Or elephant, a Jumbo of the herd ?
            Now shall we say, to cover well the point
            Of failure, that these times are out of joint ?
            Ah, science has its garners fully loaded
            With baseless theories, by facts exploded.
            One year has launched imaginative schemes
            That proved the next but scientific dreams;
            So, when, in wisdom's deepest depths profound,
            The sages have at last the unit found,


            

            The utmost point of science has been reached,
            And all the sophistry that they have preached
            Then fails them, and compels a fatal pause,
            If they ignore a potent, great first cause ;
            For who but God, ye scientists, please tell,
            Could make the elements of germ and cell?
            We know we can a compound change at will
            Into its elements, with cunning skill,
            And, then, as easily can re-combine
            The same; yet these show not the hand divine,
            Save in unerring laws at first created,
            Which govern solid things and sublimated.
            In hydrogen and oxygen combined
            The compound water, we are sure to find :
            Yet at the chemist's skillful touch, 'tis true
            It may assume ethereal weight and hue;
            And, too, the crystal, with its clear cut faces,
            By solvents can be changed, so that no traces
            Are left to tell of former beauties bright,
            Reflected and refracted by the light.
            And still, through nature's fixed, unvar'ing laws
            So surely as effect does follow cause,
            This mass may yet that lovely form regain,
            If first conditions are assumed again.
            Not so with living cell and protoplast :
            Once changed they never more can be recast
            Into their former beings. From the dead
            No life can come, when vital spark has fled.


            

            What is that vital spark, and whence it came,
            Which warmed the living as with fiery flame?
            Was it but an electric current riven?
            Or was it soul, or spirit-life, God-given,
            Which unenvironed flew its heavenly way,
            Leaving its house of matter to decay?
            Then why the difference, we the savants ask,
            'Twixt dead and living matter? Solons meet the task.
            Through words revealed we have a clear solution ;
            Through wiseacres it's only evolution.
            If a creator is required at last,
            To form the elements of bioplast,
            Why go behind creative power revealed,
            To seek it in vague reason's mists concealed?
            The trouble is to bridge the boundless chasm
            'Twixt cell and ether with the protoplasm.
            Can't He, who could a nucleus create,
            As well make mankind in their high estate ?
            This epigram has lived for many days,
            The rule is poor that will not work both ways,
            And, if it be accepted as a truth,
            Then why may we not just as well, forsooth !
            Say Jocko lost his manhood for a cage,
            Since this is held as a degen'rate age?
            The origin of sin and Adam's fall
            Is no great mystery, if we but call 

            


            To aid deep science, in these latter days,
            When all the world with knowledge is ablaze,
            And higher critics soar on shining wings,
            And look askance at all intricate things;
            For now we know that circumstance deranges
            The course of matter with time's many changes,
            So that a creature, once of high degree and cast,
            Through retrograding scale, might crawl at last.
            Perhaps the serpent, which to Eve did speak,
            In nature was a metamorphosed freak.
            His cunning plot, alas! too well succeeded
            But for it lost its speech, and then receded
            Along the backward course of evolution
            (A barren recompense for honied elocution),
            Till now, at last, under the best auspices,
            It can but squirm, and crawl, and issue hisses.
            Can't Darwin see, in the descending scale,
            That mankind might at last evolve a tail,
            If circumstances were at all propitious
            To give them four legs, and a nature vicious,
            Since nature, in her various moods and ways,
            Full oft a downward tendency betrays?
            Then, taking as a truth the olden rule,
            Of double action, up and down, the school
            Of Darwin might have solved the problem clearly,
            Of extinct races which we learn of yearly,
            Of men, whose cities in our western land
            As monuments unto their genius stand, 

            

            But who could not successful warfare wage
            'Gainst a degenerate prehistoric age.
            Did they assume a higher type or did they change
            Their shapes and natures to a lower range ?
            In this dilemma science doth avail
            To trace the missing link to Spotted Tail,
            And to his many savage cousins full,
            From bad Geronimo to Sitting Bull,
            And all their nomad kindred, high and low,
            From painted chief to shaggy buffalo.
            In free development, reversed, we see,
            When left to chance and blind selection free,
            We might descend the scale to simpler forms
            Until we reach the level of the worms,
            And even lower, in the backward grade,
            If evolution lent its molding aid.
            If we review the times of long ago,
            And scan the ancient works of man, we know
            He then our equal was in many things,
            O'er which aesthetic taste still glamour flings,
            And see, upon the world's recording chart,
            That no advance has since been made in art,
            Or painting, or in architectural skill;
            For evidences dot each plain and hill
            To show that Africa and Asia then
            Gave to that age as wise, enlightened men


            

            As boasted Europe or America
            Can give in this, our golden era day.
            Their monuments and palaces yet stand
            To testify of wisdom, genius grand,
            Whose reach and depth and breadth, in culture vast,
            In modern times have never been surpassed.
            What stopped blest progress in its upward work?
            Was it Egyptian or the turbaned Turk
            That turned the tide, with retrograding wheels,
            Until the map with deepest tints reveals
            A darkened Asia, and a darker Africa?
            Did evolution stop or go astray?
            E'en Greece and Rome's trancendent light
            Was overshadowed, as by stygian night,
            As crimes and ignorance usurped the sway,
            Where right and intellect once led the way.
            Whatever the new fangled doctrine does,
            With puffed up scholars, it creates a buzz,
            As they drink its philosophy and cant,
            Which do, to them, supply the long felt want;
            And, thus equipped, to all they shy a lance,
            Who won't believe that all things came by chance.
            They will admit that there are good and evil,
            Yet stubbornly ignore both God and devil;
            That Joshua really did make the sun
            Stand still, while he his battles fought and won ;



            

            And that the waters of the Red Sea stood
            Divided, as a wall of stone or wood
            On either side, which Moses smote with rod,
            By the command of Israel's mighty God;
            That Lazarus in pinching hunger died,
            And went to heaven, while Dives, who, in pride,
            Had all the good things of the world below,
            Went to the regions of eternal woe;
            That Jonah, disobeying God's commands,
            Took ship to sail for heathen, wicked lands,
            But soon was thrown o'erboard to still a gale,
            And then was swallowed by a mammoth whale,
            Where he remained three days and more,
            And then was spewed alive upon the shore,
            Are things too foolish for their minds' deep yearning,
            And quite beneath their scientific learning.
            What they may fail to reason out to fit
            Their syllogistic minds, so filled with wit,
            Must relegated be to shad'wy past,
            When superstition's clouds the mind o'ercast.
            They thus confine their little sum of knowledge
            Within the compass of their books and college,
            And, right or wrong, each will espouse and cater
            To current dogmas of his alma mater.
            Let them but rub themselves against the bowlder
            Of common sense, in time, as they grow older,


            

            And they will each perceive it will require
            More wit than theirs born of a vain desire,
            However deep they may of learning drink,
            To find for us man's long-lost " missing link."
            " From dust thou art, to dust thou shalt return "
            A meaning has, that man was slow to learn,
            But through the light the scientists have brought,
            Evolved through reason's clearest, deepest thought,
            Our origin and end we learn at last--
            Begun in gas, it ends in protoplast.
            Now, if our wonted pride of birth be mocked,
            And all our sentient nerves be rudely shocked,
            To learn our fam'ly trees commenced in fog,
            And can be traced to bug or pollywog
            Through nature's freaks and many changeful ways,
            To Darwin, Spencer, Huxley give the praise.
          

        


        


        
          Twilight

          
            Eve's twilight, oh, how sweet ! The hum of day
            Is borne no more upon the zephyr's wings ;
            The whip-poor-will alone now plaintive sings,
            Within the distant copse, its vesper lay;
            On yonder fleecy cloud the sun's last ray
            Of beauty lingers yet, and o'er it flings
            Bright hues from which the rainbow springs,
            That paints the sky's ethereal, trackless way.
            The evening star, in heaven's expanse of blue,
            Now brightly sheds its rays, and twinkling gleams
            Amid the shades of night in pearly dew;
            And Luna flings her lustrous, mellow beams
            O'er drowsy nature, as the last curfew
            Lulls all to quiet sleep and pleasant dreams.
          

        
        


        
          Cromwell

          
            Though enemies for centuries have tried,
            Cromwell, to link thy name with infamy,
            It yet shines forth like brilliant star to guide
            All who would burst the chains of tyranny
            And quaff the sweetened cup of liberty.
            Slander has tried to whelm it 'neath its tide
            Of blackness, yet it lives in beaut'ous pride,
            For patriots still revere thy memory.
            Though England ne'er the monumental stone
            Shall rear, to honor thee, her valiant son,
            And hist'ry ne'er shall tell thy truthful story,
            Thy monument shall be thy country's glory ;
            And millions shall thy name in freshness keep,
            When all thy foes shall in oblivion sleep.
          

        
        








        
          Lady Jane Grey

          
            Alas ! fair child of genius; none can read
            The hist'ry of thy wrongs with tearless eyes,
            Or feel the impulse that thy wisdom shed,
            And not the bloody Mary's name despise.
            Ages have passed since thy freed spirit fled
            To join again its partner in the skies,
            But ah ! thy memory is not yet dead
            And ne'er will be whilst live the good and wise.
            Thy genius was thy ruin, hapless one !
            Had not ambition filled the breasts of those
            Who loved, yet urged thee on to England's throne,
            Then thou wouldst ne'er have met the vengeful foes,
            Who spilled thy young life's blood, ere fame's bright sun
             Its zenith reached, or cast a stigma on its close.
          
        

        







        
          The Departed Year

          
            Hark ye ! what meaneth that sonorous chime
            That echoes in the soul like muffled bell
            In saddest tones? It is the fun'ral knell
            Of the old year, pealed by the stroke of time !
            How mournfully it falls upon the ear !
            The heart grows faint, as memory recalls to mind
            The blasted hopes and firm resolves once twined
            In freshness round the lost departed year !
            Another link is added to the chain
            That reaches from creation's wond'rous morn,
            When sun and moon and stars and earth were born,
            To mighty, vast eternity's domain !
            Then speed, old time, on thy unmeasured way
            Till thou hast ushered in Millennial day !
          

        
        









        
          Cupid's Plea

          
            Are matches made in heaven? Ah, no, not all,
            For circumstance and art and mammon do
            Much of the pairing of the world ; they who
            Mark not the fact are deaf to Cupid's call.
            Yet, when, contrariwise, some people seek
            The course of nature's plan to overthrow,
            Success may follow for awhile, but woe
            And sorrow afterwards dire vengeance wreak.
            A monitor presides within the breast
            Of ev'ry mortal being with a soul,
            Restless, and vigilant, and e'er in quest
            Of some congenial spirit to console
            The aching heart, and give its longings rest,
            And nothing else its cravings will control.
          


          
            To farthest verge marked by the night and day,
            Ere blighting sin the human race had cursed,
            The heav'nly orbs their courses run, as first
            Through space they started on their trackless way.


            





            So in accord with laws divinely made,
            When left to freely choose, all creatures mate,
            And not by accident, which some call fate ;
            And thus through love is nature's will obeyed.
            Are laws which seem to govern earth and heaven
            Not made for man? Can he set them aside,
            When they for all creation's sum were given?
            Can he through station, pomp, or wealth, or pride,
            Or fame, atone for pure affections riven,
            That on love's altar once were deified?
          


          
            The wedding bells with silver tongues may ring
            Their merry chimes, the ear to charm and please,
            And riches bring with them luxurious ease;
            But, oh, too oft they leave a poignant sting
            Where naught but joy seemed only due, for love
            Can not be bought with gold; respect at best
            Is all that mammon gains by rich behest--
            Affection pure it can not buy or move.
            Society, by artful charms, may win
            With dazzling rays; but all its glamour soon


            


            Wears off, as pleasures fade from gilded sin ;
            And, even, fame the heart can not attune
            When mated not by love, for naught within
            One answ'ring chord sends back to proffered boon.
          

          
            Half hidden, Cupid, in his sylvan bower,
            Alert, by instinct, and with watchful eye
            Peers at, with cunning glance, each passer-by,
            As bees peep from the petals of a flower,
            Op'ning with beauty to the dews and sun ;
            And ready stands, with bended bow and dart,
            Love-tipped, to pierce each sympathetic heart
            Exposed by mutual admiration won :
            And shy is lad or lass who can evade
            The shaft upon its fatal mission sent,
            Though oft the shot seems but at random made;
            For when he's on marauding conquest bent,
            The victim, dazed by blandishments displayed,
            At will surrenders, with a sweet consent.
          

          
            Then let each lover's purest offerings,
            Of deep devotion and of graces sweet,
            Be placed on altar at the Sly God's feet,
            And he will fan the flame with downy wings 

            




            And make it burn the brighter, as the days
            May come and go, since opposition binds
            More closely sympathetic hearts and minds.
            Defying reason's subtle, cunning ways,
            When conscience shall give heed to Cupid's plea,
            Untrammeled by restraint of wealth or caste,
            And guided by affection sweet, and free,
            May we not hope ere many years be passed
            Mankind will wiser, purer, happier be,
            In Time's progression to its end at last?
          
        
        









        
          Rachel

          
            Farewell, my little babe, a last farewell!
            The dews of death are resting on thy brow;
            Thine eyes that once did bind, with mystic spell,
            By their cerulean light, are beamless now!
            Thy pilgrimage was brief upon the earth,
            Yet it was full of sadness and of woe;
            For fell disease preyed on thy form from birth
            Till death struck with his shaft the fatal blow.
            But, oh, my child, thy suff'rings now are o'er,
            And thy pure, patient spirit is in bliss:
            And now disease and death can harm no more--
            They can not enter thine abode of peace.
            Then rest, dear babe, till Christ shall bid thee rise,
            To join thy kindred spirits in the skies!
          

        
        









        
          To Miss M. J. S.

          
            Sweet songstress of the west! Thy numbers seem
            Unto the heart as some elysian dream;
            For like sweet odors on the ambient air,
            When zephyrs kiss the lips of flowrets fair,
            Thy songs of beauty, melting on the soul,
            Entrance each feeling by their sweet control.
            Each rosy flower, that drinks the morning dew,
            By thy soft touch receives a lovelier hue;
            Each murm'ring stream, that lightly glides along,
            Is made still dearer by thy magic song;
            Each twinkling star that gems the brow of night
            Seems brighter lit by thine eyes' glowing light;
            And, lady, as I drink thy lute-like strains,
            The earth its Eden loveliness regains.
          

        
        









        
          To Mrs. M. B. Harlan

          
            Oh ! lady, strike the muse's lyre again,
            And let it not be on the willow hung;
            But breathe once more a sweet and gentle strain
            Of melody, like those thou oft hast sung.
            Thy lays have touched with tenderness my heart,
            And roused a feeling never felt before,
            Which I could fondly wish would ne'er depart,
            But echo sweetly there forevermore.
            Thou oft hast soared upon bright fancy's wing
            To fair elysian fields and sylvan bowers,
            And yet canst make at will, like magic, spring
            To life a thousand sweet, poetic flowers.
            Then, child of song, awake thy slumbering lyre,
            And o'er it breathe again a poet's fire !
          

        
        









        
          May

          
            Hail, fairest sister of the vernal train !
            With harp attuned to thy inspiring theme
            Of melody, as sweet as poet's dream
            Of love, oh, I would sing with raptu'ous strain
            Thy praises : for o'er hill, and vale, and plain,
            Where winds, like silver band, the rippling stream,
            Thy beauties with a soft effulgence gleam.
            Thy breath refreshes like the summer rain,
            As zephyrs kiss from flowers their odors sweet,
            When at thy coming they their lips unseal;
            Sweet music notes, which minstrel birds repeat
            At morn, commingling, on my senses steal,
            And bring the yearning soul a peaceful rest
            And calm that makes it oft supremely blest.
          
        

        






        
          June


          
            Bright, rosy June, thou beaut'ous month of flowers,
            Whose nectared sweets embalm each breath of day--
            Whose song-birds vocal make thy vine-clad bowers,
            To thee, in praise, is penned this simple lay.
            Whilst brooding o'er the many ills of life,
            Pressed down with toil and cares upon my road,
            How oft the heart is wooed from its sad strife
            By thee, whose charms make me forget the load.
            I look upon each bright and vari'd scene
            In wood, and field, as far as eye can scan,
            And find that at each place there thou hast been
            And strewn thy gifts, to cheer the heart of man.
            Then, sweet the lay, and sweeter far the tune,
            I fain would sing for thee, bright, rosy June !
          
        
        







        
          On the Death of a Child

          
            Sweet babe, disease has ceased to pain thee now,
            For thy pure soul, on little angel wings,
            Has ris'n, in triumph, o'er death's piercing stings,
            To paradise; and now thy spotless brow
            Is crowned with vict'ry's bright and fadeless wreath.
            Oh, it was well that thou didst pass from earth
            In early life, for mortals, from their birth,
            For sin must suffer till their latest breath.
            Then, mother, though sweet ties of love be riven,
            And thy dear Willie's form is torn away,
            Weep not; for know that he was only given
            Thee, as a flower, to nurture for a day.
            His spirit's gone to join an angel band
            And be with Jesus in that better land.
          

        

        








        
          Sonnet

          
            Fair lady, it is not thine eyes so bright,
            Which sparkle as the flashing stars at night;
            'Tis not thy ringlets or thy silken hair,
            In beauty twined about thy brow so fair;
            'Tis not thy voice of gladness, which e'er fills
            The loving heart with rapture's sweetest thrills;
            'Tis not thine airy step, or sylph-like form,
            That gives to thee thy most bewitching charm;
            Nor even all these qualities combined,
            But 'tis the nobler gifts of heart and mind.
            Endowed with virtue, wit and grace,
            Thou art, in truth, the loveliest of thy race ;
            Then, who could say it were idolatry,
            If in love's holiest dream man worshiped thee?
          

        

        








        
          Winter

          
            Winter is here, the flowers of sweetest breath
            Which bloomed beneath a genial sky so fair,
            And filled with rich perfume the summer's air,
            Midst gloom now withered lie in icy death.
            And mournfully goes by the wayward wind,
            As through the leafless trees it weirdly stealeth
            In music tones--its chilly breath congealeth
            The sparkling dews, that lie in beauty shrined
            Upon the faded grass, and, far as eye
            Can scan, the somber hues of winter's blight
            Rise up in gloominess before the sight,
            Like specters mirrored on the leaden sky.
            Alas, that earth's sweet flowers, of beaut'ous ray,
            Should thus by winter's blightings fade away!
          
        

        








        
          Conscience

          
            That conscience is a monitor within
            Our being, people oft have said, to tell
            Mankind the right to do, the wrong repel,
            That we may thus escape the guilt of sin,
            And approbation from our Maker win.
            But is this true? Doth reason not fortell
            The right from wrong, in tones like warning bell,
            To conscience, dissipating doubt and din?
            Yea, judgement's light emblazons well life's way,
            To make the paths of duty sure and plain,
            That conscience, tutored and enlightened, may,
            Environed and confined to thought's domain,
            Assist mankind the better to obey
            The law, and thus lost paradise regain.
          

        
        







        
          Sonnet

          
            Oh! lady weep no more, but let me chase
            From thy fair cheeks those crystal tears away,
            That shine like sparkling dews, and now be gay;
            Although, as stealing down thy saddened face
            Their brightness adds another gentle grace
            To thy already winning charms, as they
            With beauty gem, like pearls of purest ray;
            Yet with my lips I would those tears efface,
            As the bright dews are kissed from off the flowers
            By morning's sun-lit breath. Cheer up, be calm:
            Heaven will disperse the cloud that round thee lowers,
            And o'er thy troubled mind shed a sweet balm;
            And gently soothe thee, in thy deepest sorrow,
            And cause a brighter sky to gild the morrow.
          

        
        







        
          Cuba


          
            Heroic Cubans ! hard has been your fate,
            Enslaved and slain by tyrant's stern command ;
            Be firm and of good cheer, and watch and wait,
            As your deliverance is near at hand.
            For soon Columb'a's sons will strike the blow,
            That will forever end Spain's power for strife,
            Which e'er had brought you misery and woe,
            And freedom give, the dearest boon of life.
          


          
            Americans ! ye men of noble sires,
            Let mem'ries of your brothers on the Maine
            Rekindle in your breasts avenging fires
            That shall consume accurs'd, assassin Spain.
            To arms, ye brave ! unsheath your gleaming swords ;
            From peaceful rests take down your trusty guns,
            And from Columbia's shores drive dastard hordes
            And let them know you still are freedom's sons.
          

          



          
            In passing time her cruel, fiendish work
            Has kept apace with the revolving years,
            Outrivaling, in hellish deeds, the Turk
            Who, ghoul-like, thrived on human blood and tears.
            O'er western lands, in sweet religion's name,
            Her banners have been raised but to deceive,
            And all who trusted have been brought to shame,
            And left o'er sorrow's bitter cup to grieve.
          


          
            O'er fair Peru and fairer Mexico,
            Her savag'ry and thirst for sordid gold
            Brought to the Incas and the Aztecs woe
            Too heavy for the human heart to hold.
            Her greed for conquest, like a rising flood
            Sweeping in billows o'er the coral strand,
            Baptized old Cuba in a sea of blood,
            Leaving no soul to tell of " Fatherland."*
          


          
            And yet, when centuries had passed away,
            And a new race had made their homes to smile
            With love, again she comes in war array
            To lay in waste this beaut'ous, happy isle.
          
          
          *Within a few years after the
            conquest of Cuba by Spain there was not a single individual of the native race left
            alive.


          



          
            Like wild hyenas in full yelping packs,
            No milk of human kindness in her veins,
            She leaves but desolation in her tracks,
            With hill and valley dyed with crimson stains.
          

          
            On ev'ry southern wind that passes by
            The plaints of starving children come and go,
            While helpless mothers in keen anguish cry,
            As famine, gaunt and grim, stalks to and fro.
            Can these appeals for sympathy and aid
            Unheeded be at such colossal crime?
            Freemen ! avenge these wrongs, with ball and blade,
            And fame will wreathe your brows in coming time.
          

          April 21, 1898.
        

      
    


  
