
   ----CITATION---- 
        Perkins, Lucy Fitch, 1865-1937.. The Dutch twins. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1856
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      Indiana University at South Bend
        
          
             
          
        

        

        
          
             
          
        
      
      
      
      
      
        By Lucy Fitch Perkins
        
          PUBLISHED BY
          
          HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
          
        
        
          THE FARM TWINS.
          THE PIONEER TWINS Illustrated.
          THE AMERICAN TWINS OF THE REVOLUTION. Illustrated.
          THE AMERICAN TWINS OF 1812. Illustrated
          THE COLONIAL TWINS OF VIRGINIA. Illustrated. 
          THE FILIPINO TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE SWISS TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE PURITAN TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE ITALIAN TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE SPARTAN TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE SCOTCH TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE FRENCH TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE BELGIAN TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE CAVE TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE MEXICAN TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE ESKIMO TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE IRISH TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE JAPANESE TWINS. Illustrated.
          THE DUTCH TWINS. Illustrated.

          MR. CHICK : His Travels and Adventures. Illustrated.
          ROBIN HOOD. Illustrated.
          CORNELIA: The Story of a Benevolent Despot. Illustrated.
        

        

         

      

      

      

      Dedication
        
          
            To Lawrence and other children
          
        




      






      


      Figure

        
           
        
      


      
      
        


          THE DUTCH TWINS

        

        By Lucy Fitch Perkins

        ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR

         

        
          
            BOSTON AND NEW YORK
          
          
            HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
            The Riverside Press Cambridge
          
        



      

      

      Verso

        COPYRIGHT, 1911, BY LUCY FITCH PERKINS
          ALL RIGHTS RESERVED, INCLUDING THE RIGHT TO REPRODUCE THIS BOOK OR
            PARTS THEREOF IN ANY FORM





        The Riverside Press
          CAMBRIDGE . MASSACHUSETTS
          PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.


      

      





     

         

    	
          CONTENTS
        
        

          
            INTRODUCTION--KIT
              AND KAT
            3
            
          

          
            THE DAY THEY WENT FISHINGhi> 5
            
          

          
            MARKET DAY WITH FATHER
            27
            
          

          
            MOTHER'S DAY
            55
            
          

          
            ONE SUNDAY
            85
            
          

          
            THE DAY THEY DROVE THE MILK CART
            117
            
          

          
            THE DAY THEY GOT THEIR SKATES
            137
            
          

        
      


      
      Halftitle


         







        





        THE DUTCH TWINS
        


      


      
      


         









        


    	KIT AND KAT
        



        This is a picture of Kit and Kat. They are Twins, and they live in Holland. Kit
          is the boy, and Kat is the girl.
        Of course their real names are not Kit and Kat at all. Their real names are
          Christopher and Katrina. But you can see for yourself that such long names as that would
          never in the world fit such a short pair of Twins. So the Twins' Mother, Vrouw Vedder,
          said,
        "They cannot be called Christopher and Katrina until they are four and a half
          feet high."
        Now it takes a long time to grow four and a half feet of Boy and Girl. You know,
          chickens and puppies and colts and kittens always grow up much faster than twins. Kit and
          Kat ate a great many breakfasts and dinners and suppers, and played a great many plays,
          and had a great many happy days while they were growing up to their names. I will tell you
          about some of them.
      
    
    

      

      The Dutch twins

        


        


        

          I
          



          
            THE DAY THEY WENT FISHING
          



          




           



          

          ITHE DAY THEY WENT FISHING

          ONE summer morning, very early, Vrouw Vedder opened the door
            of her little Dutch kitchen and stepped out.
          She looked across the road which ran by the house, across the canal on the other side,
            across the level green fields that lay beyond, clear to the blue rim of the world, where
            the sky touches the earth. The sky was very blue; and the great, round, shining face of
            the sun was just peering over the tops of the trees, as she looked out.
          Vrouw Vedder listened. The roosters in the barnyard were crowing, the ducks in the
            canal were quacking, and all the little birds in the fields were singing for joy. Vrouw
            Vedder hummed a slow little tune of her own, as she went back into her kitchen.
          Kit and Kat were still asleep in their little cupboard bed. She gave them each a kiss.
            The Twins opened their eyes and sat up.


          

          "O Kit and Kat," said Vrouw Vedder, "the sun is up, the birds are all awake and
            singing, and Grandfather is going fishing today. If you will hurry, you may go with him!
            He is coming at six o'clock; so pop out of bed and get dressed. I will put some lunch
            for you in the yellow basket, and you may dig worms for bait in the garden. Only be sure
            not to step on the young cabbages that Father planted."
          Kit and Kat bounced out of bed in a minute. Their mother helped them put on their
            clothes and new wooden shoes. Then she gave them each a bowl of bread and milk for their
            breakfast. They ate it sitting on the kitchen doorstep.
           

          

           


          This is a picture of Kit and Kat digging worms. You see they did just as their mother
            said, and did not step on the young cabbages. They sat on them, instead. But that was an
            accident.
          Kit dug the worms, and Kat put them into a basket, with some earth in it to make them
            feel at home.
          When Grandfather came, he brought a large fishing-rod for himself and two little ones
            for the Twins. There was a little hook on the end of each line.
          Vrouw Vedder kissed Kit and Kat goodbye. 
          "Mind Grandfather, and don't fall into the water," she said.


          

           



          
           Grandfather and the Twins started off together down the long road beside the
            canal.
          The house where the Twins lived was right beside the canal. Their father was a
            gardener, and his beautiful rows of cabbages and beets and onions stretched in long
            lines across the level fields by the roadside.
          Grandfather lived in a large town, a little way beyond the farm where the Twins lived.
            He did not often have a holiday, because he carried milk to the doors of the people in
            the town, every morning early. Sometime I will tell you how he did it; but I must not
            tell you now, because if I do, I can't tell you about their going fishing. This morning,
            Grandfather carried his rod and the lunch-basket. Kit and Kat carried the basket of
            worms between them, and their rods over their shoulders, and they were all three very
            happy.
          They walked along ever so far, beside the canal. Then they turned to the left and  walked along a path that ran from the canal across the green
            fields to what looked like a hill.
           But it was n't a hill at all, really, because there are n't any hills in Holland. It
            was a long, long wall of earth, very high--oh, as high as a house, or even higher! And
            it had sloping sides.
          There is such a wall of earth all around the country of Holland, where the Twins live.
            There has to be a wall, because the sea is higher than the land. If there were no walls
            to shut out the sea, the whole country would be covered with water; and if that were so,
            then there would n't be any Holland, or any Holland Twins, or any story. So you see it
            was very lucky for the Twins that the wall was there. They called it a dyke.
           Grandfather and Kit and Kat climbed the dyke. When they reached the top, they sat down
            a few minutes to rest and look at the great blue sea. Grandfather sat in the middle,
            with Kit on one side, and Kat on the 
              other; and the basket of worms and the basket of lunch were there,
            too.
          They saw a great ship sail slowly by, making a cloud of smoke.
          "Where do the ships go, Grandfather?" asked Kit.
           "To America, and England, and China, and all over the world," said Grandfather.
          "Why?" asked Kat. Kat almost always said "Why?" and when she did n't, Kit did.
          "To take flax and linen from the mills  of Holland to make
            dresses for little girls in other countries," said Grandfather.
          "Is that all?" asked Kit.
          "They take cheese and herring, bulbs and butter, and lots of other things besides, and
            bring back to us wheat and meat and all sorts of good things from the lands across the
            sea."
          "I think I'll be a sea captain when I'm big," said Kit.
          "So will I," said Kat.
          "Girls can't," said Kit.
           But Grandfather shook his head and said:
          "You can't tell what a girl may be by the time she's four feet and a half high and is
            called Katrina. There's no telling what girls will do anyway. But, children, if we stay
            here we shall not catch any fish."
          So they went down the other side of the dyke and out onto a little pier that ran from
            the sandy beach into the water.
          Grandfather showed them how to bait their hooks. Kit baited Kat's for her, because Kat
            said it made her all wriggly inside 
             
             to do it. She did not like it. Neither did the worm!
          They all sat down on the end of the pier. Grandfather sat on the very end and let his
            wooden shoes hang down over the water; but he made Kit and Kat sit with their feet stuck
            straight out in front of them, so they just reached to the edge, --"So you can't fall
            in," said Grandfather.
          They dropped their hooks into the water and sat very still, waiting for a bite. The sun
            climbed higher and higher in the sky, and it grew hotter and hotter on the pier. The
            flies tickled Kat's nose and made her sneeze.
          "Keep still, can't you?" said Kit crossly. "You'll scare the fish. Girls don't know how
            to fish, anyway."
           Pretty soon Kat felt a queer little jerk on her line. She was perfectly sure she
            did.
          Kat squealed and jerked her rod. She jerked it so hard that one foot flew right up in
            the air, and one of her new wooden shoes went--splash--right into the water!
          But that was n't the worst of it! Before 
             
            
              you could say Jack Robinson, Kat's hook flew around and caught in
            Kit's clothes and pricked him.
          Kit jumped and said "Ow!" And then--no one could ever tell how it happened--there was
            Kit in the water, too, splashing like a young whale, with Kat's hook still holding fast
            to his clothes in the back!
          Grandfather jumped then, too, you may be sure. He caught hold of Kat's rod and 
              pulled hard and called out, "Steady there, steady!"
          And in one minute there was Kit in the shallow water beside the pier, puffing and
            blowing like a grampus!
          Grandfather reached down and pulled him up.


          

          When Kit was safely on the pier, Kat threw her arms around his neck, though the water
            was running down in streams from his hair and eyes and ears.
          "O Kit," she said, "I truly thought it was a fish on my line when I jumped!"
          "Just like a g-g-girl," said Kit. "They don't know how to f-f-fish." You see his teeth
            were chattering, because the water was cold.
          "Well, anyway," said Kat, "I caught more than you did. I caught you!"
          Then Kat thought of something else She shook her finger at Kit. 
           

          

          "O Kit," she said, "Mother told you not to fall into the water!"
          "'T-t-twas all your fault," roared Kit. "Y-y-you began it! Anyway, where is your new
            wooden shoe?"
          "Where are both of yours?" screamed Kat.
          Sure enough, where were they? No one had thought about shoes, because they were
            thinking so hard about Kit.
          They ran to the end of the pier and looked. There was Kat's shoe sailing away toward
            America like a little boat! Kit's were still bobbing about in the water near the
            pier.
          "Oh! Oh! Oh!" shrieked Kat; but the tide was going out and carrying her shoe farther
            away every minute. They could not get it; but Grandfather reached down with his rod and
            fished out both of Kit's shoes. Then Kat took off her other one and her stockings, and
            they all three went back to the beach.
          Grandfather and Kat covered Kit up with 
              sand to keep him warm while his clothes were drying. Then Grandfather
            stuck the Twins' fish-poles up in the sand and tied the lines together for a
            clothes-line, and hung Kit's clothes up on it, and Kat put their three wooden shoes in a
            row beside Kit.
          Then they ate their luncheon of bread and butter, cheese, and milk, with some radishes
            from Father's garden. It tasted very good, even if it was sandy. After lunch Grandfather
            said,


          

          "It will never do to go home without any fish at all."
          So by and by he went back to the pier and caught one while the Twins played in the
            sand. He put it in the lunch-basket to carry home.
          Kat brought shells and pebbles to Kit, because he had to stay covered up in the sand,
            and Kit built a play dyke all around himself with them, and Kat dug a canal outside the
            dyke. Then she made sand-pies in clam-shells and set them in a row in the sun to
            bake.
          They played until the shadow of the dyke grew very long across the sandy beach, and
            then Grandfather said it was time to go home.
          He helped Kit dress, but Kit's clothes were still a little wet in the thick parts. And
            Kat had to go barefooted and carry her one wooden shoe.
          They climbed the dyke and crossed the fields, and walked along the road by the canal.
            The road shone, like a strip of yellow  ribbon across the
            green field. They walked quite slowly, for they were tired and sleepy.
          By and by Kit said, "I see our house"; and Kat said, "I see Mother at the gate."
          Grandfather gave the fish he caught to Kit and Kat, and Vrouw Vedder cooked it for
            their supper; and though it was not a very big fish, they all had some.
          Grandfather must have told Vrouw Vedder something about what had happened; for that
            night, when she put Kit to bed, she felt of his clothes carefully--but she did n't say a
            word about their being damp. And she said to Kat: "To-morrow we will see the shoemaker
            and have him make you another shoe."
          Then Kit and Kat hugged her and said good-night, and popped off to sleep before you
            could wink your eyes. 

          

           





          



           

        



        
        

          II
          




          
            MARKET DAY WITH FATHER
          



          


           






          

          IIMARKET DAY WITH FATHER

          ONE afternoon Kit and Kat were playing around the kitchen
            doorstep, while their Mother sat on a bench by the door, peeling some onions for supper.
            It was not yet supper-time, but Vrouw Vedder was always ahead of the clock with the
            work.
          Kit and Kat had a pan of water and were teaching their ducklings to swim. They each had
            one little fat duckling of their very own. The ducklings squawked when Kit lifted them
            over the edge of the pan into the water.
          "Don't do that, Kit," said Kat. "The ducklings don't like it. You did n't like it when
            you fell into the water, did you?"
          "But I'm not a duck," said Kit. "Well, anyway, they're tired and want to go to their
            mother," said Kat. "Let 's  do something else ! I'll tell
            you what! Let's go out to the garden and help Father get the boat loaded for
            market."
          "All right," said Kit. "May we, Mother?"
          "Yes," said Vrouw Vedder; "and you may ask Father if he will take you to market with
            him to-morrow if it's fair. Tell him I said you could ask."
          "Oh, goody, goody!" said Kit and Kat, both at once; and they ran as fast as their
            wooden shoes would take them out into the garden.
          They found their father cutting cabbages and gathering them into piles. He was stopping
            to light his pipe, when they reached him.
          "O Father!" said Kit and Kat both together. "May we go on the boat to market with you
            to-morrow morning? Mother said we might ask!"
           Father Vedder blew two puffs from his pipe without answering.
          "We'll help you load the boat," said Kit.



          

           


          

           

          "Yes," said Kat, "I can carry a cabbage."
          "I can carry two," said Kit. "We'll both be good," said Kat.
          "Very well," said Father, at last. "We'll see how you work! And to-morrow morning, if
            it's fair, I'll see! But you must go to bed early to-night, because you'll have to get
            up very early in the morning, if you go  with me! Now you
            each take a cabbage and run along."
          Father Vedder went back to his work.
          Kit and Kat ran to the cabbage-pile. Kat took one, and Kit took two --just to show that
            he could.
          "When Father says 'I'll see,' he always means 'yes,'" Kat said to Kit.
          Perhaps it seems queer to you that they should go to market in a boat, but it did n't
            seem queer at all to the Twins.
          You see, in Holland there are a great many canals. They cross the fields like roadways
            of water, and that is what they really are. Little canals open into big ones, and big
            ones go clear to the sea.
          It is very easy for farmers to load their vegetables for market right on a boat. They
            can pull the boat out into the big canal, and then away they go to sell their produce in
            the town.
          The canals flow through the towns, too, and make water streets, where boats go up and
            down as carriages go here.



          

           


          The Twins and their father worked like beavers, washing the vegetables and packing them
            in baskets, until their good old boat was filled with cabbages and onions and beets and
            carrots and all sorts of good things to eat.
          By that time it was nearly dark, and they were all three very hungry; so they went
            home.



          

          They found that Mother Vedder had made buttermilk porridge for supper. The Twins loved
            buttermilk porridge. They each ate three bowls of it, and then their mother put them to
            bed.
          This is a picture of the bed! It opened  
             like a cupboard right into the kitchen, and it was like
            going to bed on a shelf in the pantry.
          The very next thing the Twins knew, it was morning, and there was Vrouw Vedder calling
            to them.
          "It's market day, and the sun is almost up. Come Kit and Kat, if you want to go with
            Father," she said.
          The Twins bounced out like two rubber balls. They ate some breakfast and then ran to
            the boat.
          Father was there before them. He helped them into the boat and put them both on one
            seat, and told them to sit still. Then he got in and took the pole and pushed off.
          Vrouw Vedder stood on the canal bank to see them pass.
          "Be good children; mind Father, and don't get lost," she called after them.
          Kit and Kat were very busy all the way to town, looking at the things to be seen on
            each side of the canal.
          It was so early in the morning that the 
              grass was all shiny with dew. Black and white cows were eating the
            rich green grass, and a few laborers were already in the fields.
          They passed little groups of farm buildings, their red-tiled roofs shining in the
            morning sun; and the windmills threw long, long shadows across the fields.
          The blue blossoms of the flax nodded to them from the canal bank; and once they saw a
            stork fly over a mossy green roof, to her nest on the chimney, with a frog in her
            mouth.


          

          They went under bridges and by little canals that opened into the main canal. They
            passed so close to some of the houses that Kit and Kat could see the white curtains
            blowing in the windows, and the pots of red geraniums standing on the sill. In one house
            the family waved their hands to Kit and Kat from the breakfast table, and a little
            farther on they passed a woman who was washing clothes in the canal. Other boats filled
            with vegetables and flowers of all colors passed them. And they were going to market
            too. Only no other boat had twins in it.
          "Good day, neighbor Vedder," one man called out. "Are you taking a pair of fat pigs to
            market?"
          By and by they came to the town. There were a great many boats in the canal here, and
            people calling back and forth to each other from them.
          Kit and Kat saw a boat that the Captain's family lived in. It was like a floating
            house.


          

           

          The Twins thought it must be grand to live on a boat like that, just going about from
            town to town, seeing new sights every day.
          "We should never have to go to school at all," said Kit.
          They wished their own boat were big enough to move about in; but Father told  them they must sit very, very still all the time.
          There were houses on each side of the canal, in the town, and people were clattering
            along over the pavement in their wooden shoes.
          The market-place was an open square in the middle of the town. It had little booths and
            stalls all about it. The farmers brought their fresh vegetables and flowers, or whatever
            they had to sell, into these stalls, and then sat there waiting for customers.

           

          

          Kit and Kat helped their father to unload the boat. Then they sat down on a box, and
            Father gave them each some bread and cheese to eat; for they were hungry again. They put
            the cheese between slices of bread and took bites, while they looked about.
          Soon there were a good many people in the square. Most of them were women with market
            baskets on their arms. They went to the different stalls to see what they would buy for
            dinner.
          A large woman with a big basket on her arm came along to the stall where Kit and Kat
            were sitting.
          "Bless my heart!" she said. "Are you twins?"
          "Yes, Ma'am," said Kit and Kat. And Kat said, "We're five years old."
          "O my soul!" said the large woman. "So you are! What are your names?"
          "Christopher and Katrina, but they call us Kit and Kat for short." It was Kat who said
            this. And Kit said, 
              "When we are four feet and a half high, we are going to be called
            Christopher and Katrina."
          "Well, well, well!" said the large woman. "So you are! Now my name is Vrouw Van der
            Kloot. Are you helping Father?"
          "Yes," said the Twins. "We're going to help him sell things."
          "Then you may sell me a cabbage and ten onions," said Vrouw Van der Kloot.



          

          Father Vedder's eyes twinkled, and he smoked his pipe. Kit got a cabbage for the
            Vrouw.
          "You can get the ten onions," he said to Kat. You see, really Kit could n't count ten
            and be sure of it. So he asked Kat to do it.
          Kat was n't afraid. She took out a little pile of onions in a measure, and said to
            Vrouw Van der Kloot,
          "Is that ten?"
          Then Vrouw Van der Kloot counted them with Kat, very carefully. There were eleven, and
            so she gave back one. Then she gave Kat the money for the onions, and Kit the money for
            the cabbage.
          Father Vedder said,
          "Now Kit and Kat, by and by, when you get hungry again, you can go over to Vrouw Van
            der Kloot's stall and buy something from her. She keeps the sweetie shop."
          "Oh! Oh!" cried Kit and Kat. "We're hungry yet! Can't we go now?"
          "No, not now," said Father. "We must do some work first."


          

          The Twins helped Father Vedder a long time. They learned to count ten and to do several
            other things. Then their father gave them the money for the cabbage and the ten onions
            they had sold to Vrouw Van der Kloot, and said,
          "You may walk around the market and look in all the stalls, and buy the thing you like
            best that costs just two cents. Then come back here to me."
           

          

          Kit and Kat set forth on their travels, to see the world. They each held the money
            tightly shut in one hand, and with the other hand they held on to each other.
          "The world is very large," said Kit and Kat.
          They saw all sorts of strange things in the market. There were tables piled high with
            flowers. There was a stall full of birds in cages, singing away with all their might.
            One cage had five little birds in it, sitting in a row.
          "O Kit," cried Kat, "let's buy the birds!"
          They asked the woman if the birds cost two cents, and she said,
          "No, my angels; they cost fifty cents."
          You see, now that the Twins could count ten, they knew they could n't get the birds for
            two cents when they cost fifty. So they went to the next place.
          There, there were chickens and ducks for sale. But the Twins had plenty of those at
            home. There were stalls and stalls of vegetables  just like
            Father's, and there were booths where meat and fish and wood and peat were sold. But the
            Twins could n't find anything they wanted that cost exactly two cents.
          At last, what should they see but Vrouw Van der Kloot's fat face smiling at them from a
            stall just full of cakes and cookies and bread, and chocolate, and honey cakes, and
            goodies of all kinds.
          The Twins held up their money.
          There on the counter was a whole row of St. Nicholas dolls with currant eyes, and they
            knew at once that there was nothing else in all the market they should like so much
          "Do these cost two cents apiece, dear Vrouw Van der Kloot?" asked Kat.
          "No," said Vrouw Van der Kloot; "they cost one cent apiece."
          The Twins were discouraged.
          "I don't believe there's a single thing in this whole market that costs just two
            cents," said Kat.


          

           


          



           


          "Keep still!" said Kit. "Let me think."
          They sat down on the curb. Kat kept still, and Kit took hold of his head with both
            hands and thought hard. He thought so hard that he scowled all over his forehead!
          "I tell you what it is, Kat," he said at last. "If those St. Nicholas dolls cost one
            cent apiece, I think we could get two of them for two cents."
          "O Kit," said Kat, "how splendidly you can think! Does it hurt you much? Let's ask
            Vrouw Van der Kloot."



          

          They went back to the good Vrouw, who was selling some coffee bread to a woman with a
            basket.
          "O Vrouw Van der Kloot," said Kat, "Kit says that if those St. Nicholas dolls cost one
            cent apiece, he thinks we could get two for two cents. Do you think
            so?"
          "Of course you can," said Vrouw Van der Kloot; and she winked at the lady with the
            bread.
          "But you've got two cents, and I 've got two," said Kat to Kit. "If you should get two
            St. Nicholas dolls, why, I should have my two cents left; should n't I? Oh! dear, it
            won't come out right anyway!"
          "Let me think some more," said Kit; and when he had thought some more, he said,
          "I'll tell you what let's! You get two with your two cents, and I '11 get two with
            mine! And I '11 give my other one to Mother and you can give your other one to
            Father!"


          

          "That's just what we'll do," said Kat.
          They went back to Vrouw Van der Kloot.
          "We 'll take four dolls," said Kat.
          "Well, well, well!" said the Vrouw. "So you've figured it all out, have you?" And she
            counted out the dolls--"One for Kit, and one for Kat, and one for Father, and one for
            Mother, and an extra one for good measure!"
          "O Kit, she's given us one more!" said Kat. "Let's eat it right now! Thank you, dear
            Vrouw Van der Kloot."
          So they ate up the one more then and there, beginning with the feet. Kit bit one off,
            and Kat bit the other; and they took turns until the St. Nicholas doll was all gone.
          Then they took the four others, said good-bye to the good Vrouw, and went back to
            Father's stall. They found that Father had sold all his things and was ready to go
            home.
          They carried their empty baskets back 
              to the boat, and soon were on their way home. The Twins sat on one
            seat, holding tight to their dolls, which were growing rather sticky.
          The boat was so light that they went home from market much more quickly than they had
            come, and it did not seem long before they saw their own house. There it was, with its
            mossy roof half hidden among the trees, and Vrouw Vedder waiting for them at the
            gate.



          

          Dinner was all ready, and the Twins set the four St. Nicholas dolls in a row, in the
            middle of the table.
          "There's one for Father, and one for Mother, and one for Kat, and one for me," said
            Kit.
          "O Mother," said Kat, "Kit can think! He thought just how many dolls he could buy when
            they were one for one cent! Is n't it fine that he can do that?"
          "You've learned a great deal at the market," said Vrouw Vedder. But Kit did n't say a
            word. He just looked proud and pleased and put his hands in his pockets.
          "By and by, when you are four and a half feet high and are called Christopher, you can
            go with Father every time," said Vrouw Vedder.
          "I can think a little bit, too," said Kat. "Can't I go?"
          "No," said Vrouw Vedder. "Girls should n't think much. It is n't good for them. Leave
            thinking to the men. You can stay at home and help me."


          



           




          



           
        




        

        

          III
          




          
            MOTHER'S DAY
          


          



           



          

          IIIMOTHER'S DAY

          "YESTERDAY was a very long day," said Vrouw Vedder on the morning
            after Market Day. "You were gone such a long time."
          Kat gave her mother a great hug.
          "We'll stay with you all day today, Mother," she said. "Won't we, Kit?"
          "Yes," said Kit; and he hugged her too.
          "And we'll help you just as much as we helped Father yesterday. Won't we, Kit?"
          "More," said Kit.
          "I should n't wonder!" said Father.
          "I shall be glad of help," said Vrouw Vedder, "because Grandma is coming, and I want
            everything to be very clean and tidy  when she comes. I'm
            going first to the pasture to milk the cow. You can go with me and keep the flies away.
            That will be a great help."
          Vrouw Vedder put a yoke across her shoulders, with hooks hanging from each end of it.
            Then she hung a large pail on one of the hooks, and a brass milk can on the other. She
            gave Kat a little pail to carry, and Kit took some switches from the willow tree in the
            yard, with which to drive away the flies. Then they all three started down the road to
            the pasture.
          Pretty soon they came to a little bridge over the canal, which they had to cross.
          "Oh, dear," said Kat, looking down at the water, "I'm scared!" You see, there was no
            railing at all to take hold of, and the bridge was quite narrow.
          "Ho! 'Fraidy cat!" said Kit. "I'll go first and show you how."
          "And I'll walk behind you," said Vrouw Vedder.
          Kat walked very slowly and held on hard 
              to her pail, and so she got over the bridge safely.
          "When I'm four feet and a half high, I'm going to jump over the canal on a jumping
            pole," said Kit.
          "O how brave you are" said Kat. "I should be scared. And besides I 'm afraid I should
            drop my shoes in the water."



          

          "Well, of course," said Kit, "boys can do a great many things that girls can't do."
          When they reached the pasture, there was Mevrouw Holstein waiting for them. Mevrouw
            Holstein was the cow's name. Kit and Kat named her.
          Vrouw Vedder tucked up her skirts--and that was quite a task, for she wore a great many
            of them --and sat down on a little stool. Kit and Kat stood beside her and waved their
            willow wands and said "Shoo!" to the flies; and Vrouw Vedder began to milk.
          Mevrouw Holstein had eaten so much of the green meadow grass that Vrouw Vedder filled
            both the big pail and the brass can, and the little pail too, with rich milk.
          "I shall have milk enough to make butter and cheese," said Vrouw Vedder. "There are no
            cows like our Dutch cows in all the world, I believe."
          "O Mother, are you going to churn today?" asked Kat.


          


           



          
          "Yes," said the Vrouw, "I have cream enough at home to make a good roll of butter, and
            you may help me if you will be very careful and work steadily."
          "I will be very steady," said Kat. "I'm big enough now to learn."
          "All Dutch girls must know how to make good butter and cheese," said Vrouw Vedder. 
          "And boys can drink the buttermilk," said Kit.
          "I'll drink some too," said Kat.
          "There'll be plenty for both," said their mother.
          When she had finished milking, Vrouw Vedder shook out her skirts, put the yoke across
            her shoulders again and lifted the large pail of milk. She hung it on one of the hooks
            and the brass milk can on the other. Kat took the small pail, and they started back
            home. The milk was quite heavy, so they walked slowly.
          They had crossed the bridge and were just turning down the road, when what should 
              they see but their old goose and gander walking along the road,
            followed by six little goslings!
          "O Mother, Mother," screamed Kat; "there is the old goose that we haven't seen for so
            long She has stolen her nest and hatched out six little geese all her own! They are
            taking them to the canal to swim."
          "Quick, Kit, quick!" said Vrouw Vedder. "Don't let them go into the canal! We must
            drive them home."
          Kit ran boldly forward in front of them, and Kat ran too. She spilled some of the milk;
            but she was in such a hurry that she never knew it until afterwards, when she found some
            in her wooden shoes!



          

           



          "K-s-s-s!" said the old goose; and she ran straight for the Twins with her mouth open
            and her wings spread! The old gander ran at them too. I can't begin to tell you how
            scared Kat was then! She stood right still and screamed.



          


          Kit was scared too; but he stood by Kat, like a brave boy, and shook his willow
            switches at the geese, and shouted "Shoo! Shoo!" just as he did at the flies.
          Vrouw Vedder set her pails down in the road and came up behind, flapping her apron.
            Then the old goose and the gander and all the little goslings started slowly along the
            road for home, saying cross words in Goose talk all the way!
          Father Vedder was working in the garden, when the procession came down the road. First
            came the geese, looking very  
             indignant, and the goslings. Then came Kit with the leaves
            all whipped off his willow switches. Then came Kat with her pail; and, last of all,
            Vrouw Vedder and the milk!
          When the new family of geese had been taken care of, and the fresh milk had been put
            away to cool, Vrouw Vedder got out her churn and scalded it well. Then she put in her
            cream, and put the cover down over the handle of the dasher.
          "Now, Kit and Kat, you may take turns," she said, "and see which one of you can bring
            the butter, but be sure you work the dasher very evenly or the butter will not be
            good."
          "Me first!" said Kat, and she began. Kit sat on a little stool and watched for the
            butter.
          Kat worked the dasher up and down, up and down. The cream splashed and splashed inside
            the churn, and a little white ring of spatters came up around the dasher.
          Kat worked until her arms ached.


          


           


          "Now it's my turn," said Kit. Then he took the dasher, and the cream splashed and
            splashed for quite a long time; but still the butter did not come.
          "Ho!" said Kat. "You're nothing but a boy. Of course you don't know how to churn. Let
            me try." And she took her turn.
          Dash! Splash! Splash, dash! She worked away; and very soon, around the  dasher, there was a ring of little specks of butter. 

              
                "Come, butter, come! Come, butter, come!
                Some for a honey cake, and some for a bun,"
              
             she sang in time to the dasher; and truly, when Vrouw Vedder opened the churn,
            there was a large cake of yellow butter!
          Vrouw Vedder took out the butter and worked it into a nice roll. Then she gave each of
            the Twins a cup of buttermilk to drink.
          While the Twins drank the buttermilk, their mother washed the churn and put it away.
            When she was all through, it was still quite early in the morning, because they had
            gotten up with the sun.
          "Now we must clean the house," she said.
          So she got out her scrubbing-brushes, and mops, and pails, and dusters, and began.
          First she shook out the pillows of the best bed, that nobody ever slept in, and pushed
            back the curtains so that the embroidered 
              coverlet could be seen. Then she put the other beds in order and drew
            the curtains in front of them.
          She dusted the linen press and left it open just a little, so that her beautiful rolls
            of white linen, tied with ribbons, would show. Kat dusted the chairs, and Kit carried
               the big brass jugs outside the kitchen door to be
            polished.
          Then they all three rubbed and scoured and polished them until they shone like the
            sun.
           

          "Now it is time to cook the dinner," said Vrouw Vedder. "We will have pork and potatoes
            and some cabbage. Kit, run to the garden and bring a cabbage; and Kat, you may get the
            fire ready to cook it, when Kit brings it in."


          


           


          Kat went to the stove--but it was such a funny stove! It was n't a stove at all,
            really.



          
          There was a sort of table built up against the chimney. It was all covered with pretty
            blue tiles, with pictures of boats on them. Over this table, there was a shelf, like a
            mantel shelf. There were plates on it, and from the bottom of the shelf hung some chains
            with hooks on them. The coals were right out on the little table.
          Kat took the bellows and--puff, puff, puff!--made the coals burn brighter. She peeped
            in the kettle to see that there was water in it. Then she put some more charcoal on the
            fire.
          Kit brought in the cabbage, and Vrouw Vedder cut it up and put it into the pot of water
            hanging over the fire. She put the pork and potatoes in too.
          In a little while the pot was bubbling away merrily; and Father Vedder, who was in the
            garden, sniffed the air and said,
          "I know what we are going to have for dinner."
          While the pot boiled, Vrouw Vedder scrubbed the floor and wiped the window.  Then she took her brooms and scrubbing-brush outside.
          She scrubbed the door and the outside of the house. She scrubbed the little pig with
            soap. The little pig squealed, because she got some soap in its eyes. She scrubbed the
            steps--and even the trunk of the poplar tree in the yard! She scrubbed everything in
            sight, except Father Vedder and the Twins! By and by she came to the door and
            called,
          "Come to dinner I Only be sure to leave your wooden shoes outside, when you come into
            my clean kitchen."
          Here are the shoes, just as they left them, all in a row. And as it was Saturday, the
            shoes were scrubbed too, that night.
          When the dinner was cleared away, Vrouw Vedder said to the Twins,


           



          



           



          "It is almost time for Grandmother to come. Let's walk out to meet her."
          They walked clear to the edge of the town before they saw her coming. They walked on
            top of the dyke, so they could look right down into the street, and see all the houses
            in a row. Grandmother was coming up the street with a basket on her arm.



          
          "What do you think is in that basket?" Vrouw Vedder asked the Twins.
          "Honey cake!" said Kit; and Kat said, "Candy!"
          And Kit and Kat were both right. There was a large honey cake and anise candies, and
            some currant buns besides!
          Grandmother let them peep in and see. They were very polite and did not ask for any --
            Vrouw Vedder was proud of the Twins' good manners. Grandmother said, 
           
          

          "This afternoon, when we have tea, you shall have some."
          "I'm glad I ate such a lot of dinner," said Kit to Kat, as they walked along; "or else
            I'd just have to have a bun this minute!"
          "Yes," said Kat, "it's much easier to be polite when you are n't hungry."
          When they got home, Kit and Kat took their Grandmother to see the new goslings, and to
            see the ducklings too. And Vrouw Vedder showed her the butter that Kit and Kat had
            helped to churn; and Grandmother said,
          "My, my! What helpers they are getting to be!" Then she said, "How clean the house is!"
            and then, "How the brasses shine!"
          "Yes," said Vrouw Vedder; "the Twins helped me make everything clean and tidy to show
            to you."
          "I guess it's time for honey cake," said Grandmother.
          Then Vrouw Vedder stirred up the fire again and boiled the kettle and made tea. She
            took down her best china cups and put them out on the round table.



          

           


          Then Grandmother opened her basket and took out the honey cake and buns and the candy;
            and Vrouw Vedder brought out her fresh butter.
          "I can't stay polite much longer," said Kit to Kat.
          Grandmother gave them each a thin slice of honey cake and a bun; and Vrouw Vedder
            spread some of the butter on the buns --and oh, how good they were! 
            

              
                "Some for a honey cake,
                And some for a bun,"
              
             sang Kat. It did n't take the Twins long to finish them.
          When they had drunk their tea, Grandmother brought out her knitting, and Mother Vedder
            began to spin.
          "How many rolls of linen have you ready for Kat when she marries?" Grandmother
            asked.
          "I try to make at least one roll each year; so she has four now and I am working on the
            fifth one," said Vrouw Vedder. "She shall be as well-to-do as any farmer's daughter near
            here, when she marries. See, this is the last one," and Vrouw Vedder took from the press
            a roll of beautiful white linen tied with blue ribbons.
          "Is that for me, Mother?" asked Kat.
          "Yes," said Vrouw Vedder. "When you marry, we shall have a fine press full of linen for
            you."
          "Is n't Kit going to have some too?" asked Kat.


          


          Grandmother laughed.
          "The mother of the little girl who will some day marry Kit, is working now on her
            linen, no doubt; so Kit won't need any of yours."


           


          The Twins looked very solemn and went out into the yard. They sat down on the bench by
            the kitchen door together. Then Kat said,
          "Kit, do you s'pose we 've got to be married?"


          
          "It looks like it," said Kit.
          Things seemed very dark indeed to the Twins.
          "Well," said Kat, "I just tell you I'm not going to do it. I 'm going to stay at home
            with Mother and Father, and you and the ducks and everything!"
          "What will they do with the linen then?" said Kit. "I guess you'll have to be married." 
          Kat began to cry.
          "I'll just go and ask Mother," she said.
          "I'll go with you," said Kit. "I don't want to any more than you do."
          So the Twins got down from the bench and went into the kitchen where Grandmother and
            Vrouw Vedder were.
          Their mother was spinning flax to make linen thread.
          "Mother," said the Twins, "will you please excuse us from being married."
          "O my soul!" said Vrouw Vedder. She seemed surprised.
          "We don't want to at all," said Kat. 
              "We'd rather stay with you."
          "You shan't be married until after you are four feet and a half high and are called
            Christopher and Katrina anyway," said Vrouw Vedder. "I promise you that."

          The Twins were much relieved. They went out and fed their ducklings. They felt so much
            better that they gave them an extra 
              handful of grain, and they carried a bun to Father Vedder, who was
            hoeing in the farthest corner of the garden. He ate it, leaning on his hoe.
          When they went back to the house, it was late in the afternoon. Grandmother was rolling
            up her knitting.
          "I must go home to Grandfather," she said. "He'll be wanting his supper."
          The Twins walked down the road as far as the first bridge with Grandmother. There she
            kissed them good-bye and sent them home.
          When their mother put them to bed that night, Kat said,


          
          "Has this been a short day, Mother?"
          "Oh, very short" said Vrouw Vedder, "because you helped me so much."
          Then she kissed them good-night and went out to feed the pigs, and shut up the chickens
            for the night.
          When she was gone, Kit said,
          "I don't see how they got along before we came. We help so much!"
          "No," said Kat; "I don't think --" But what she didn't think, no one will ever know,
            because just then she popped off to sleep.


          


           


        



        

        

          IV
          




          
            ONE SUNDAY
          


          




           





          

          IVONE SUNDAY

          ONE Sunday morning in early fall, Kit and Kat woke up and peeped out
            from their cupboard bed to see what was going on in the world.
          The sun was shining through the little panes of the kitchen window, making square
            patches of light on the floor. The kettle was singing on the fire, and Vrouw Vedder was
            already putting away the breakfast things.
          Father Vedder was lighting his pipe with a coal from the fire. He had on his black
            Sunday clothes, all ready for church. Father Vedder did not look at Kit and Kat at all.
            He just puffed away at his pipe and said to himself,
          "If there are any Twins anywhere that want to go to church with me, they'd better get
            dressed and eat their breakfasts."
          Kit and Kat tumbled out of the cupboard at once.


          

          Vrouw Vedder came to help them dress.
          I can't tell you how many petticoats she put on Kat, but it was ever so many. And over
            them all she put a skirt of plaid. There was a waist of a different color, and over that
            a kerchief with bright red roses on it. And over the skirt she put a new, clean
            apron.
          Kit was dressed very splendidly too. He had full baggy trousers of velveteen that
            reached to his ankles, and a jacket that buttoned with big silver buttons. His trousers
            had pockets in them.
          Kit and Kat both wore stockings, which Vrouw Vedder had knit, and their best shoes of
            stout leather.
          When they were all dressed, Vrouw Vedder stood them up side by side and had them turn
            around slowly to be sure they were all right.
          "Now see that you behave well in meeting," she said. "Sit up straight. Look at the
            Dominie, and do not whisper."
          "Yes, Mother," said Kit and Kat.



          

          Then she tied a big apron over each of them and gave them each a bowl of bread and
            milk. While they were eating it, Father Vedder went out and looked at the pigs, and
            chickens, and ducks, and geese, and smoked his pipe.
          When he came in, Kit and Kat were quite ready. Vrouw Vedder had tied on Kat's little
            white-winged cap, and put Kit's hat on. She kissed them good-bye, and they were off--
            one on each side of Father Vedder, holding tight to his hands.


           



          

          Mother Vedder looked after them proudly, from the doorway. She did not go to church
            that day.
          They walked slowly along the roadway in the bright sunshine. Many of their neighbors
            and friends, all dressed in their best, were walking to church, too.
          Father Vedder and Kit and Kat went a little out of their way, in order to pass a large
            windmill that was swinging its arms around and creaking out a kind of sleepy windmill
            song. This is the song it seemed to sing:--
          
            
              Around, and around, and around, I go,
              Sometimes fast and sometimes slow.
              I pump the water and grind the grain,
              The marshy fields of the Lowlands, drain.
              I harness the wind to turn my mill,
              Around, and around, and around with a will!
            
          


          Perhaps it was listening to the windmill song that made Kat say,
          "Why do we have windmills, father?"
           Kit and Kat said "Why?" every few steps on that walk. You see, they didn't often have
            their father all to themselves, to ask questions of.




          

          "Why, what a little Dutch girl," said Father Vedder, "not to know what windmills are
            for! They pump the water out of the fields, to be sure! Don't you know how wet the
            fields are sometimes? If we did n't keep pumping the water out, they would be so wet we
            could not make gardens at all."
          "Does the wind pump the water? " asked Kat.
          "Of course it does, goosie girl! and grinds the grain too. The wind blows against the
            great arms and turns them round and round. That works the pumps; and the pumps suck the
            water out of the fields, and it is poured out into the canals. If it were n't for the
            good old windmills working away, who knows but the water would get the best of us some
            day and cover up all our land!"
          "Would n't the dykes keep out the sea?" asked Kit.
          "Suppose the dykes should break!" said Father Vedder. "Even one little break can let in
            lots of water. The dykes have to be  watched day and night
            all the time, and the least bit of a hole stopped up right away, so it can't grow any
            bigger and let in the sea."
          "Oh dear," Kat said, "what a leaky country!" 
          She ran near the mill and let the wind from the fans blow her hair and the white wings
            on her cap.
          As the great fans swung near the ground, Kit jumped up and caught hold of one. It
            lifted him right off the ground as it swung around, and in a minute he was dangling high
            in the air.
          "Jump, jump, quick," shouted Father Vedder.
          Kit let go and dropped to the ground just in time. In another minute he would have been
            carried clear over.
          As it was, he sat down very hard on the ground, and had to have the dirt brushed off of
            his Sunday clothes.
          "I am surprised at you," Father Vedder said, while he brushed him. "You are too 
             
             small to swing on windmills, and besides it is the Sabbath
            day. Don't you ever do it again until you are big enough to be called Christopher!"
          Sitting down so hard in the dirt had hurt Kit a little bit, and scared him a good deal,
            so he said, "No, father."
          Then they walked all around the mill. They peeped inside a door which was open, and saw
            the pumps working away.
          "Yes," said Father Vedder, "it is nip and tuck between wind and water in Holland. Let
            us sit down here on the canal bank, in the sunshine, and I will tell you what hard work
            has to be done to keep this good land of ours. And it is a good land! We should be
            thankful for it! Just see the rich green meadows over there, with the cows grazing in
            them"--Father Vedder pointed to the beautiful fields across the canal. "The grass is so
            rich and fresh, that the cows here give more milk than any other cows in the whole
            world!"
          "That's what Mother says," said Kat.



          

           

          "The Holland butter and cheese are famous everywhere," went on Father Vedder; "and we
            have all the good milk we want to drink, besides. The Dutch gardens, too, are the finest
            in the world."
          "And ours is one of the best of Dutch gardens, is n't it, Father?" said Kit.



          
          "It's a very good garden," said Father Vedder, proudly. "No one can raise better onions
            and cabbage and carrots than I can. And the Dutch bulbs! Our tulips and hyacinths make
            the whole world bloom!"
          "Holland is really the greatest country there is; is n't it?" said Kit.
          "We--ll, not in point of size, perhaps," Father Vedder admitted; "but in pluck, my boy,
            it is! Did you know that sometimes people call Holland the Land of Pluck?"
          "I don't see why," said Kat. "I'm Dutch, but I 'm afraid of lots of things! I 'm afraid
            of spiders and of cross geese, and of falling into the water!"
          "You're a girl, if you are Dutch," said Kit. "Boys are always pluckier than girls; are
            n't they, Father?"
          "Really plucky people never boast," said Father Vedder.
          Kit looked the other way and dug the toe of his shoe into the dirt. Kat snuggled up to
            her Father and sniffed at Kit.
          "So there, Kit!" was all she said.



          
          "There's pluck enough to go round," said Father Vedder mildly, "and we all need it
            --boys and girls, and men and women too. It was pluck that made Holland, and it's pluck
            that keeps her from slipping back into the sea."
          "How did pluck make Holland?" asked Kit.
          "There was n't any Holland in the first place," Father Vedder answered. "There were
            only some marshes and some lands under water. But people built a wall of earth around
            these flats; and then they pumped out the water from the space inside the wall, and made
            canals through the land, and drained it. And after all that work, we have our rich
            fields."
          "How does pluck keep them?" asked Kat.
          "The dykes have to be watched and mended all the time," said Father Vedder. "And the
            windmills have to work and work, to keep the fields drained. No one can be lazy in
            Holland. Each one has to work well for what he gets. If Holland should grow  lazy, she would soon be back again in the Zuyder Zee! So, my
            children, you see you must learn well and work hard. And that is all my sermon
            to-day."
          "It is a better sermon than the Dominie will preach, I know," said Kat.
          "Tut, tut! You must never say such things," said Father Vedder. He got up and held out
            his hands to the Twins.
          "Come! we must walk along, or we shall be late for church," he said. " Here comes the
            Dominie now."
          There indeed was the Dominie! Kit and Kat knew him well. No one else dressed as he did.
            He wore a high silk hat, and long, black coat and trousers, such as city people
            wear.
          As he came along the road, all the people bowed respectfully; the little boys took off
            their caps, and the little girls bobbed a courtesy. Kit and Kat bobbed and courtesied
            too, and the Dominie smiled at them and laid his hand on Kit's head.
          "I wish he'd come to see us again," said Kit, after the Dominie had passed by.



          

           


          Father Vedder was pleased.
          "I am glad to see that you love your pastor, my son," he said.
          "Well," said Kit, "I don't really like him so very much, because we
            have to be washed, and recite the catechism, and mind all our manners when he comes. But
            Mother always has such good things to eat when the Dominie comes--does n't she,
            Kat?--cake and preserves--and everything!"
          "If it were n't for the catechism and such  things, it
            would be something like St. Nicholas day!" sighed Kat. "But the Dominie never forgets!
            And last time I could n't tell what saving grace was! The cakes are good, but --"
          "Good Dutch boys and girls always learn their catechism well," said Father Vedder;
            "then they are glad to see the good Dominie as well as the cakes. Now no more chatter!
            Here is a penny for each of you to put in the bag when it is passed."
          He gave them each a penny. Kit put his in his pocket. Kat didn't have a pocket, so she
            held hers tight in her hand.
          At the church door they met Grandfather and Grandmother.
          Grandfather looked very fine indeed, in his black clothes; and Grandmother was all
            dressed up in her best black dress, with a fresh white cap, and a shawl over her
            shoulders. She carried a large psalm book with golden clasps in one hand, and a scent
            bottle in the other. She had some peppermints too. Kit and Kat smelled them.


          


           

          They all went into the church together, and an old woman led them to their seats. Kit
            and Kat sat one each side of Grandmother. Grandfather and Father Vedder sat on the other
            side of the church with all the rest of the men.



          

          "You must sit very still and look straight before you," said Grandmother.
          Kit remembered the peppermints and sat up like a soldier. So did Kat.
          Pretty soon the schoolmaster came in and went up into the pulpit. He read a chapter
            from the Bible, and then the Dominie stood up in the pulpit and began to preach. He
            preached a long time.
          Kit and Kat tried very hard to sit still, just as Grandmother had said; but pretty soon
            their heads began to nod.
          Grandmother gave them each a peppermint. 
          They waked up for a minute. But the Dominie kept right on preaching, until they were
            both sound asleep with their heads on Grandmother's shoulders,--one on each side; and if
            they had been awake to see, they might have thought that Grandmother took a nap too.
           The sermon was so very long that a great many people went to sleep. So, by and by, the
            Dominie said,



          


           

          "We will all sing the Ninety-first Psalm."
          Everybody woke up.
          Grandmother opened the great golden clasps of her psalm book, and stood up with all the
            rest of the people. She stood up quickly, so that no one would think she had been
            asleep. She forgot that the Twins were asleep too, with their heads on her shoulders.
            That was why, when she got up, Kit and Kat fell against each other and bumped their
            heads!



          


           

          They forgot that they were in church. They said "Ow!" both together, and Kat began to
            cry. But Grandmother said "Sh! sh!" and gave them each a peppermint; and that made them
            feel much better.
          Pretty soon the schoolmaster came along with a little bag on the end of a long stick.
            He passed it to each person. Kit and Kat each put in a penny, though Kit had a hard time
            to get his out of his pocket. But Grandmother was so upset about the Twins getting
            bumped, that she forgot and put in a peppermint instead.



          

          When church was over and they were out on the street again, Grandmother said,
          "Now you are coming home with me to stay all night."
          "Really and truly?" said the Twins. "And may we go with Grandfather to carry the milk
            in the morning?"
          "Yes," said Grandfather, "and Kit may drive the dogs."
          Kit jumped right up and down, he was so happy--even if it was Sunday.
          "May I too?--May I too?" asked Kat.
          "You are a girl," said Grandfather. "You may ride in the wagon."
          "Oh, I wish to-morrow would come right away," said Kat.
          Then Kit and Kat said good-bye to Father Vedder and went home with Grandmother and
            Grandfather.
          They lived on a little street in the town, where the houses stood in a row close
            together. The houses were built of brick and had wooden shutters at the windows, and
            they were so clean they shone in the sun.


          

           


          This is a picture of Grandmother's house and of Grandmother and Kit and Kat going in.
            The door opened right into the kitchen.
          Grandmother put away her shawl and psalm book and scent bottle as soon as she was home.
            Then she put on a big apron and drew out the round table.
          She boiled the kettle and made coffee;  and, when it was
            done, she set the coffee--pot on a pretty little porcelain stove on the table to keep
            hot. She got out bread and cheese and smoked beef and, best of all, a plate of little
            cakes.
          Then they all four sat down to eat. I will not tell you how many cakes Kit and Kat ate,
            but it was a good many.
          After dinner, Grandmother put away the things, and Kat helped her.
          Kit sat beside Grandfather in the doorway while he smoked. Pretty soon Grandfather
            said,
          "Bring me my accordeon, Kit."
          Kit ran to the press in the corner. He knew where the accordeon was kept.
          Then Grandfather took the accordeon, tipped his head back, shut his eyes and began to
            play, beating time with one foot. Kat heard the music and came out too.
          She and Kit sat down on the doorstep, one on each side of Grandfather, to listen.
          Grandfather played six tunes.
          Then Grandmother said,



          



           

          "Why don't we go to the woods to hear the band play?"
          "No reason at all," said Grandfather. So very soon they were on their way to a grove on
            the edge of the town.
          In the grove a band was playing; and just as the Twins and Grandfather and Grandmother
            came up, it began to play the national hymn of Holland. All the people  began to sing. There were a great many people in the grove,
            and they all sang as loud as they could; so there was a great sound. Grandfather and
            Grandmother and Kit and Kat all sang too; for they all knew every word of the hymn.

          This is what they sang: --
          
            
              Let him in whom old Dutch blood flows,
              Untainted, free and strong;
              Whose heart for Prince and Country glows,
              Now join us in our song;
              Let him with us lift up his voice,
              And sing in patriot band,
              The song at which all hearts rejoice,
              For Prince and Fatherland,
              For Prince and Fatherland.
            

            
              We brothers, true unto a man,
              Will sing the old song yet;
              Away with him who ever can
              His Prince or Land forget!
              A human heart glowed in him ne'er,
              We turn from him our hand,
              Who callous hears the song and prayer,
              For Prince and Fatherland,
              For Prince and Fatherland.
            



            


            
              Preserve, O God, the dear old ground
              Thou to our fathers gave;
              The land where we a cradle found,
              And where we'll find a grave!
              We call, O Lord, to Thee on high,
              As near death's door we stand,
              Oh! Safety, blessing to our cry
              For Prince and Fatherland,
              For Prince and Fatherland.
            

            
              Loud ring thro' all rejoicings here,
              Our prayer, O Lord, to Thee;
              Preserve our Prince, his house so dear
              To Holland great and free!
              From youth thro' life, be this our song,
              Till near to death we stand:
              O God, preserve our sov'reign long,
              Our Prince and Fatherland,
              Our Prince and Fatherland.
            
          

           Now, while the people were singing with all their might, and the band was playing, and
            Kit and Kat were having the most beautiful time they had ever had in their whole lives,
            what do you think happened?
          Down the long drive through the trees came a great, splendid carriage, drawn by 
              a pair of beautiful white horses with wavy white tails and manes.
            There were two soldiers on horseback riding in front of the carriage, and the driver of
            the carriage was dressed in blue and orange livery.
          The carriage was open, and in it sat a beautiful, smiling young lady. Beside her sat
            her husband; and a nurse, in the other seat, held a baby in her arms.



          


           

          When the people saw the carriage and the lady, they waved their caps and shouted, "Long
            live the Queen!"
          "Look! Look! Kit and Kat," said Grandfather. "It is your dear Queen Wilhelmina, and
            Prince Henry and the little Princess! Wave your hands!"
          Kit and Kat waved with all their might, but they were so short, and the people  crowded beside the driveway so, that neither of them could
            see. Then Grandfather caught Kit and lifted him up high, and Grandmother did the same
            with Kat.
          It was fine to be up so high. Kit and Kat could see everything better than anyone else
            there. And when the carriage came by, the Queen saw Kit and Kat! She smiled at them, and
            the nurse held the little Princess up high for them to see! Kit and Kat threw kisses to
            the little Princess; and the Princess waved her baby hand to Kit and Kat; and then they
            were all gone--like a bright dream.
          But the soldiers were better to see even than queens, Kit thought. Kat thought the baby
            --any baby--was nicer than either.
          When the carriage was out of sight, Grandfather and Grandmother set the Twins down on
            the ground. Everyone began to talk about the Queen, about how sweet she was, and how
            good; and the band played, and everybody was as happy as they could possibly be.



          
          By and by it was time to go home; for, Grandfather said, "Dutch girls and boys must
            learn to get up early in the morning, especially Twins that are going out with the milk
            cart."
          So they went back to Grandfather Winkle's house; and Grandmother put them to bed in a
            little cupboard like their own at home, after they had had some supper. And the last
            thing Kat said that night was,
          "O Kit, just to think that to-day we saw the Queen and the soldiers, and the Queen's
            baby, and to-morrow we are going to drive in the milk cart! What a beautiful world it
            is!"
          Just as they were dropping off to sleep, they heard a great noise in the street.
          "Clap, clap, clap," it sounded, eight times.
          "There goes the Klapper-man," said Grandmother Winkle. "Eight o'clock, and time all
            honest folk were abed."





          





           





          



           



        
        


        

          V
          

          
            THE DAY THEY DROVE THE
            
            MILK CART
          


          


           




          




          VTHE DAY THEY DROVE THEMILK CART


          THE next morning Kit and Kat woke up very early, without any one's
            calling them. You see, they were afraid they would be too late to go with the milk
            cart.
          But Grandfather Winkle had only just gone out to get the milk ready, and they had
            plenty of time to dress while Grandmother got breakfast. Grandmother helped with the
            buttons and the hard parts.
          Grandmother Winkle's kitchen was quite like the kitchen at home, only a little nicer.
            It had red tiles on the floor; and it had ever so many blue plates hanging around on the
            walls, and standing on edge in a row on the shelves. There was a warming-pan with a
            bright brass cover, hanging on the wall; and I wish you could have seen the pillows and
            the coverlet on the best bed!



          

          Grandmother Winkle had embroidered those all herself, and she was very proud of them.
            When she had company, she always drew the curtains back so that her beautiful bed would
            be seen. She said that Kit and Kat were company, and she always left the curtains open
            when they came to visit her.
          When the Twins were all dressed, Grandmother said,
          "Mercy sakes! You have on your best clothes! Now that's just like a man to promise to
            take you out in your best clothes in a milk wagon! Whatever was Grandfather thinking
            about!"
          Kit and Kat thought she was going to say that they could n't go, so they dug their
            knuckles in their eyes and began to cry. But they had n't got farther than the first
            whimper when Grandmother said,
          "Well, well, we must fix it somehow. Don't cry now, that's a good Kit and Kat." So the
            Twins took their knuckles out of their eyes and began to smile.



          



           



          Grandmother went to the press and brought out two aprons. One was a very small apron.
            It would n't reach to Kit's knees. But she put it on him and tied it around his
            waist.
          "This was your Uncle Jan's when he was a little boy," she said. "It's pretty small, but
            it will help some."
          Kit wished that Uncle Jan had taken it with him when he went to America. But he did n't
            say so.



          


           



          Then Grandmother took another apron out of the press. It looked as if it had been there
            a long time.
          "Kat, you must wear this," she said. "It was your mother's when she was a little
            girl."
          Now, this apron was all faded, and it had patches on it of different kinds of cloth.
            Kat looked at her best dress. Then she looked at the apron. Then she thought about the
            milk cart. She wondered if she  wanted to go in the milk
            cart badly enough to wear that apron over her Sunday dress! She stuck her finger in her
            mouth and looked sidewise at Grandmother Winkle.
          Grandmother did n't say a word. She just looked firm and held up the apron.
          Very soon Kat came slowly--very slowly--and Grandmother buttoned the apron up behind,
            and that was the end of that.
          The Twins could hardly eat any breakfast, they were in such a hurry to go. As soon as
            they had taken the last spoonful, and Grandfather Winkle had finished his coffee, they
            ran out into the place where the dogs were kept, to help Grandfather harness them.
          There were two black and white dogs. Their names were Peter and Paul.
          The wagon was small, just the right size for the dogs; and it was painted blue. The
            bright brass cans full of milk were already in; and there was a little seat for Kat to
            sit on.


          



           


          When the last strap was fastened, Grandfather lifted Kat up and set her on the seat.
            She held on with both hands.
          Then Grandfather gave the lines to Kit, and a little stick for a whip, and told him to
            walk slowly along beside the dogs. He told him to be sure not to let go of the
            lines.



          

          Grandfather walked behind, carrying some milk cans.
          Grandmother stood in the door to see them off; and, as they started away, Kat took one
            hand off the cart long enough to wave it to her. Then she held on again; for the bricks
            in the pavement made the cart joggle a good deal.
          "We must go first to Vrouw de Vet," Grandfather called out. "She takes one quart of
            milk. Go slowly."
          At first Kit went slowly. But pretty soon there was a great rattling behind him; and
            Hans Hite, a boy he knew, drove right past him with his dog cart! He drove fast; and, as
            he passed Kit, he stuck out his tongue and called out,
          
            
              "Milk for sale! Milk for sale!
              A milk cart drawn by a pair of snails!"
            
          
          Kit forgot all about going slowly.
          "Get up!" he said to the dogs, and he touched them with his long stick.
          Peter and Paul "got up." They jumped forward and began to run!



          


           



          Kit ran as fast as his legs would go beside the dogs, holding the lines. But the dogs
            had four legs apiece, and Kit had only two; so you see he could n't keep up very
            well.
          Kat began to scream the moment that Peter and Paul began to run. The dogs thought that
            something that made a dreadful noise was after them, and they ran faster  than ever. You see, Grandfather Winkle never in the world
            screamed like that, and Peter and Paul did n't know what to make of it. So they ran and
            ran and ran.
          Kat held on the best she could, but she bounced up ever so far in the air every time
            the cart struck a bump in the street. So did the milk cans; and when they came down
            again, the milk splashed out.
          Kat did n't always come down in the same spot. All the spots were hard, so it didn't
            really matter much which one she struck as she came down.
          But Kat did n't think about that; she just screamed. And Peter and Paul ran and ran,
            and Kit ran and ran, until he could n't run any more; he just sat down hard on the
            pavement and slid along. But he did n't let go of the lines!
          When Kit sat down, it jerked the dogs so hard that they stopped suddenly. But Kat
            didn't stop; she went right on. She flew out over the front of the cart and landed on
            the ground, among all of Peter  and Paul's legs! Then she
            stopped going, but she did n't stop screaming.
          And, though Kit was a boy, he screamed some too. Then Peter and Paul pointed their
            noses up in the air and began to howl.
          Way back, ever so far, Grandfather was coming along as fast as he could; but that was
            n't very fast.
          All the doors on the street flew open, and all the good housewives came clattering out
            to see what was the matter. They picked Kat up and told her not to cry, and wiped her
            eyes with their aprons, and stood Kit on his feet, and patted the dogs; and pretty soon
            Peter and Paul stopped barking, and Kit and Kat stopped screaming, and then it was time
            to find out what had really happened.
          Neither of the Twins had any broken bones; the good housewives wiggled all their arms
            and legs, and felt of their bones to see. But shocking things had happened,
            nevertheless! Kat had torn a great hole in the front of her best dress; and Kit had 
              worn two round holes in the seat of his Sunday clothes, where he slid
            along on the pavement; and, besides that, the milk was slopped all over the bottom of
            the cart!
          Just then Grandfather came up. If it had n't been that his pipe was still in his mouth,
            I really don't know what he might not have said! He looked at the cart, and he looked at
            the Twins. Then he took his pipe out of his mouth and said sternly to Kit,



          

           

          "Why didn't you do as I told you?"
          "I did," said Kit, very much scared. "You told me to be sure to hold tight to the
            lines, and I did! I never let go once."
          "Yes, and look at his clothes," said one of the women. She turned him around and showed
            Grandfather the holes.



          

          "I told you to go slowly," said Grandfather. "Now look at the cart, and see what you've
            done by not minding,--spoiled your best clothes and Kat's, and spilled the milk! Go back
            to Grandmother."
          "But I could n't mind twice at one time," said Kit. "I was minding about not letting
            go."
          "Oh dear," sobbed Kat, "I wish we were four and a half feet high now! If we were, this
            never would have happened."
          Grandfather took the dogs and went on to Vrouw de Vets, without another word.
          The Twins took each other's hands, and walked back to Grandmother's house. Quite a
            number of little boys and girls in wooden shoes clattered along with them. Grandmother
               
             heard all the noise, and ran to the door to see what was
            the matter.
          "Laws a mercy me, I told you so!" she cried, the moment she saw them. "Look at your
            clothes! See how you've torn them!"
          "I can't see the holes in mine," said Kit.
          "But I can," said Kat. And then all the children talked at once; and what with wooden
            shoes and the tongues all going, Grandmother clapped her hands over her ears to shut out
            the noise. Then she took Kit and Kat into the kitchen and shut the door. She put on her
            glasses and got down on the floor so she could see better.
          Then she turned Kit and Kat all around and looked at the holes. "O! my soul!" she said.
            She took off the aprons and the torn clothes and put the Twins to bed while she
            mended.
          She got out a pair of Grandfather's oldest velveteen breeches that had been patched a
            great deal, and found a good piece to patch with. Then she patched the holes in 
              Kit's breeches so neatly that one had to look very carefully indeed
            to see that there had ever been any holes there at all.
          Then she patched Kat's dress; and, when it was all done, she shook it out and said to
            herself,
          "Seems to me those Twins have been quiet for a long time."
          She went over to the cupboard bed; and there were Kit and Kat fast asleep, with their
            cheeks all stained with tears and dirt. Grandmother 
            Winkle kissed them. Kit and Kat woke up, and Grandmother dressed them in their Sunday
            clothes again, and washed their faces and made them feel as good as new.
          By and by Grandfather Winkle came home from going about with the milk. Grandmother
            Winkle scrubbed the cart and made it all clean again; and by noon you would never have
            known, unless you had looked very, very closely--much more closely than would be
            polite--that anything had happened to the Twins or the milk cart, or their clothes or
            anything.
          After they had eaten their dinner, and the dogs were rested and Grandfather had smoked
            his pipe he said,
          "Kit, if you think you can mind, I will take you and Kat both home in the dog cart."
            Kit and Kat both nodded their heads very hard. "Only, I'll do the driving myself," said
            Grandfather Winkle. And he did.
          He put Kit and Kat both on the seat, and  he walked
            slowly beside the cart. They went out on the road beside the canal toward home. They got
            there just as the sun was getting low in the west, and Vrouw Vedder was going out to
            feed her chickens.

           

        

        


         


        

        

          VI
          

          
            THE DAY THEY GOT THEIR
            
            SKATES
          

          


           


          

          VITHE DAY THEY GOT THEIRSKATES

          ONE morning, when Kit and Kat ran out early to feed their ducklings,
            the frost nipped their noses and ears.
          "It's getting colder everyday. Very soon winter will come," Kat said.
          They ran down to the canal. The old goose and the gander and the goslings--now half
            grown--were standing on the bank, looking unhappy: there was a thin sheet of ice all
            over the canal, and they could not go swimming.
          Kit took a stick and broke the ice. Thin sheets of it, like pieces of broken glass,
            were soon floating about; and the old goose, the gander, and all the goslings went down
            the bank in a procession into the water.



          

          They swam about among the pieces of ice for a while, but it was so cold that they soon
            came up on the bank into the sun again and wiggled their tails to shake out the water.
            Then they all sat down in the sun to get their feet warm.
          Kit and Kat ran up and down the road and played tag until their cheeks were red and
            they were warm as toast. Then they ran into Vrouw Vedder's warm kitchen. 
          The kettle was singing on the fire, and there was a smell of coffee in the air. Vrouw
            Vedder gave the Twins some in a large cup. She put in a good deal of milk and gave them
            each a piece of sugar to sweeten it with.
          "Is it Sunday?" asked Kat. On Sundays they sometimes had coffee. On other days they had
            milk.
          "No," said Vrouw Vedder; "but it is cold, and I thought a cup of coffee would warm us
            all up."
          While they were drinking their coffee,  Kit and Kat
            talked about the ice, and what fun they would have with their sleds on the canals when
            winter came.
          "I tell you what it is, Kat," said Kit; "I think we're big enough to have skates. Hans
            Hite is n't much bigger than I am, and he had skates last winter. I mean to ask Father
            this very day."
          "Yah," said Kat--that is the way Dutch Twins always say yes--"Yah, and let us be very
            good and help mother all we can. I think maybe they will give skates to good Twins quite
            soon, even if we are n't very big yet--not big enough to be called Christopher and
            Katrina."
          Vrouw Vedder was heating water and getting out her scrubbing brushes, so Kit and Kat
            knew that she was going to clean something.
          "What are you going to scrub to-day, Mother?" asked Kit.
          "I'm going to scrub the stable," said Vrouw Vedder. "It is getting too cold for the
            cows to stay all night in the pastures.



          

          Father means to bring Mevrouw Holstein in to-night, and I want her stable to be nice
            and clean for her."
          "We'll help you," said Kit and Kat very politely.
          "Good children!" their mother said. "You may carry the brushes." So they opened a door
            beside the fireplace, and walked right into the stable.
          The stable was really a part of the house. There were two stalls in the stable. Vrouw
            Vedder took her pails of water and her brushes and began to scrub. She scrubbed the
            walls, and the sides of the stalls, and the floor. The Twins scrubbed, too, until they
            were tired; and the stable was so clean, you would have liked to live there yourself. 
          "Let's play out here," said Kat. "Let's play house."
          "All right," said Kit. "I'll be the father, and you be the mother."
          "But who will be Twins?" said Kat.
          "Let's get the ducklings," said Kit.



          

          "They can be Twins, of course," said Kat. "They are, anyway."
          So Kit ran out and brought in the ducklings. They were so tame they always ran to Kit
            and Kat, when they saw them coming. They were almost ducks now, they had grown so
            big.
          "Let's give the Twins their dinner," said Kat. So she got some grain, and they both sat
            down on a little box and held the ducks in their laps and fed them from their hands. The
            ducks ate greedily.
          "You have very bad manners," said Kat. "You will get your clothes all dirty." She took
            two rags and tied them around the ducks' necks for bibs. The ducks did not like bibs.
            They quacked.
          "Now don't say anything like that," said Kat. "You must do just as you are told and not
            spill your food."
          Then Kit got some water and a spoon and gave the Twins a drink, but they did not like
            the drink either.
          "Now we must put them to sleep," said 
              Kat. They rocked the ducks in their arms, but the ducks squawked
            dreadfully.
          "What bad children to cry so" said Kit. "You can have both the Twins"; and he gave his
            duck to Kat.
          "You fix a bed for them," said Kat. So Kit turned up the box they had been sitting on,
            and put some hay in it; and they put the ducks in on the hay.
          Pretty soon the ducks went to sleep. Kit and Kat ran away to play out of doors and
            forgot all about them.


          

          They did n't think about them again until Father Vedder came home at night with Mevrouw
            Holstein. When he put the cow into the stall, he stumbled over the box. It was rather
            dark in the stable.
          "Quack, quack!" said the ducks.
          Kit and Kat were helping Father put the cow into the stall and get some hay for her.
            When the ducks quacked, Father Vedder said,
          "What in the world is this?"
          "Oh, our Twins! our Twins!" cried Kit and Kat. "Don't let Mevrouw Holstein step on the
            Twins!"
          Father Vedder pulled out the box. Kit and Kat each took a duck and carried it out to
            the poultry house.
          "Twins are a great care," said Kit and Kat.
          "Now is the time to ask," whispered Kat to Kit, that night, when Father Vedder had
            finished his supper and was lighting his pipe. "You must ask very politely, --just the
            very politest way you can."


          

          They went and stood before their father. They put their feet together. Kit made a bow,
            and Kat bobbed a curtsy.
          "Dear parent," said Kit.
          "That's a good start," whispered Kat. "Go on."
          "Well, well, what now?" said Father Vedder.
          "Dear parent, Kat and I are quite big now. I think we must be nearly
            four feet and a half high. Don't you think we are big enough to have skates this
            winter?"
          "So that's it!" said Father Vedder. Then he smoked his pipe again.
          "There was ice on the canal this morning," said Kat.
          "So you think you are big enough to skate, do you?" said Father Vedder, at last. Mother
            Vedder was clearing away the supper. "What do you think about it, Mother?" said Father
            Vedder.
           "They have been very good children," said the Vrouw. "There are the skates you and I
            had when we were children. We might  try them on and see
            if they are big enough to wear them. They are in the bag hanging back of the press."
          Kit and Kat almost screamed with joy.
          "Our feet are quite large. I'm sure we can wear them," they said.
          Father Vedder got the bag down and took out two pairs of skates. They had long curling
            ends on the runners. The Twins sat down on the floor. Father Vedder tried on the
            skates.
          "They are still pretty large; but you will grow," he told the Twins. "You may have
               
             them if you will be very careful and not let them get
            rusty. By and by we will teach you to skate."
          The Twins practiced standing in the skates on the kitchen floor; and, when bedtime
            came, they took the skates to bed with them.
          "O Kit," said Kat, "I never supposed we'd get them so soon. Did you?"
          "Well," said Kit, "you see, we're pretty big and very good. That
            makes a difference." 
          "It's very nice to be good when people notice it, is n't it?" said Kat.
          "Yah," said Kit. "I'm going to be good now right along, all the time; for very soon St.
            Nicholas will come, and he leaves only a rod in the shoes of bad children. And if you've
            been bad, you have to tell him about it."
          "Oh! Oh!" said Kat. "I'm going to be good all the time too. I'm going to be good until
            after the feast of St. Nicholas, anyway." 




          

           Not many days after Kit and Kat got their skates, there came a cold, cold wind. It
            blew over the fields and over the canals all day and all night long; and in the morning,
            when the Twins looked out, the canal was one shining roadway of ice.
          Father Vedder came in from the stable with a great pail full of milk.
          "Winter is here now, for good and all," he said, as he set the pail down. "The canals
            are frozen over, and soon it will be the day for the feast of St. Nicholas."
          Kit and Kat ran to him and said, both together,
          "Dear Father Vedder, will you please teach us to skate before St.
            Nicholas Day?"
          "I'll see if the ice is strong enough to bear," said Father Vedder; and he went right
            down to the canal to see, that very minute. When he came in, he said,
          "Yes, the ice is strong; and we will go out as soon as you are ready, and try your
            skates."
          Vrouw Vedder said,



          

          "I should like to go too"; and Father Vedder said to Kit and Kat,
          "Your mother used to be the finest skater in the whole village when she was a young
            girl. You must not let her beat you."
          They hurried through with their work--Kit and Kat helped. Then they all put on their
            heavy shoes and wraps, took their skates over their shoulders, and started for the
            canal.
          "If you learn to skate well enough, we will take you to town before the feast of St.
            Nicholas," said Father Vedder. "But it comes very soon."
          He put on his own skates and Kit's, and the mother put on her own and Kat's.
          "I'm sure we can do it almost right away," said Kat.
          "Now we'll show you how to skate," said Father Vedder. He stood the Twins up on the
            ice. They held each other's hands. They were afraid to move. Father Vedder took Mother
            Vedder's hand.
          "See," he said, "like this!" And away 
              they went like two swallows, skimming over the ice. In a minute they
            were ever so far away.
          Kit and Kat felt lonesome, and very queer, when they saw their father and mother flying
            along in that way. They were n't used to see them do anything but work, and move about
            slowly.
          "It looks easy," said Kit. "Let's try it. We must not be afraid."
          He started with his right leg, pushing it out a little in front of him. But it was very
            strange how his legs acted. They did n't  seem to belong
            to him at all! His left leg tried to follow his right, just as it ought to; but,
            instead, it slid out sidewise and knocked against Kat's skates. Then both Kat's feet
            flew up; and she sat down very hard, on the ice. And Kit came down on top of her.
          They tried to get up; but, each time they tried, their feet slid away from them.
          "Oh dear," said Kat, "we are all mixed up! Are those your feet or mine? I can't tell
            which is which!"
          "They don't any of them mind," said Kit. "I can't stand up on any of them. I 've tried
            them all! We'll just have to wait until Father and Mother come back and pick us
            out."
          "Ice is quite cold to sit on, is n't it?" said Kat.
          Soon Father and Mother Vedder came skimming back again. When they saw Kit and Kat, they
            laughed and skated to them, picked them up, and set them on their feet.
          "Now I'll take Kit, and you take Kat,"  said Vrouw Vedder
            to her husband, "and they'll be skating in no time." So Kat's father took her hands, and
            Kit took hold of his mother's, and they started off.
          At first the Twins' feet did n't behave well at all. They seemed to want to do
            everything they could to bother them. They would sprawl way apart; then they would toe
            in and run into each other.
          Many times Kit and Kat would have fallen if Father and Mother Vedder had not held them
            up; but before the lesson was over, both Kit and Kat could skate a little bit alone.

          "See, this is the way," said Vrouw Vedder; and she skated around in a circle. Then she
            cut a figure like this  in the ice. Then Father Vedder did a figure like this
             all on one foot.
          "My" said Kit and Kat.
          "I think our parents must skate the best of all the people in the world," said Kat.
          "I'm going to some day," said Kit.
          "So'm I," said Kat.


          

          After a while Vrouw Vedder said,
          "It's time to go home. Not too much the first time." So they all went back home with
            their cheeks as red as roses, and their noses too, and such an
            appetite for dinner!
          But the Twins were a little lame next day.
          Every day after that, Kit and Kat went out with their skates to the ditches and tried
            and tried to skate as Father and Mother did--they did so want to skate to town and see
            the sights before the feast of St. Nicholas! They worked so hard that in a week they
            could skate very well; and then they planned a surprise for their mother.
          "If you will watch at the window, you'll see a great sight on the canal very soon,"
            said Kit to his mother one day.
          Of course Vrouw Vedder had n't the least idea what it would be
          Kit and Kat slipped out through the stable and ran down to the ditch. They put on their
            skates and skated from the ditch out to the big canal.




          

          Vrouw Vedder was watching at the window. Soon she saw Kit and Kat go flying by, hand in
            hand, on the canal! They waved their hands to her. Vrouw Vedder was so pleased that she
            went to call Father Vedder, who was in the hay-loft over the stable.
          "Come and see Kit and Kat," she cried.
          Father Vedder came down from the loft and looked too. Then Kit cut a figure like this,
            , and Kat cut one like this, . The round spot is where she sat
            down hard, just as she was almost around.
          When they came into the kitchen Father said,
          "I think we could take such a fine pair of skaters as that to the Vink with us on our
            way to town! The ice is very hard and thick for so early in the season, and we will go
            to-morrow."
          "We can see the shops too. St. Nicholas is coming, and the shops are full of fine
            things," said Vrouw Vedder.
          Kit and Kat could hardly wait for tomorrow  to come. They
            polished their skates and made everything ready.
          "What do you suppose the Vink is?" said Kat to Kit.
          "I think it is something like a church," said Kit.
          "You don't know what a Vink is--so there," said Kat. "I think it's
            something to eat."
          Then Kit changed the subject.
          "I'll race you to-morrow," he said.
          "I'll beat," said Kat.
          "We'll see," said Kit.
          The next day they started, all four, quite early in the morning. Vrouw Vedder took her
            basket on her arm.
           "I shall want to buy some things," she said.
          Father Vedder lighted his pipe--"To keep my nose warm," he said.
          Then they all went down to the canal and put on their skates.
          "Kat and I are going to race to the first windmill," said Kit.



          


           

          "I'll tell you when to start," said Father Vedder.
          "And I'll get a cake for the one who wins," said the mother.
          "One, two, three!" Away they flew like the wind! Father and Mother Vedder came close
            behind.



          
          Kit was so sure he would beat that he thought he would show off a little. He went
            zigzag across the canal; once or twice he stopped to skate in curves.
          Kat did n't stop for anything. She kept her eyes on the windmill, and she skated as
            hard as she could.
          They were getting quite near the mill now. Kit stopped playing and began to skate as
            fast as he could. But Kat had got the start of him.
          "I 'll soon get ahead of her," he thought. "She's a girl, and I'm a boy." He struck out
            with great long sweeps--as long as such short legs could make--but Kat kept ahead; and
            in another minute there she was at the windmill, quite out of breath, and pointing her
            finger at Kit!
          "I beat--I beat," she said.
          "Well, I could have beaten if I wanted to," said Kit.
          "I'll get the cake," said Kat.
          "I don't care," said Kit. But Kat knew that he did.



          

          "I'll give you a piece," she said.
          Father and Mother Vedder came along then; and when Kit and Kat were rested, they all
            skated for a long time without saying anything. Then Father Vedder said proudly to his
            wife,
           "They keep up as well as anybody! Were there ever such Twins!" And Mother Vedder
            said,
          "Never!"
          By and by other people appeared on the canal--men and women and children, all skating.
            They were going to the town to see the sights too.
          One woman skated by with her baby in her arms. One man was smoking a long pipe, and his
            wife was carrying a basket of eggs. But the man and woman were good skaters. They flew
            along, laughing; and no one could get near enough to upset them.
          As they came nearer to the town, Kit and Kat saw a tent near the place where one canal
            opened into another. A man stood 
              near the tent. He put his hands together and shouted through them to
            the skaters,
          
            
              "Come in, come in, and get a drink
              Of warm sweet milk on your way to the Vink."
            
          



          

          "We must be getting quite near the Vink," Kat said. "I do wonder what it looks like! Do
            you think it's alive?"
          They passed another tent. There a man was shouting,

          
            
              "Come buy a sweet cake; it costs but a cent,
              Come buy, come buy, from the man in the tent."
            
          

           Vrouw Vedder said,
          "I promised a cake to the one who beat in the race. We'll go in here and get it."
          So they went to the tent.
          They bought two cakes, and each ate half of one. Kat broke the cakes and gave them to
            the others, because she won the race.
          When they had eaten the cakes, they skated on. The canals grew more and more crowded.
            There were a good many tents; flags were flying, and the whole place was very gay.
          At last they saw a big building, with crowds of merry skaters about it. Many people
            were going in and out.
          "There's the Vink," said Father Vedder.



          
          "Where?" said kit and Kat.
          He pointed to the building.
          "Oh!" said Kit. He never said another word about what they had thought it was like.
          Soon they were inside the "Vink." It was a large restaurant. There were many little
            tables about, crowded with people, eating and drinking. Father Vedder found a table, and
            they all sat down.
          "Bring us some pea soup," he said to the waiter. Soon they were eating the hot
            soup.
          "This is the best thing I ever had," said Kit.
          When they had eaten their soup, they went out of the building and walked through the
            streets of the town. All the shops were filled with pretty things. The bake shops had
            wonderful cakes with little candies on top, and there were great cakes made like St.
            Nicholas himself in his long robes.
          Kit and Kat flattened their noses against all the shop windows, and looked at the toys
            and cakes.
          "I wish St. Nicholas would bring me 
              that," said Kit, pointing to a very large St. Nicholas cake.
          "And I want some of those," Kat said, pointing to some cakes made in the shapes of
            birds and fish.
          Vrouw Vedder had gone with her basket on an errand. Father Vedder and Kit and Kat
            walked slowly along, waiting for her.



          

           

          Soon there was a great noise up the street. There were shouts, and the clatter of
            wooden shoes.
          "Look! Look!" cried Kit.
          There, in the midst of the crowd, was a great white horse; and riding on it was the
            good St. Nicholas himself! He had a long  white beard and
            red cheeks, and long robes, with a mitre on his head; and he smiled at the children, who
            crowded around him and followed him in a noisy procession down the street.
          Behind St. Nicholas came a cart, filled with packages of all sizes. The children were
            all shouting at once, "Give me a cake, good St. Nicholas!" or, "Give me a new pair of
            shoes!" or whatever each one wanted most.
          "Where is he going?" asked Kit and Kat.
          "He's carrying presents to houses where there are good girls and boys," Father Vedder
            said. "For bad children, there is only a rod in the shoe."
          "I'm glad we 're so good," said Kit.
          "When will he come to our house?" asked Kat.
          "Not until to-morrow," said Father Vedder. "But you must fill your wooden shoes with
            beans or hay for his good horse, tonight; and then perhaps he will come down the chimney
            and leave something in them. It's worth trying."



          

          Kit and Kat were in a hurry to get home, for fear the Saint would get there first.
          It was growing late, so they all went to a waffle shop for their supper.
          In the shop a woman sat before an open fire. On the fire was a big waffle iron. She
            made the waffles, put sugar and butter on them, and passed a plate of them to each one.
            Oh, how good they were!

           



          

          When they had eaten their waffles, Father and Mother Vedder and the Twins went back to
            the canal and put on their skates. It was late in the afternoon. They took hold of hands
            and began to skate toward home, four in a row. Father and Mother Vedder were on the
            outside, and the Twins in the middle.
          It was dark when they reached home. Vrouw Vedder lighted the fire, while Father Vedder
            went to feed the cow and see that the chickens and ducks and geese were all safe for the
            night.
          Kit and Kat ran for their wooden shoes. They each took one and put some hay in
               
             it. This was for St. Nicholas to give to his horse.
            Father Vedder put the shoes on the mantel. Then they hurried to bed to make morning come
            quicker.
          Father and Mother Vedder sat up late that night. Mother Vedder said it was to prepare
            the goose for dinner the next day.
          When the Twins woke the next morning, the fire was already roaring up the chimney, and
            the kitchen was warm as toast. They hopped out of bed and ran for their wooden shoes.
            Mother Vedder reached up to the mantel shelf for them. Truly, the hay was gone--and
            there in each shoe was a package done up in paper!
          "Oh, he did come! He did come!" cried Kat. "O
            Mother, you're sure you did n't build the fire before he had got out of the
            chimney?"
          "I'm sure," said Vrouw Vedder. "I've made the fire on many a St. Nicholas morning, and
            I've never burned him yet!"
          The Twins climbed up the steps to their cupboard bed and sat on the edge of it to 
              open their packages. In Kit's was a big St. Nicholas cake, like the
            one in the shop window! And in Kat's were three cakes like birds, and two like fish!
          "Just what we wanted!" said Kit and Kat. "Do you suppose he heard us say so?"
          "St. Nicholas can hear what people think," said Vrouw Vedder. "He is
            coming  to see you to-night at six o'clock, and you must
            be ready to sing him a little song and answer any questions he asks you."
          "How glad I am that we are so good" said Kat.
          "We'll see what the Saint thinks about that," said the mother. "Now get dressed; for
            Grandfather and Grandmother will be here for dinner, and we're going to have roast
            goose, and there's a great deal to do."
          Kit and Kat set their beautiful cakes up where they could see them while they
            dressed.
          "I do wish every day were St. Nicholas Day," said Kit.
          "Or the day before," said Kat. "That was such a nice day!"
          "All the days are nice days, I think," said Kit.
          "I don't think the dog-cart day was so very nice," said Kat. "We tore our best clothes,
            and they'll never, never be so nice again. That was because you did
            n't mind!"
          "Well," said Kit, "I minded as much as  I could. How can
            I mind two things at one time? You know how well I can think! You know how I thought
            about Vrouw Van der Kloot's cakes. But I can't think how I can mind
            twice at one time."
          "I don't suppose you can," said Kat. "But anyway, I'm sorry about my dress."
          Just then Vrouw Vedder called them to come and eat their breakfast.
          Father and Mother Vedder sat down at the little round table and bowed their heads. Kit
            and Kat stood up. Father Vedder said grace; and then they ate their salt herring and
               
            
              drank their coffee; and Kit and Kat had coffee too, because it was
            St. Nicholas morning.
          It was snowing when, after breakfast, Kit went out with his father to feed the chickens
            and the pigs, and to see that the cow had something very good that she liked to eat.
            When they had done that, they called Kat; and she helped throw out some grain on the
            white snow, so the birds could have a feast, too.
          It snowed all day. Kit and Kat both  helped their mother
            get the dinner. They got the cabbage and the onions and the potatoes ready; and when the
            goose was hung upon the fire to roast, they watched it and kept it spinning around on
            the spit, so it would brown evenly.
          By and by the kitchen was all in order, and you can't think how clean and homelike it
            looked! The brasses all around the room had little flames dancing in them, because they
            were so bright and shiny. Everything was ready for the St. Nicholas feast. The goose was
            nearly roasted, and there was such a good smell of it in the air
          After a while there was a great stamping of feet at the door; and Vrouw Vedder ran with
            the broom to brush the snow off Grandfather and Grandmother, who had skated all the way
            from town, on the canal. When they were warmed and dried, and all their wraps put away,
            Grandfather and Grandmother Winkle looked around the pleasant kitchen; and Grandmother
            said to Grandfather, 



          

          "Our Neltje is certainly a good housewife." Neltje was Vrouw Vedder. And Grandfather
            said,
          "There's only one better one, my dear." He meant Grandmother Winkle.
           By and by they all sat down to dinner, and I can't begin to tell you how good it was!
            It makes one hungry just to think of it. They had roast goose and onions and turnips and
            cabbage. They had bread and butter, and cheese, and sweet cakes.
          "Everything except the flour in the bread, we raised ourselves," said Vrouw Vedder.
            "The hens gave us the eggs; and the cow, the butter. The Twins helped Father and me to
            take care of the chickens, and to milk the cow, and to make the butter; so it is our
            very own St. Nicholas feast that we are eating." 
          "A farmer's life is the best life there is," said Father Vedder.
          They sat a long time at the table; and Grandfather told stories about when he was a
            boy; and Father Vedder told how Kit and  Kat learned to
            skate; and Kit and Kat told how they saw St. Nicholas riding on a white horse, and how
            he sent them the very things they wanted; and they all enjoyed themselves very much.
           After dinner, Grandmother Winkle sat down in the chimney corner and called Kit and
            Kat.
          "Come here," she said, "and I'll tell you some stories about St. Nicholas." 

           


          
          The Twins brought two little stools and sat beside her, one on each side. She took out
            her knitting; and as the needles clicked in her fingers, she told this story:
          "Once upon a time, many years ago, three little brothers went out one day to the woods
            to gather fagots. They were just about as big as you are, Kit and Kat."
          "Were they all three, twins?" asked Kat.
          "The story doesn't tell about that," said Grandmother Winkle; "but maybe they were. At
            any rate, they all got lost in the woods and wandered ever so far, trying to find their
            way home. But instead of finding their way home, they just got more and more lost all
            the time. They were very tired and hungry; but, as they were brave boys, not one of them
            cried."
          "It's lucky that none of those twins were girls," said Kit.
          "I've even heard of boy twins that cried, when dog carts ran away, or something of that
            kind happened," said Grandmother  Winkle. "But you should
            n't interrupt; it's not polite."
          "Oh!" said Kit very meekly.
          "Well, as I was saying, they were very lost indeed. Night was coming on; and they were
            just thinking that they must lie down on the ground to sleep, when one of them saw a
            light shining through the leaves. He pointed it out to the others; and they walked along
            toward it, stumbling over roots and stones as they went, for it was now quite dark.
          "As they came nearer, they saw that the light came from the window of a poor little hut
            on the edge of a clearing.
          "They went to the door and knocked. The door was opened by a dirty old woman, who lived
            in the hut with her husband, who was a farmer.
          "The boys told the old woman that they had lost their way, and asked her if she could
            give them a place to sleep. She spoke to her husband, who sat crouched over a little
            fire in the corner; and he told her to give them a bed in the loft.



          


          The three boys climbed the little ladder into the loft and lay down on the hay. They
            were so tired that they fell asleep at once. The old man and his wife whispered about
            them over their bit of fire.
          "'They are fine-looking boys; and well dressed,' said the old woman.
          "'Yes,' said the old man, 'and I have no doubt they have plenty of money about
            them.'
          "'Do you really think so?' said the wife.
          "'I think I'll find out,' said the wicked farmer. So he climbed up to the loft and
            killed the three boys. Then he looked in their pockets for money; but there was no money
            there.
          "He was very angry. And he was very much afraid--wicked people are always afraid."
          "Are all afraid people wicked?" asked Kat. She wished very much that she were
            brave.
          "M-m-m, well--not always,"said Grandmother Winkle.


          
          "The wicked farmer was so afraid that he wanted to put the bodies of the three boys
            where no one would find them. So he carried them down cellar and put them into the
            pickle tub with his pork."
          "Oh! Oh! Oh!" screamed Kat, and she put her hands over her ears. Even Kit's eyes were
            very round and big. But Grandmother said,
          "Now, don't you be scared until I get to the end of the story. Did n't I tell you it
            was all about St. Nicholas? You wait and see what happened!
          "That very same day the wicked farmer went to market with some vegetables to sell. As
            he was sitting in the market, St. Nicholas appeared before him. He had on his mitre and
            his long robes, just as you see him in Kit's cake.
          "'Have you any pork to sell?' St. Nicholas asked the man.
          "'No,' said the farmer.
          "'What of the three young pigs in your brine tub in the cellar?' said St. Nicholas.



          

          "The farmer saw that his wicked deed was found out--as all wicked deeds are, sooner or
            later. He fell on his knees and begged the good Saint to forgive him.
          "St. Nicholas said, 'Show me the way to your house.'
          "The farmer left his vegetables unsold in the market and went home at once, the Saint
            following all the way.
          "When they reached the hut, St. Nicholas went to the pickled-pork tub in the cellar. He
            waved his staff over the tub, and out jumped the three boys, hearty and well! Then the
            good Saint took them through the woods and left them in sight of their own home."
          "Oh, what a good St. Nicholas!" said Kit and Kat. "Tell us another."
          "Well," said Grandmother Winkle,"once upon another time there was a very mean man, who
            had a great deal of money--that often happens. He had, also, three beautiful daughters
            --that sometimes happens too.



          

          "One day he lost all his money. Now, he cared more for money than for anything else in
            the world--more, even, than for his three beautiful daughters. So he made up his mind to
            sell them!
          "St. Nicholas knew of this wicked plan; so that very night he went to the man's house
            and dropped some money through a broken window."
          "Why did he do that?" asked Kat.
          "Because the man was selling his daughters to get money. If he had money enough, he
            would n't sell them.
          "The first night St. Nicholas dropped enough money to pay for the eldest daughter. The
            next night he took a purse of gold for the second daughter, and dropped it down the
            chimney. It fell down right in front of the man, as he was getting a coal to light his
            pipe. The third night the man watched; and when St. Nicholas came, the door flew open,
            and the man ran out. He caught St. Nicholas by his long robe and held him.
          "'O St. Nicholas, Servant of the Lord,'  he said, 'why
            dost thou hide thy good deeds?'
          "And from that time on, every one has known it is St. Nicholas who brings gifts in the
            night and drops them down the chimney." 
          "Did the man sell his daughter?" asked Kat.
          "No," said Grandmother. "He was so ashamed of himself that he was n't wicked any
            more."
          "Does St. Nicholas give everybody presents so they will be good?" asked Kat.
          "Yes," said Grandmother; "that's why bad children get only a rod in their shoes."
          "He gave the bad man nice presents to make him good," said Kit. "Why doesn't he give
            bad children nice things to make them good too?"
          Grandmother Winkle knitted for a minute without speaking. Then she said,
          "I guess he thinks that the rod is the present that will make them good in the shortest
            time."



          
          The clock had been ticking steadily along while Grandmother had been telling stories,
            and it was now late in the afternoon. The sky was all red in the west; there were long,
            long shadows across the snowy fields, and the corners of the kitchen were quite
            dark.
          "It's almost time to expect him, now," said Vrouw Vedder; and she brought out a sheet
            and spread it in the middle of the kitchen floor. She stirred up the fire, and the room
            was filled with the pleasant glow from the flames.
          Kit and Kat sat on their little stools. Their eyes were very big. At five minutes of
            six, Vrouw Vedder said,
          "He will be here in just a few minutes, now. Get up, Kit and Kat, and sing your
            song!"
          The Twins stood up on the edge of the sheet and began to sing:
          
            
              "St. Nicholas, good, holy man,
              Put on your best gown;
              Ride with it to Amsterdam,
              From Amsterdam to Spain."
            
          



          

           


          While they were singing, there was a sound at the door, of some one feeling for the
            latch. Then the door flew open, and a great shower of sweet cakes and candies fell  onto the sheet, all around Kit and Kat! There in the
            doorway stood St. Nicholas himself, smiling and shaking off the snow! His horse was
            stamping outside. Kit and Kat could hear it.
          They stopped singing and hardly breathed,--they stood so still. They looked at St.
            Nicholas with big, big eyes. In one hand St. Nicholas carried two large packages; in the
            other, a birch rod.
          "Are there any good children here?" said St. Nicholas.
          "Pretty good, if you please, dear St. Nicholas," said Kit in a very small voice.
          "Children who always mind their mothers and fathers and grandfathers and grandmothers?"
            said St. Nicholas, "and who do not quarrel?"
          Kat could n't say anything at all, though the Saint looked right at her! Vrouw Vedder
            spoke.
          "I think, dear St. Nicholas, they are very good children," she said.



          

          "Then I will leave these for them and carry the rod along to some bad little boy and
            girl, if I find one," said St. Nicholas. "There seem to be very few about here. I have
            n't left a single rod yet." And he handed one big package to Kit, and another to
            Kat.
          "Thank you," said Kit and Kat.
          St. Nicholas smiled at them and waved his hand. Then the door shut, and he was
            gone!
          Kit and Kat dropped on their knees to pick up the cakes and candies. They passed the
            cakes and candies around to each one. Vrouw Vedder lighted the candles, and then they
            all gathered around to see Kit and Kat open their bundles.
          "You open yours first," said Vrouw Vedder to Kat.
          Kat was so excited that she could hardly untie the string. When she got the bundle
            open, there was a beautiful new Sunday dress--much prettier than the torn one had ever
            been! Oh. how pleased Kat was! She 
              hugged her mother and her grandmother and her father and her
            grandfather.
          "I just wish I could hug dear St. Nicholas, too," she said.
          Then Kit opened his bundle; and there was a beautiful new velveteen suit, with his very
            own silver buttons on it! It had pockets in it! He put his hand in one pocket.  It had a penny in it! Then he put his hand in the other
            pocket. There was another penny!
          "I'm going to see if there's a pocket in mine," said Kat.
          She hunted and hunted and hunted. By and by she found a pocket. And sure enough, there
            was a penny in that too!
          Then some presents came from somewhere for Father and Mother Vedder and for Grandfather
            and Grandmother Winkle; and such a time as they all had, opening the bundles and showing
            their presents!
          Then Mother Vedder tried on Kit's suit and Kat's dress, to see if they were the right
            size. They were just right exactly.
          "St. Nicholas even knows how big we are," said Kat.
          "Oh, I wish St. Nicholas Day would last a week," said Kit.
          "That reminds me," said Vrouw Vedder, and she looked at the clock. "Half-past ten, and
            these children still up! Bless my heart, this will never do! Come here, Kit and Kat, and
            let me undo your buttons"



          


           

          "May we take our new clothes to bed with us?" Kat asked.
          "Yes, just this once," said Mother Vedder, "because this is St. Nicholas night."

          

          They kissed their Grandfather and Grandmother good-night, and their Mother and Father,
            and said their prayers like good children; and then they climbed up into their little
            cupboard bed, and Vrouw Vedder drew the curtains, so they would go to sleep sooner.
          "Good-night, dear little Twins," she said.
          And so say we.


          

           

        
      

    
  
