
	 ----CITATION---- 
        Robinson, Charles Asbury.. The trail of the white wolf, or, The doom of the Delawares. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1860
	 ----FULL TEXT----
        

		

			


			

			

			

			

			

			

				
					

						BIRTHPLACE OF THE AUTHOR.

					
				
			

			

			

				

					 THE TRAIL --OF-- THE WHITE WOLF;
							--OR,-- THE DOOM OF THE DELAWARES

					
						A THRILLING STORY OF EARLY COLONIAL DAYS
					

				

				 By CHARLES ASBURY ROBINSON, AUTHOR OF "LAURA LAMAR OF THE SUSQUEHANNA," "UNCLE ROBIS'S BABY BOOK,"
					Etc. 

				 Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year
						1903, By Charles Asbury Robinson.  PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR, 
					 GREENFIELD, IND.
					
				
			


			


			

				DEDICATION.

				Because of its unfailing devotion to the duty of uplifting the human race, because of its
					patient endeavor to make this bright old world brighter, because of its loyalty and
					devotion to the old flag, the ensign of American liberty and American equality, because of
					its constant practice of the principles of brotherly love in succoring the distressed,
					feeding the hungry and clothing and educating the poor, and because of its untiring
					efforts to instill into the hearts of men the eternal principles of Freedom, Friendship
					Charity and Truth, this volume is respectfully dedicated to the Improved Order of Red
					Men.

			

			


			

				ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND AUTHORITIES.

				

				The author sincerely regrets that lack of space prevents him from mentioning in detail
					all those who have so kindly assisted him in this endeavor, yet, he feels that he is
					especially indebted to Mr. Thomas G. Harrison, Great Incohonee of the Improved Order of
					Red Men, to Hon. James E. Watson, member of Congress, for the Sixth Indiana District, to
					Hon. A. F. Cooper and to Mr. James L. Nix, of Homer City, Pennsylvania, for their interest
					in his efforts.
				Following is a list of authorities consulted:

				

					The Reports of the United States Bureau of Ethnology.
					The Archives of Pennsylvania.
					Green's History of the English People.
					Macaulay's History of England.
					Farr's History of England.
					Hume's History of England.
					Ridpath's History of the World.--Published by John Wannamaker, Philadelphia.
					History of Pennsylvania by William Mason Cornell--1876. John Sully & Co.,
						Philadelphia.
					History of Pennsylvania by Thomas F. Gordon --1829. Carey, Lea & Carey.
					Historical collection of the State of Pennsylvania,  by
						Sherman Day--1843. John W. Gorton, Philadelphia.
					History of Pennsylvania by Robert Proud--1798. Zachariah Poulson, Jr.,
						Philadelphia.
					History of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, by William H. Egle, AM. D., A.
						M.--1883. E. AI. Gordon, Philadelphia.
					A History of Pennsylvania, by L. S. Shimmel-- 1900. R. S. Myers & Co.,
						Pittsburg.
					The making of Pennsylvania, by Henry George Fisher--1896. Lippencott & Co.,
						Philadelphia.
					Western Annals, author and publisher not given. Published in Pittsburg in 1856 and
						dedicated to the young men of Pennsylvania.
					The Olden Time, by Neville B. Craig--1848. Wright & Charlton, Pittsburg.
					Chronicles of Border Warfare, by Alex. Withers --1831. Joseph Israel, Clarksburg,
						Va.
					A History of New Sweden, by William MI. Reynolds--1874. Historical Society of
						Pennsylvania.
					Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania --1826. J. B. Lippincott &
						Co., Philadelphia.
					Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania --186o. J. B. Lippincott &
						Co., Philadelphia.
					A History of the Manners and Customs of the Indians of North America, by Rev. John
						Heckwelder, the Moravian Missionary--1876, published by the Historical Society of
						Pennsylvania.

					

					A Biographical History of the Indians of North America, by Samuel C. Drake--1834. O.
						L. Perkins, Boston; Gregg & Elliott, Boston; G. & C. & N. Carroll,
						Philadelphia, and Hillard, Gray & Co., New York.
					A Popular Life of George Fox, by Jeremiah Marsh, (late of copyright and publication
						not given; published by Henry Langstroth, Philadelphia.
					The Mound Builders, by J. R. McLean--1893. Robert Clark & Co.,
						Cincinnati.
					History of the Mission of United Brethren, (Moravians) among the Indians of North
						America, by Henry Loshiel. Translated from the German by Christian Ignatius Latrobe,
						1794, London, published for the Society.
					A Century of Dishonor, by Helen Hunt Jackson.
					The Cyclopedia Brittanica.
					The American Encyclopedia.
					The People's Cyclopedia.
					Zell's Encyclopedia.
					The Standard Encyclopedic Dictionary.
					The Cyclopedia of United States History.

				

			

			

			

				THE AUTHOR--BEFORE THE LIGHTS BEGAN TO FADE.

			

		

		

			

			

				THE TRAIL OF THE WHITE WOLF.

				

					CHAPTER I.

					FROM PULPIT TO PRISON.

					Grace Church street, London, was crowded with people of what was known in England as
						"the lower order." It was a cold damp night, and the dripping fog that hung over the
						spot seemed as heavy as the hearts of the thr.ong of humble folk who squinted their eyes
						in the flickering glimmer of the street lights in their efforts to pierce the
						surrounding gloom.
					A speaker stood upon a low platform at the curb. He was a finely built man, thirty-five
						years old or thereabouts. His brow was lofty and intellectual. His face was broad, his
						features fair, and bore an expression of genuine honesty and sincerity. His soft blue
						eyes were aglow with a light that always aroused into activity all that was best in the
						hearts of men whose attention he engaged. His lips were thin and closely set, but not
						compressed. His  complexion was clear and betrayed not a
						line that was the child of dissipation. His whole countenance reflected a kindly
						sympathy which betokened a love for the entire human race, and a fear of nothing, mortal
						or immortal, seen or unseen.
					His well poised head was covered with a wealth of brown silken hair, which hung in
						glossy ringlets to his shoulders. Standing full six feet tall, with a form showing a
						perfect symmetry and proportion, erect as an Indian, he was what he indeed, appeared to
						be, a mental and physical giant, a truly manly man.
					The speaker was William Penn. The eyes of the motley crowd he addressed were ablaze
						with deep interest. Upon their eager ears the words that flowed from his lips fell like
						music. They seemed to touch a responsive chord in the breasts of his hearers, and to,
						awaken a new spirit, a new hope and a new life. The crowd surged and swayed, but no one
						spoke. The whole mnass of composite humanity leaned toward the speaker with open ears
						and bated breath, as if afraid of losing a single word. And what was William Penn saying
						that aroused the people to such a pitch of enthusiasm? He was preaching the new doctrine
						of 
						
							"A TRULY MANLY MAN."
						
						
						
						 THE NECESSITY OF RIGHT LIVING AND THE EQUALITY OF MAN.

					

					For years this doctrine had been preached among the poor, by the poor, for the poor,
						and had aroused no special comment except a sarcastic remark by some purse-proud
						plutocrat, or a scornful sneer on the face of a portly bishop, whose mitre was a fief,
						and whose heart was a stone. Of late years, however, the Society of Friends, which was
						first to preach the doctrine, had become so numerous and influential as to threaten the
						prerogatives of the dignitaries of the cap and gown whose duty it was to instill into
						the minds of the populace the observance of a passive submission to the tyranny of kings
						with the promise of an eternal roasting in the bake oven of his satanic majesty for
						disobedience, thus maintaining a religious despotism, which was far more detrimental to
						the rights of man than the oppression of political tyrants.
					"'Tis better," said the king, "that they be taught that endless torture awaits them
						after death, if they observe not a passive submission to all my decrees. Two human
						figures appeared at the end of a dark filthy alley a short distance away. One was of  medium height with a form rather spare. The color of his
						long, wavy hair rivaled the coat of the raven, while his flashing eves met their
						counterpart in the darkness of Egyptian midnight. His hands and face were as soft as
						velvet, and as white as the lilly. His dress was the faultless fashion of the time. Upon
						his head was a black hat whose broad brim was drawn low for the purpose of excluding the
						gaze of the curious and inquisitive. The other was a burly brute in every atom of brain,
						bone and body. His stubby hair stood out upon his shapeless head like bristles on the
						neck of a wild boar. His heavy cheeks and hanging jaws were laden with such a mass of
						fat as to almost close his woolfish eyes and his fish-like mouth. His hands, face and
						neck were creased and bloated from excessive drinking, while his crooked legs appeared
						as if they were too small to support his body.
					When they reachd the street the slender man surveyed the surroundings at a glance and
						said: "Well, Belch, here we are just in time to have our spiritual strength renewed from
						the fountain that never runs dry.'
					"I'm getting most blasted dry myself, and if there is any wetting down to be done I'm
						in line, provided the liquor is the proper caper," replied the other. "Seek not the
						biter fruits of mortal life, but rather partake of the sweets of spiritual life."
						"Spirits is what I'm after, and the sooner they appear the better."

					

					"'Twas ever thus. The carnal mind runeth itself to destruction after the pleasures that
						fade in the twinkling of an eye."
					"But, tell me, Ford, who is that talking, and what is it all about?"
					"A Quaker, dullard, an immaculate Quaker. One of those new-fangled saints who is so
						pure that he would neither drink the wine from the king's table nor kiss the king's
						favorite mistress, even though she were Lucy Walters herself, the brown Welsh peasant
						lassie who was the mother of his illegitimate son, the Duke of Monmouth."
					"Bah! a bloviating Quaker. I thought the king's clergy and constables had inflicted
						sufficient punishment upon these idiots to send the whole incestuous brood to their
						hovels in dismay, but who is this eloquent new comer ?" said Ielch, stepping farther
						into the streets.
					"Not so conspicuous, please," said the other, drawing him back into the shadow, "unless
						you pine for apartments at Newgate prison, or would you become a member of the Society
						of Friends ?" "If there is anything in it, yes, but as to Newgate, God pity the creature
						who goes there."
					"How so, my sentimental friend?" asked Ford, flippantly.
					"Of all the loathsome dens of festering filth in England at this time," replied Belch
						warmly, "and their name is legion, the vilest is Newgate prison."

					

					"How do you know this?"
					"I have been in the place."
					"When?"
					"Oftentimes."
					"In what capacity?"
					"Twice as a suspect, but a number of times as an officer of the king."
					"Have you ever assisted in imprisoning Quakers?"
					"Hundreds of them, not excepting their leader, William Penn, and right well do they
						bear the torture, I must say."
					"That is Penn talking," said Ford.
					"So it is, I failed to recognize him at first. He is a fool. He is sure to go from that
						mob direct to Newgate, and if he does, his wealth will not prevent him from seeing
						sights that will make his blood run cold, for Bishop Joss has given the jailer orders to
						dungeon him if he ever comes again."
					"The Bishop is as mild a mannered man as ever blessed a Jezebel or cursed a Mary
						Magdalene, and he is too severe, far too severe. Hst! some one approaches. Ah! 'tis the
						bishop himself. Where away, Reverend Father, this night of miserable murk?" said Ford,
						to the nocturnal spectre in midnight garb.
					"Looking for stray lambs upon the mountain side," replied the other, softly, as he
						gazed toward the crowd; "but what have we yonder?"

					

					"A strong, healthy wolf with the appetite of a whale," said Ford, with a laugh.
					"It is a wolf that you have seen before," said Belch to the bishop.
					"Is it--?"
					"It is William Penn."
					"The curses of a thousand demons be upon him," said the bishop.
					"Then you know him?" queried Ford.
					"Too well, I am sorry to say."
					"I am told that he is wealthy," said Ford.
					"Hence the more dangerous," replied the bishop, sternly. "I have been especially
						commissioned to suppress this disturber. I have thrown him into prison half a dozen
						times, but through the tenderness of my heart I have as often released him, yet, scarce
						has he walked out and the prison doors closed behind him ere his mouth flew open and he
						began to bleat Quakerism. But his wealth will serve him no longer. Belch, you remember
						the Dungeon of the Demons."
					"I do," said the other with a shudder.
					"Into that dungeon he goes tonight."
					"Great God!" exclaimed Belch.
					"And little fishes," laughed Joss. "Now, see me crush the fellow," and he started
						toward the crowd.
					"Wait a moment, Bishop, until I speak a word to Belch, and we will go with you," said
						Ford.
					He drew Belch aside, and the two consulted in an undertone, then joined the bishop and
						Ford went on: "Will you have him arrested?"

					

					"I certainly shall," replied the bishop. "Allow me to make a suggestion. Suppose you
						stand on the outer edge of the crowd, while Belch and I will mix with it. When you hear
						a commotion, then act, as it will be a better excuse for so doing," said Ford.
					"So it will," replied the bishop. "My brains are batter when compared to the wit of the
						facile Ford."
					They approached the crowd, and Ford entered it, followed by Belch. Their movements were
						not noticed, as it was night and foggy, and people were coming and going all the time.
						The bishop drew his cowl over his eyes and stopped at the outer edge of the circle. In a
						few moments a child was heard to scream near the speaker. Belch had pushed her to the
						ground, as if by accident, and had deliberately placed his heavy boot upon her prostrate
						body, shouting as he did so: "Stand back, you brutes. You have pushed me upon this
						child, and she is being crushed to death."
					Instantly Ford leaped from his place and shoved Belch aside. He picked up the child and
						said, as he turne(l to Penn who had come down from the platform seeking the injured
						waif. "The thoughtless crowd has killed her, I fear. I am glad I was so near at
						hand."
					"So am I, my friend," said Penn, earnestly. "You have a generous heart and God will
						surely reward you."

					

					"It was only a duty I owed to a humble fellow creature. You know that God has made us
						all equal," answered the wily hypocrite.
					"Does thee believe that?" asked Penn.
					"With all my heart."
					"Then thou art one of us."
					"My desire is such to be."
					"Receive my blessing, friend. Be thou faithful unto death, and thou shalt receive a
						crown of life," and the pure hearted street preacher placed his hands upon the head of
						the other.
					"What means this unseemly commotion?" said a voice at the outer portion of the crowd.
						It was the bishop's voice.
					"'Tis the voice of Jehovah speaking through human lips," replied a humble citizen who
						had not yet learned of the injury to the child.
					"Upon whom has Jehovah so recently conferred such special honor ?" asked the bishop,
						sacastically.
					"Upon William Penn," was the reply.
					"Has that varlet so soon escaped from the prison cell?"
					"He is no varlet. He is a teacher of the truth." timidly replied the common man.
					"Shut up, you dog. He is a babbling boaster, an agnostic, an infidel. He has been dealt
						with very gently in the past, but now the king will try the virtues of Newgate in his
						case. Arrest him at once," said Joss, addressing an officer. The latter promptly
						obeyed.

					

					Penn was seized and dragged away to the most dreadful den in all England. Close to his
						heels came a vicarious mass of soul-starved humanity, intermingled with putrid blotches
						of the sickening scum of darkest England, the haughty patrician and the trailing
						sleuth-hounds of both the crown and the chancel. Sympathy inspired the hearts of the
						first, a morbid curiosity the second and a jealous hatred the last two elements.
					"Move a little farther away," haughtily challenged a man whose dress and carriage
						marked his as one of the higher order, "you smell badly."
					"Have a care how you talk," replied a man in plain clothes, "this street is a common
						herding place now."
					"Your breath is like a garlic lot," said a well dressed citizen to a heavy set body
						that waddled along like a duck beside him.
					"Shure," was the keen retort, "better had a mon have a breath av honest garlic that is
						paid fer nor wan av phwisky that was sthole by the King's butler from the King's
						cellar."
					"Not so fast, there, old duffer," called an officer as he prodded the ribs of a
						presumptuous pedestrian with the point of his sword, "worms should crawl slower and
						below the surface."
					"It will be a disgusted worm that gets far enough below the surface to penetrate your
						paunch," came through the fog, as a dirty figure disappeared in the darkness.

					

					The saint bandied the sinner, the prelate jollied the poacher, the prince jested with
						the pauper and the baron bullied the beggar as they trudged along through the mud to
						Newgate prison. Every type of humanity known to the world was there--except the American
						Indian, who would doubtless have felt himself disgraced forever if fate had been so
						cruel as to cast him in that human quagmire.
					At a signal from the bishop Belch had been made a deputy and passed into the prison
						enclosure when the iron doors were opened. Ford attempted to follow, having left the
						injured child in the care of its mother, but was thrust back into the crowd by an
						officer.
					"Bring him in," said Belch.
					"For what ?" asked the other.
					"He espoused the Quaker faith just now in the street and received Penn's blessing."
					"So he did," said Bishop Joss, "imprison him also," and Ford passed in.
					The heavy iron door grated on its hinges, swung inward and closed with a clang,
						shutting out the groveling, grumbling mob which boasted of being the flower of an
						advanced civilization and shutting in the man who was destined to do more to establish
						as a living reality, the equality of man than any other person in any age or
						country.
				

				

				

					CHAPTER II.

					THE GLORY OF NEWGATE.


					Penn was taken into an apartment which, in our time, would be called a 'sweat box."
						where he was subjected to an abusive interview. When this began Belch touched the arm of
						Ford and said, "Come with me."
					He secured a dim light and the two entered a darkened passage where Belch took the arm
						of his friend and said: "You imagine you have seen revolting sights in civilized
						England, but ere you depart from this place, if you survive the ordeal, you are about to
						undergo, you will conclude that there is more savagery in one square mile of England
						than there is in all of America combined."
					"But I have never been in America. I know nothing of the savages except what I have
						heard of them," said Ford, as they walked along.
					"Well, this is Newgate prison and when you return from this excursion through its
						dungeons I believe you will be ready to cast your lot among Indians of America, when the
						first opportunity presents itself. Place your hand against that wall, it may serve to
						steady you."


					

					"Ugh! It is one mass of sickening slime," exclaimed Ford as he quickly withdrew his
						hand.
					"'Tis but the vapor of dead bodies that has arisen from the floor for ages and settled
						upon the wall. Have a care there where you step."
					"What is that ?" said Ford, peering into the darkness.
					"'Tis nothing but the half decayed body of an unfortunate victim of the wrath of a
						civilized magistracy. Just step over it. Now you behold another fellow creature, or what
						the rats have left of him. This putrid mass of half liquid, half solid flesh, was once a
						human being, who unconsciously offended some subaltern flunky of the Court of all
						Harlots."
					"Great God, Belch, take me away."
					"I have seen your nerves put to some severe tests, Ford, but this is the first time I
						ever saw you quail. Steel yourself to the surroundings for there is more to follow.
						There lies something interesting. It is a young girl who was worse than inurdered by the
						loafers about the court of the King, then flung into this place on the charge of
						vagrancy."
					"How do you know this?"
					"I knew her when she was a virtuous working girl, I knew her when she was the mistress
						of one of the King's hostlers, and I put her in that cell a week ago myself. See that
						rat gnawing at her breast. Let it alone. It is the only friend she has, and will soon
						put her to sleep."


					

					"Belch, I cannot stand any more of this, I tell you. Take me out or I shall faint."
					"Oh; no, you cannot faint. Here, swallow this brandy. There now, you will be better.
						Heigh-ho! if that Indian isn't alive yet," and he pointed to a copper colored figure
						crouched in a corner, ravenously devouring a rat which he had lately caught. "Indian! Is
						that an Indian?"
					"It certainly is."
					"How came he here?"
					"He is one of the savage subjects of a civilized King. They brought him from America.
						He was the sub-chief--called a Sagamore--of some great tribe over there. The name of the
						Great Sachem of his people was Tamina. The English told Tamina they wanted to take this
						fellow to see his great white father. Tamina let him go. When they got him here they
						concluded he knew of the whereabouts of great gold mines. They tried to induce him to
						tell them. He could not do so because he knew nothing of any mines. Then they put him to
						the torture. Torture that the most bloodthirsty creature in all his race never dreamed
						of. Here is the machine. It was invented and first used by James, Duke of York, when he
						ruled in Scotland. See the plan of its working. The head of the Indian was fastened to
						one end with a clamp. The feet were fastened with fetters at the opposite end, the arms
						were each extended to their full length and also securely fettered. Four  strong attendants then turned four cranks at the extremities
						of the victim and the effect would have been to tear the miserable creature limb from
						limb, if carried far enough. They tried it on the Indian a number of times, but failed
						to secure the information they desired. The last time they "twisted him up," as they
						called it, the fellow at the head gave his crank one turn too many and something
						cracked. They let the Indian loose and he was found to be insensible. When he regained
						consciousness his head was drawn to one side as you now see it, and he was an idiot--a
						finished product of the civilizing influences of the white race."
					"Bah! Talk about a God in the face of such scenes as this. It is all rot," said Ford,
						"but let us go back. I have seen enough."
					"Come on," said Belch, "cling closely to my arm. See that woman hanging in that cell by
						her hair? She hung there until she was dead. Gods, how her prayers sent shafts of frozen
						lightning through us as we left her swinging by her golden tresses. And there, see those
						fingers protruding between the iron door of the cell and its casement? They are a
						woman's fingers. We pushed her into the dungeon and as we closed the door she thrust her
						hand upward, and it was caught and mashed flat. Her screams penetrated this whole den,
						but touched none of our hearts. We left her thus and she is now hanging inside by that
						one arm, if it has not rotted off.  Shall I open the door
						that you may be convinced?"
					"For heaven's sake, no. Let me out," said Ford, desperately.
					"One more scene and we will return." Belch took a step forward, flung open a rusty door
						and said in a voice so hoarse and ghoulish as to startle Ford: "There, let your eyes and
						nose feast upon the fullest fatness of the ideal civilization of the dying decades of
						the Seventeenth century. Take this light and see for yourself while I support you."
					Ford thrust the wax taper into the place and a sight met his gaze that made him
						stagger. Bones, flesh, the foul smelling juices of decayed and decaying bodies lay
						before him reeking with crawling vermin. Over gorged rats perched upon the ribs they
						were gnawing, and growled at the intruders upon the festivities of the hour. Venomous
						snakes coiled and uncoiled among the heaps of bones and thrust out their forked tongues
						in defiance of the new comers as they wormed their way about in pools of bloody filth.
						Slimy lizards scampered away and hid themselves among the filthy rags that lay strewn
						about.
					Ford was dumbfounded. He was riveted to the spot. Great beads of perspiration gathered
						upon his brow, ran clown into his eyes and trickeled from his chin, but he was totally
						oblivious of their presence.
					Placing his hand upon the shoulder of the terror stricken man, Belch went on, "While
						the courtesan  fondles the King the serpent strangles the
						subject; while the soft voiced siren from the court of France sings sweet lullabys into
						the ear of the Lord Chancellor of the Exchecquer, English men and women rot and starve
						in cells like this, and woe be to the woman who dares resent the advances of the army of
						libertines who surround the throne, be they connected with church or state."
					"Great heavens! Belch, you are beside yourself. It cannot be so bad as that," said
						Ford.
					"Ford," and the other seized him by the shoulders with the grip of a giant, and gazed
						into his little black eyes with a look that sent a shaft of terror to his soul. "Ford,
						that is the Dungeon of the Demons. You have just heard a bishop claiming to be an
						ambassador of the Most High, speak of it in the street."
					"'Tis fitly named," replied Ford.
					The eyes of Belch grew firey and dangerous; his features contorted like the writhing of
						the snakes in the dungeon; his bosom swelled as if it would burst; his whole frame
						trembled with the fury of a madman; he thrust his face almost against that of Ford, and
						in a terrible, hissing whisper said:
					"IN THAT CALDRON OF HELL MY MOTHER DIED."
					"Hush, Belch, you are insane," replied Ford.
					"AND THERE I FOUND HER BODY."
					"Oh, the horror of the thought," shuddered Ford.
					"A snake had burrowed in her brain, a rat in her bosom, and a lizard in her
						heart."


					

					"And for what offense was she condemned to suffer such a death ?" asked Ford in
						surprise.
					"She refused to forsake my father and revel in the slimy arms of a sensual
						High Churchman."
					"Take me away, for God's sake, take me away," said Ford, in terror.
					"Since then," Belch went on, "the supreme ruler of all the demons of darkness has taken
						up his abode in the soul of him who stands before you."
					"And this is civilized England," reflected Ford seriously.
					"Stop, don't stir a step nor move a muscle while I tell you that in that den
						William Penn will be throw like a dog, and if an opportunity presents itself I will
						torture him with as much pleasure as the rats and the snakes and the lizards feast upon
						the living bodies of the luckless children of this progressive age of ours."
					"Great God, Belch, will your thirst for revenge never cease?"
					"Yes."
					"When?"
					Belch glanced about him as if fearing he might be overheard, then put his mouth against
						the ear of Ford and hissed: "When I see the carcass of Bishop Joss or King
							Charles, the Second, rotting in the cell that held my mother; for it was Joss who
							sought to debauch her, and King Charles winked at the offense when she was murdered.
							Neither of them suspect that I know the truth."

					

					"And your fondest hope will most likely never be realized," said Ford.
					"'Rightly have you spoken, so come, let us away."
					When they reached the exit they found the Indian awaiting them. Upon his face was an
						idiotic stare combined with a silly grin, and his head was drawn so far to one side that
						he was compelled to turn his body to see them.
					"What do you want?" said Belch, fiercely.
					"You say 'Merica. Red Man of forest. Me go 'Merica, see Tamina."
					"What are you talking about? You are a prisoner."
					"Me go 'Merica with you."
					"But you are an idiot, a fool."
					"Yes, me fool. He! He! Fools sometimes help wise palefaces. Me go 'Mlerica with you;
						he! he!"
					"But suppose I don't go to America?"
					"Then Bingoo die here," and he sat down on the filthy stone floor.
					"Well, suppose I do go and take you with me?" The Indian was on his feet in an instant,
						and said eagerly, "Bingoo go and be your dog," and he danced about in the most silly
						fashion.
					"Stay here and I will send for you if I go," said Belch, and the two white men passed
						out.
					They reached the "sweat box" just in time to hear Bishop Joss say to Penn:
					"Heretofore, your wealth, your position and the  esteem in
						which your noble father was held, have secured for you the clemency of the crown.
						Henceforth, you will be treated as any other felon. Tonight," and the bishop's voice
						grew loud and terrible, "you rest in the Dungeon of the Demons. Away with
							him."
					"The will of the Lord be done," said Penn with a supreme degree of composure.
					They led him away to the dungeon, but it was not to be for long. The guard thrust a
						light into the place. Penn surveyed it as calmly as he could, then a sickening shudder
						ran through his frame as he said: "And this is the charnel house of death," then raising
						his eyes to heaven he pleaded in tones so plaintive, so piteous and so tender: "How
						long, Oh, Lord, how long?"
					The iron door clanged, the guard hastened away and he was alone.
					The mind, the eyes and the ears of Ford were busy. They had been busy ever since the
						bishop stopped and spoke to him at the entrance of the alley. Ford was composite
						selfishness in the highest degree. There was no height to which he would not climb, nor
						depth to which he would not descend to accomplish a purpose. He touched the bishop on
						the arm when Penn had been led away and said, in soft, insinuating tones, "Bishop, I
						have been thinking of. the best manner in which to dispose of this man Penn."

					

					"He will soon be disposed of for all time," was the caustic reply.
					Ford could scarcely repress a shudder. He maintained his composure, however, and went
						on in a manner most persuasive: "Your plan is certainly an effective one, but let us not
						forget that Penn is a leader, and if he be summarily dispatched, may it not create such
						a wave of indignation as to cause an alarming increase in the ranks of the Quakers?"
					"Fit food and fine fun for the swords of the cavaliers," answered the bishop.
					"Which I concede, but were it not better to get him out of the country?"
					"It cannot be done, he will not go," said the bishop, "and the sooner he dies the
						better."
					"But he is rich," argued Ford.
					"Let the ,King confiscate his property."
					"England owes him sixteen thousand pounds now," insisted Ford.
					"How do you know this ?" asked the bishop.
					"Through a friend at Court."
					"We will confiscate that also."
					"It can be done," said Ford, "but the crown has troubles of his own just now, if it
						could get rid of this agitator--"
					"Agitator is too mild by half. He is a rank infidel; but what have you to propose?"
					"I hear that Penn has offered to exchange his claim upon the crown for a grant of land
						in America.,"

					

					"The Lord be praised. Give it to him at once and let us hail him to Liverpool and
						secretly pray that a storm may sink his ship in mid-ocean."
					"Will you respite him until the King takes action? He has the matter under advisement,
						I hear."
					"I will not only respite the villain, but I will urge the King to sign the parchment. I
						will keep him in a clean cell until we hear from the King, little as he deserves it,"
						said the bishop, with a dread vision of unpleasant complications should the King
						suddenly sign the patent and begin a search for Penn, and find him dead in the Dungeon
						of the Demons.
					Belch then entered and placing his hand familiarly upon the shoulder of the bishop,
						said: "Bishop, give me that Indian back there."
					"You mean his carcass, I presume."
					"No, he is alive yet, but he is an idiot. I want to exhibit him as a freak."
					"I have no interest in him. His punishment was for carnal reasons. I have naught to do
						with the mad rush for the filthy lucre of this world. My mission is to preserve sacred
						and intact the doctrines, rites and prerogatives of the true church, the bride, the
						Lamb's wife," and the bishop's voice assumed a low monotone.
					"I know all that, but a word from you would release the redskin just the same.
						Moreover, if Penn should establish a colony in America I shall go with him, and should
						like to take the Indian along."


					

					The effect was instantaneous, as Belch knew it would be. The bishop saw a rare chance
						to rid himself of the one man on earth he feared, and hated most.
					"Take him, and may the Lord prosper you," said the bishop eagerly. "Guards, return to
						my presence the prisoner just taken away."
					"William Penn," contiued the bishop when the Quaker appeared, "for the present you
						enjoy a brief respite from the fate you so richly deserve. Thank this man for your
						deliverance," and he waved his hand toward Ford.
					"The will of the Lord be done," said Penn, in the same pleasant voice.
					Ford and Belch departed, followed by the Indian. When they were on the street Belch
						inquired of Ford with eager interest: "What influence did you hope to bring to bear upon
						the King in order to secure that man's release?"
					"None whatever," was the reply. "Last night I overheard the Lord Treasurer talking with
						some one whom I did not know and he stated that Charles had about decided to sign the
						parchment granting Penn the land he desired in America as soon as he could find an
						opportunity to consult the Duke of Monmouth."
					"He still bends his royal ear to that woods colt, does he?"
					"Aye, indeed, and rtmor says the Duke is likely to become his successor."

					

					"The 'Merrie Prince Charlie' is a reckless fellow, but he will never attempt to seat a
						notorious bastard upon the throne of England," said Belch.
					"The Duke is very popular, and the streets of London echo with the assertion that
						Charles married Lucy Walters before the birth of Monmouth, and, that somewhere, there is
						a great, black box which will be opened at the death of the King when the truth will be
						revealed," said Ford.
					"So it will," replied Belch, with a sneer, "and the truth will be as I have stated, but
						what are your designs upon William Penn?"
					"I have already commended myself to his good graces, I believe, and when he goes to
						America, as I am told he contemplates doing, I hope to accompany him as one of his
						trusted advisors."
					"By heavens, you would steal the livery of heaven to serve the.devil in, but here is my
						opportunity. May I go with you?"
					"I could not think of going without you."
					"And this Indian?"
					"We will take him along."
					"I really believe," said Belch, "that Penn regards you as his deliverer."
					"Not he," replied Ford, "he is fully acquainted with every feature of the negotiation
						with the King concerning the grant of land, and he understands full well that the
						situation might have become embarrassing to Joss if he had not been released. I  believe he appreciates the fact that he came out of that den
						a little earlier by my intervention, but say, Belch, it is after midnight and I must
						turn in. Good night."

				

				

				

					CHAPTER III.

					THE WIDOW AND HER SON.

					The news of her son's imprisonment reached the ears of the mother of William Penn early
						the following morning. It did not startle her for many times before this had he been
						arrested and imprisoned for conscience sake, but she never failed to find a reasonable
						excuse for his conduct, and never ceased to visit and comfort him while he was so
						persecuted. She had heard of the horrors of Newgate, but its realities never approached
						her dreams.
					As soon as she could conveniently do so, she attired herself in the plain garb of her
						people and threaded her way through the tortuous labyrinth of muddy lanes to, the Old
						Bailey. Here she stopped and looked across the street, where, directly opposite, she
						beheld the entrance to the awful place that held all that was nearest and dearest to her
						in life. The giant walls frowned upon her with such ominous import as to have utterly
						foiled her in her purpose, had she not been.a mother, but if there was a shadow of fear
						in her breast there was not a line about her features that betrayed it. With easy tread
						and unfaltering courage she crossed the street,  ascended
						the stone steps and presented herself at the door of the jailor's private room. The
						guard on duty blocked the way. His first impulse was to thrust her aside with a curse,
						but when she raised her eyes to his, and he met the gentle, motherly expression they
						bore, he touched his hat and said, "Whom seek you ?"
					"The jailer," she answered in a low, sweet voice.
					"He is very busy just now."
					"Does thee think he will not see me at all?"
					Her speech told the guard that she was a Quaker as plainly as Peter's speech on the
						night before the crucifixion, told that he was a Galilean. Happily, her voice fell upon
						the ear of one who, while off duty had listened to her son in the street the night
						before, and whose heart had been touched, though not turned, by the words of the
						speaker, and he answered "I will see."
					He returned shortly and she was shown into the presence of the jailer.
					"Whom seek you, woman ?" said the latter in a careless tone, merely glancing at
						her.
					"I seek my son," the words fell from her lips like the sweetest music, and caused the
						jailer, accustomed though he was to all classes of people, to start suddenly.
					"Your son, is he employed here?"
					"My son is imprisoned here."
					"His name?"
					"William Penn."

					

					"Penn, Penn, William Penn? I cannot recall the name. What was the charge against him
						?"
					"I know not the charge entered against him, I know what he was arrested for."
					"For what, pray ?"
					"For preaching the doctrine of the necessity of right living and the equality of
						man."
					"Oh, a Quaker preacher."
					"A minister to the Society of Friends," she replied, quietly.
					"Well, mother," said he with a half smile at the hinted correction, "you will have to
						give me time to look him up. You see, there are about twelve thousand Quakers imprisoned
						at one place and another in the King's realm, and it is sometimes difficult to locate a
						given one."
					"It need not be difficult in this case, for he was brought here last night."
					"Oh, I see. I remember now. He was arrested upon the order of Bishop Joss, who
						stipulates that he is to be permitted to see no one."
					"Does the bishop fear the mother of William Penn will do ill either to her son or to
						her sovereign?"
					The question was unanswerable. Her look was so innocently appealing and her voice and
						manner so re-assuring that the jailer hesitated for a moment, then said bluntly, "If he
						fears this mother, I do not. You may see your son."

					

					

						"THE WIDOW AND HER SON."

					


					


					

					He summoned a guard and said, "Take this woman to cell number 31, as she wishes to
						confer with the prisoner confined therein. She is his mother. Leave them together, for
						such mothers as she are not dangerous."
					Misguided mortal. The influence of such mothers as William Penn's has done more to
						overthrow the power of oppressors in all ages than all other influences combined.
					When the mother reached the door of the cell, the face of her son betrayed a look of
						mingled joy and surprise at seeing her, and thrusting his arms between the bars, he
						gently drew her to the iron grating and said, "My mother ! God be praised."
					"My son !" was all she could say at first, as she met the tender expression of his
						eyes. This was enough for him, as it has been for thousands of other sons in
						distress.
					For a time not another word was spoken. Then with the courtesy of a knight and the
						affection of a child, he stooped and pressed a kiss upon her quivering lips and said,
						"So thee has followed thy wayward boy to the prison cell again. A lawless lad is he, I
						fear."
					"The best boy mother ever had," came the soft, soothing reply.
					"A checkered career has he had, mother, and were it not for thy unfailing love and
						devotion, I certainly should have fallen long ago."

					

					"Give God the glory, my son."
					"'Tis many times I have brought the. tears to thy eyes since the day of my birth," said
						he, as he gently stroked her soft, gray hair.
					"The tears that I have shed for thee have been caused to flow by the persecution of
						others," she replied gently.
					"I was always a determined lad."
					"Thee has the firmness of thy father."
					"And, I hope, the character of my mother."
					"'Tis a strong combination, my son. Too many men compel a noble character to be the
						servant of an ignoble ambition."
					"Was my father such a man?"
					"I hope not, although, in his position of Admiral of the King's navy, there was a
						constant temptation to permit ambition to override all other considerations."
					"A stern parent was he, yet I loved him. Thee has not forgotten that, when I was
						expelled from Oxford because of my leaning toward the teachings of the Friends he drove
						me from home and was not slow about it, either. Twice afterward I felt the sting of the
						rod upon my back when he as often turned me out into the cold and cruel world for what
						he considered inexcusable rebellion against parental authority. A full half score times
						have I been imprisoned in one place or another because of my determination to expound
						the doctrine of the  necessity of right living and the
						equality of man, but not once did. I ever get a word of encouragement from my father. I
						was a mature man when I was thrown into the Tower, yet he came to me but once, and then
						he said to the authorities, 'I hardly know what I shall do with that reckless chap. He
						seems determined to bring disgrace upon the whole Penn family and my gray hairs in
						sorrow to the grave.' Yet, for all that, I have loved him none the less, but I have
						loved thee all the more because of the unselfish affection thee has shown me."
					"Thine is a noble spirit, my son. Thy father was not to blame. He was the child of an
						age which boasts of its intelligence and civilization, but which is as wicked as Babylon
						and as carnal as Ninevah. Would to God we could leave this island," said the mother,
						seriously.
					"Perhaps we may sometime, and that reminds me that the King has agreed verbally to
						grant me a tract of land in America for the amount England owed my father when he
						died."
					"So I was told by a man named Ford who came this morning to apprise me of thy arrest."
						"I knew of the King's decision yesterday. But what think thee of Ford, mother?"
					"I liked him not. His actions betray a designing heart."
					"Thou art too suspicious, mother. He heard me preaching in the street last night. A
						child was suddenly trampled under foot. He rescued it, then  embraced the faith, and when I was taken to that awful dungeon he interceded for me
						and I was removed to a clean cell. Ah, my mother, I have heard of the outrages
						perpetrated by the Indians of North America upon their captives, but I am persuaded that
						the combined intelligence of all the savages in the New World cannot conceive of methods
						of torture as barbarous and as terrible as those practiced in England every day. Oh,
						that God may hasten the day when King Charles the Second shall sign the parchment which
						grants me a home in the wilderness of the setting sun, where I may establish a
						government whose foundation is the broad and liberal basis of brotherly love, for I am
						no match for this sensual, corrupted mass of pleasure-loving and soul-starved humanity,"
						and his great heart swelled until his breast rose and fell like the waves of the sea, as
						the thought of the awful condition of the human race swept over him.
					"Surely, my son," she replied tenderly, noting his feelings, "when we see the souls of
						men hurled into the blazing furnace, there is need for such men as thee, who are willing
						to sacrifice station, fortune and even life for the good of others, and if God will that
						thee should establish a free government in the New World for thy colonists, who knows
						but one day a great nation will flourish over there, whose banner shall be an ensign of
						liberty all over the world, and that thy name shall ever be spoken in reverence and love
						because thou hast done so much  for the uplifting of the
						human race and for the establishment of the great principle of the necessity of right
						living and the equality of man."
					"'Tis a happy day-dream, and beyond my comprehension, yet 'tis but natural for the
						mother-heart to build great castles of fame for the shelter and comfort of her children.
						My eye is too dim to pierce thus far into the gloomy haze of the future. Vain and
						vicarious as my fancies have been said to be, I am content to plant a few seeds of
						liberty in a land unpolluted by the evil doings of men in time-old countries and leave
						the rest to Him who doeth all things well."
					"Words fitly spoken, my son. Be firm in thy love of God and steadfast in thy purpose to
						elevate His oppressed and sinful children, and thy reward will surely come, perhaps
						here, perhaps yonder."
					She raised her lips and they met his half way. She impressed a kiss upon them whose
						stamp remained unto his dying day. Another affectionate embrace, another sweetly spoken
						"farewell," and the guard appeared and announced that the time allowed for the visit had
						expired, and she passed out.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER IV.

					A CASE OF MORAL LEPROSY.

					Charles the Second, King of England, reclined in luxurious lassitude upon a couch of
						satin and velvet with its trimmings of eider down and gold. At irregular intervals he
						sent long columns of curling smoke into the air from the bowl of a huge pipe which
						contained some crushed and dried leaves of tobacco, a plant lately discovered in the New
						World, whose inhabitants, he and the white people of his time, were pleased to call
						"savages." This plant had become quite popular among the English people since Sir Walter
						Raleigh introduced it into the Court of "The Virgin Queen," where he had set the example
						of inhaling and exhaling the smoke from its slowly burning leaves after the manner of
						the children of the forest, which pastime was called by civilized people "drinking
						tobacco."
					The character of King Charles the Second and the people of his time did not tend to
						establish in perfect clearness the line of demarkation between civilization and savagry,
						as the Red Man of the forest beyond the blue Atlantic was.already beginning to discover
						to his sorrow.

					

					As the "Merrie Prince Charlie," the most profligate monarch of a century, watched the
						curling ringlets ascend and become dissipated in the atmosphere of the spacious room,
						his finely moulded lips curled in haughty disdain, and an expression of scornful
						contempt swept over his countenance.
					Lazily rising and laying aside his pipe, he went out into the spacious garden and began
						to pace the walk, slowly at first, then with a quick, impatient step, as he soliloquized
						carelessly:
					"Full twenty years and more have I been, by the grace of God, King of England. What is
						a King of England today? An animated manakin. With my father perished that divinity
						which has been for ages the strong right arm of power of Kings. The accursed revolution
						has planted in the English heart the seeds of disloyalty to the time-honored doctrine of
						the divine right of rulers, and these seeds, I fear, bid fair to spring up and grow into
						a liberty tree which shall fill the whole earth.
					"A King to-day is merely a royal butterfly who may be checkmated at every move and
						hampered at every turn. Time was when the King was the state; when his word was the
						undisputed law of the land; his will the unchallenged rule of action, and his conduct
						the accepted code of morals. Now, however, he is compelled to bribe the country
						gentleman with the confiscated estate of his weaker neighbor, the priest and the prelate
						with a few hundred Quakers  to be tortured in their own
						peculiar way and the courtiers and cavaliers with the wives and daughters of ignorant
						subjects who imagine that virtue is something so sacred as not to be sacrificed, even to
						the lust of Kings. Such is civilized England in 'this degenerate day.
					"Charles the Second, King of England, must be stern, unrelenting and austere. 'The
						Merrie Prince Charlie,' quite another person. Flattered by crafty cardinals, cadaverous
						courtesans and conscienceless cynics, who dance to the King's music that they may drink
						the King's wine, bullied by burly bishops whose cruelty would shame the hangman and who
						would barter a soul for a sceptre as quickly as a hungry wolf would barter the fetid
						carcass of a horse for a tender lamb, wheedled and cajoled by hordes of notoriously
						corrupt lords, dukes, earles and squires, whose sole object in life is to flay alive the
						struggling, sweating, rank-scented mob; surrounded by beautiful and ambitious matrons,
						to whom a liaison with some brainless court cad brings greater pleasure than the
						embraces of a lawfully wedded husband; petted by voluptuous votaries of illicit love,
						the sparkle of whose eyes and the charm of whose smiles are studiously fashioned for the
						fascination of susceptible men and whose painted cheeks have ceased to blush, what
						wonder, then, that with such surfeit of recurring events of unceasing pleasure, the time
						hangs heavily upon my hands.

					

					

						"THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS TRUTH.

					

					

					

					"There is no such thing in existence as truth. Every man's honor and every woman's
						virtue is for sale. True, some haggle more than others about the price, and when this
						haggling is very obstinate and very skillful, it is given some fine name. The chief
						trick by which men keep up the price of their honor is called integrity, and the
						dominant influence by which women are able to place a fictitious value upon their virtue
						is called modesty. Such sentiments as love of and loyalty to God, to country, to the
						hearth and the home, to friends and to the marriage relation are but fleeting fancies in
						the diseased mind of the vagrant dreamer.
					"The flame of honor has been extinguished in the putrid waters of selfishness and the
						fountain of virtue is congealed in the icy embrace of vice.
					"With my mother, chastity died and in her arms it was buried. Ha, ha. I forget me,
						there yet remains Catharine, my Queen, and her coterie of Jesuitic maids, female men,
						the very sight of whose bony bosoms would freeze the fountain of love in the breast of
						the most amorous debauchee in all my court and Kingdom."

				

				

				

					CHAPTER V.

					WHO WAS LUCY WALTERS?

					"Good morning, sire."
					The speaker, a man perhaps thirty years old, approached the King unannounced and stood
						before him with a familiar air. He was attired in the faultless costume of a courtier of
						the time. His features were handsome, his form erect, his manner pleasing, and his voice
						low and gentle. Upon his lofty brow was the indelible imprint of the noble breeding and
						royal birth of the one he addressed.
					"The Duke of Monmouth!" exclaimed the King, grasping the extended hand and pressing it
						warmly to his heart, while his bosom rose and fell with waves of emotion. "Come into my
						drawing room." "With the compliments of the day, sire," replied the other, pleasantly,
						as they walked along, though he did not remove his hat.
					"Address me no more as 'sire,' "said the King, gravely, when they had entered the
						palace and seated themselves.
					"And why not?" asked the Duke in surprise. "'Tis but an empty shell, a hollow mockery,
						fit only to pass the foul lips of hypocritical flatterers, 
						
							WHO WAS LUCY WALTERS?"
							"THE ONLY WOMAN I EVER LOVED."
						
						
						 who today are your friends--tomorrow your enemies. Let
						fawning sycophants and cringeing parasites address their sovereign so, but from your
						sacred lips let me hear only' that dearest of all words-- 'father,' "replied the
						King.
					"The most precious boon I have ever craved has been granted without the asking. 'Tis
						the word that lingers longest on my lips and falls sweetest upon my ear--except
						one."
					"And what is that?" inquired the King.
					"Mother," replied the Duke, softly.
					"Mother," repeated the ,King, reflectively.
					A pause, then the Duke went on: "I love the word 'father' and the man whom I can thus
						address, but have I no mother?"
					"You once had."
					"And who was she?"
					"Lucy Walters."
					"Who was Lucy Walters?"
					"The only woman I ever loved," and the king's voice quivered.
					"And whose son--"
					"I would gladly have become my successor to the crown," said the King.
					"What is to hinder?" inquired the Duke earnestly.
					"You are my father, Lucy Walters, being my mother and the only woman you ever loved;,
						must, of course, have been your wife, and since there is no issue by Catharine, am I not
						the only person in the direct line of succession?"


					

					"I wonder if he has never heard," murmured the King to himself, then aloud, trying to
						divert the thoughts of the Duke, "All England loves you, my son."
					"Yes," he replied, "all England loves me. 'Tis but a little while since I returned from
						Scotland and France laden with the trophies of victory and when I passed through the
						streets of London the populace went wild with delight."
					"Did they, really?"
					"They did, indeed."
					"That was a glorious victory which you achieved over the stubborn dissenters of
						Scotland and I must add new honors to those you have already earned; but why do you
						appear at Whitehall at this time? It seems to me it was but lately that I ordered you to
						quit the realm and here you are in my drawing room before your tracks disappear from the
						way of your going. Can it be that the fancy of finding some new feminine attraction has
						induced you to return to England at the risk of the punishment that awaits those who
						disobey the King? Think well, my son, before you so recklessly defy the King's decree.
						'Tis long you will search in these degenerate days for a pair of unkissed lips in
						England. Even Lady Shrewsbury, whom everybody regarded as the pink of perfection and
						modesty, but lately dressed herself in the garb of a page and held the horse of the Duke
						of Buckingham and coolly watched him run her  husband
						through with his sword. Base, ignoble people. Civilized barbarians, the like of which no
						other age or country ever knew," said the King.
					"Yes," replied the Duke, "I suppose I am under the ban of the King but I hardly know, I
						am under it so often here of late. However, if I were under a dozen bans of the King I
						would come to Whitehall to see my father."
					"A noble son," exclaimed the King, again grasping the hand of the Duke.
					"Of a nobler sire," replied the Duke, warmly returning the grasp.
					"And so, the people shout when you ride through the streets of London ?" said the King,
						believing he had succeeded in diverting his son's attention from the unpleasant subject
						of his mother.
					"Whenever and wherever I appear, father." "Another evidence of the good sense of the
						English people."
					"And do you thus believe?"
					"'Tis the sentiment of my truest, my innermost heart," assented the King.
					"Some have even gone so far as to shout 'Long live the Prince of Wales,' " volunteered
						the Duke.
					"Let the plant grow," replied the King with a smile which the Duke did not understand,
						then he went on, "and did none say you nay?"
					"Only once," replied the Duke carelessly.
					"Tell me of it," insisted the King eagerly.

					

					"At one place," said the Duke, "in mid-street at night, when the crowd became so dense
						as to block my way, an old hag, whose face was almost hidden by a ragged, black mantle,
						wormed her way through the throng until she reached my side when she peered at me with
						her one uncovered eye, then said, in loud, shrill, cutting tones: 'Ha! ha! don't lose
						all your senses until the great, black box is opened, ha! ha!' and she vanished in a
						dark alley in spite of the efforts of my guards to overtake her. The very ground seemed
						to, swallow her."
					The head of the haughty King drooped low upon his breast. He turned, rose and walked to
						the window, muttering, "I thought that old mid-wife was dead. I wonder where she has
						hidden the great black box. She alone knows of its whereabouts and I alone know of its
						contents, yet I fear she suspects the truth. But how am I to divert the attention of the
						Duke from this distressing subject? Oh, Lucy Walters, I would give half of my kingdom if
						you could enter this room at this moment the beautiful wife of Charles the Second, King
						of England."
					Glancing toward a nearby ante-chamber, he saw, through the half-open door, a long
						purple robe made of the finest fabrics and broidered with the most costly trimmings.
						Taking it down, he turned to the Duke and smiled as he placed it about the manly form
						before him, and said, "Here, my son, is one of the rarest robes in any palace in all
						Europe. It is  never worn except on the occasion of the
						death of a foreign prince. Is it not beautiful?"
					"Indeed it is," replied the Duke, admiring himself in the mirror which covered the wall
						before him.
					"Hereafter," said the King, proudly, "it is my will that you appear in this robe upon
						the anniversary of your birth and ever afterward upon the public occasion just
						mentioned. What greater distinction could your sov--, your father confer upon you?"
					"None, I am sure, unless it be to tell me--" and the Duke hesitated in his cruel
						pursuit of the wounded quarry.
					"Tell you what?" and a pained expression crossed the countenance of the King, as his
						eyes, hitherto downcast, were raised in mute appeal to those of his son.
					"Tell me more about my mother," and the comely half-royal scion of a heaven-forbidden
						love looked eagerly into the eyes of the father, at the same time stroking the soft,
						silken folds of the priceless garment as he would have stroked the coat of some pet
						animal.
					"So I will, my son, in all good time," said the King, quickly recovering his composure,
						"but tell me, have you wandered about the humbler quarters of London often during the
						past few years?"
					"Quite often, father, for I would fain strengthen my hold upon the good will of the
						people, since, after all, with the people lies the power."

					

					"You have spoken, truly, my son, and since you mingle much with the mob, what hear you
						of a new sect of religious fanatics called Friends?"
					"Much indeed do I know of them and a pesky brood they are," replied the Duke, "sensible
						people call them Quakers."
					"In honor or dishonor?"
					"In the profoundest contempt. 'Tis a nickname that will prove a stigma of disgrace upon
						them throughout all ages."
					"May it not become a badge of honor?--such things sometimes do."
					"God forbid that it should."
					"But what do they teach?"
					"The necessity of right living and the equality of man."
					"Ha! ha!" laughed the King, "fanatics, indeed. Mere promulgators of some new scism.
						Heretics who doubtless should be suppressed but whose favor I may sometime need in
						promoting schemes of my own. Have they no works extant which explain their
						doctrine?"
					"They have nmny comprehensive books in the hands of the mob, for they work among the
						lower classes. Only recently one Robert Barclay published a volume which he called 'An
						Apology,' and which is addressed to 'His Majesty, King Charles the Second.' I suppose it
						now lies in the court library, although I have not yet found time to read it." 

					

					"You are right, my son, I believe my attention has been called to some such book, but,
						like you, I have neither the time nor the inclination to tear myself away from the grave
						affairs of state nor the innocent follies of my court in order to investigate matters of
						such slight import as this, yet I am told that this so-called Society of Friends is
						increasing in numbers quite rapidly, notwithstanding the justly merited chastisements
						they are receiving at the hands of my faithful minions."
					"'Tis but too true, and, unless more severe measures are resorted to, I fear they will
						cause England much trouble. There is one man in particular who has been very active in
						their behalf during the past few years, and who, on account of his liberal education,
						his affable manner and his great wealth, is already an important factor in this
						agitation and should in some way be put to silence."
					"Who is he?"
					"His name is William Penn. He is the son and heir of the late Admiral Sir William
						Penn."
					"And is the Admiral dead?" asked the King in surprise.
					"He has been dead these ten years."
					"I remember now. How stupid of me to ask such a question. I was thinking of a little
						stake of ten thousand pounds I lost a few nights ago, at the cloth, when the Duchess of
						Portsmouth kept insinuating her lips between my eyes and the cards. I was  wondering where I could lay a tax upon the people in order
						to re-imburse myself and cause the least resistance. This might be done by imposing
						heavy fines upon Quakers. But tell me, is this Penn the younger a veritable
						scapegrace?"
					"Such he may be styled, I take it," replied the Dfke. "He was certainly beyond the
						Admiral's control on account of the necessity of the father being away at sea so much.
						The Admiral turned him out of house and home twice and beat him soundly, because of his
						attachment to the new sect, but he would not recant. Then he sent him to Oxford, where
						he was expelled for teaching his heresies; next he sent him to Ireland to look after his
						estates; here he was arrested while preaching on the streets of Dublin. He was ejected
						from home the third time but was taken in again. The climax came twelve years ago when
						he was arrested while preaching in the streets of London and sent to the Tower. This
						broke his father's heart and he went to his grave two years later. Penn, the younger,
						has been imprisoned half a score of times since then and evert now is an inmate of
						Newgate."
					"A reprobate son of an honored sire," said the King.
					"But why are you so particularly interested in him, father?" asked the Duke.
					"Being the son and heir of Admiral Sir William Penn, England owes him sixteen thousand
						pounds," answered the King, bluntly.

					

					"And England is able to owe it," said the Duke, laughing.
					"But the fellow is pressing his claim with as much persistence as he appears to preach
						his doctrine."
					"Confiscate the debt to the crown," said the Duke.
					"And insure for myself the enmity of a people I may sometime need as my friends. Oh,
						no, my son, I have a much better card in my hand than confiscation."
					"And what is that?"
					"He proposes to accept a grant of land in that savage infested wilderness, America, and
						cancel all claims against the crown. What say you shall I do with that card?"
					"Play it at once by all means," said the Duke. 'Twill be good riddance of bad
						rubbish."
					"Then hand me that parchment which lies beside your left hand. No, the other. That is
						the one. It is the patent all prepared and ready to be signed. Where is my pen? Here it
						is. There, the deed is done. Attach the Great Seal of the King to it, my son.' Now go
						and tell the Lord Treasurer I have signed and sealed the document that conveys to
						William Penn the land in question. I would his father were living and that he might yet
						reclaim his wayward son."
					"He could never do so, father."

					

					"And why not?" asked Charles, in surprise. "There is one who wields an influence over
						him that nothing can overcome."
					"Who is it?" said the King, in a tone of half alarm.
					"His mother," answered the Duke.
					The King raised his eyes in mute appeal, the Duke took his hand, pressed it warmly and
						departed.

					

					

						"HIS MOTHER."

					

					

				

				

				

					CHAPTER VI.

					ALL HEARTS NOT MADE OF STONE.


					The King gazed earnestly after the Duke for a few moments then began to pace the floor,
						as was his habit at such times, saying to himself: "After all, there is in every heart a
						spark of genuine true love. I felt that love when Lucy Walters was my sweetheart, and I
						feel it every time her son, who to me is still 'my boy', approaches me. The Duke of
						Monmouth knows that Lucy Walters was his mother but he does not know--. Well, well, when
						I am dead the black box will tell its own story, provided that old hag does not become
						restive and reveal its secret sooner. I will see her and increase her pension if she
						will keep both the box and her mouth closed. Come, page, where are you?"
					"Here, your Majesty."
					"Always on duty, always faithful. Would there were more like you. What do you know of
						the whereabouts of that agitator, William Penn?"
					"He is safe in Newgate, your Majesty."
					"Since when?"
					"A week ago."
					"By whose orders?"

					

					"By the orders of Bishop Joss, your Majesty." "Upon what charge was he arrested ?"
					"Street preaching for the Quakers, your Majesty."
					"The bishop is too zealous by far. The Duke of York excels in the art of persecuting
						people for political offenses, but for downright curelty comnmend to me a High Churchman
						who believes his mitre to be in jeopardy. What do you know about the character of
						William Penn, page?"
					"It is above reproach. Would mine were as pure."
					"Are you already a Quaker?" asked the King, turning suddenly upon the page.
					"Not I. I am orthodox, brain, bone and blood."
					"Why so?"
					"Because it pays better and is safer."
					"A truth frankly spoken. There are others more diplomatic yet less honest; but upon
						what do you base your opinion of the character of Penn?"
					"I mingle much with the mob. I was present in the disguise of a fish monger when he was
						last arrested."
					"Enough; go, now, and send a messenger to Newgate with orders to release William Penn
						and deliver to him this message."
					The page, who was a very intelligent and highly educated young man, bowed low and
						retired. The messenger hastened to Newgate. Penn was brought 
						

							"GOOD MORNING, FRIEND CHARLES." 

						
						
						 out of his cell and the message delivered to him. When he
						broke the seal, he read, in the hand writing of the King himself, these words:

					
						
							

								

									
										
											
    Whitehall, England,March
												3d, 1681
										
									

									William Penn, Esquire:

									You are commanded to appear in the presence of your King tomorrow morning at
										ten o'clock.

									
										Charles the Second, King of England.
									

								
							
						
					

					At the appointed time, Penn entered the chamber of the Privy Council of his sovereign,
						attired in the garb of a Quaker and without removing his hat, said, in a pleasant tone:
						"Good morning, Friend Charles, did thee send for me?"
					The Councillors stared at each other and then at the King in blank amazement at the
						bare-faced effrontery of a man who should be so recklessly bold as to enter the royal
						presence without uncovering his head. The King, however, being in a pleasant humor,
						removed his own hat, placed it upon his knee and said, "Good morning, Friend William.
						Yes, I sent for thee and right glad am I tc see thee looking so well."
					"But why does thee remove thy hat, Friend Charles?" said Penn, seating himself without
						invitation.
					"Because it is a custom that but one person shall  sit in
						this Council with head covered," replied the King, assuming a careless air.
					"A custom that were better for the breach than the observance, Friend Charles, and
						really, I have no desire to be so honored, so, if it please the King and Council, may we
						all sit with covered heads, being all equal before God," said Penn, with innocent
						simplicity.
					"So mote it be. Councillors, observe the manner of your King," said Charles, gravely
						putting on his hat and smiling. The Councillors obsequiously followed his example. The
						King then said, addressing Penn:
					"And now, Friend William, thou art fully satisfied to accept the grant of land in
						America in lieu of all thy claims against England?"
					"Fully satisfied, Friend Charles."
					"Thou wilt trouble me no longer on this score if I grant it?"
					"The debt will be fully cancelled."
					"Thou wilt always be true to thy sovereign?"
					"No Penn was ever otherwise."
					"Then, receive from my hand the parchment, signed and sealed, which makes thee
						proprietor of a vast amount of land in the New World," and he passed the charter to
						Penn.
					"For which, Friend Charles, receive my sincerest gratitude," said Penn, rising to go.
						"Wilt thou soon depart for that country?"

					

					"As soon as I can arrange my affairs here but not before next year. My wife is not
						strong, my children are young and my mother is much broken in health, so I cannot leave
						them yet."
					The countenance of the King fell beneath this simple remark and he mentally observed,
						"Oh, that within my own heart such a flame as that were burning today," then to Penn,
						"But thou wilt honor me with a visit before thou goest?"
					"With all my heart, as I have somewhat to say to thee," and Penn withdrew.
					As speedily as possible, Penn prepared to depart for America. The first thing he did
						was to engage \William Markham as his trusted agent, in order that he, himself, might
						have more time to look after his general interests. One day, as he was walking along
						Grace Church street, he met Ford on the exact spot where he was arrested on the fateful
						night heretofore mentioned.
					"Good morning, Friend," said he extending his hand. "I know thee as the man who rescued
						the child from being crushed to death and then embraced the faith. I have often thought
						how I might reward thee for thy noble deed."
					"There is one great boon I would crave at thy hands, Friend William," said Ford,
						eagerly.
					"And what is that?"
					"I would go with thee to America."
					"That thee may do, Friend--what is thy name?

					

					"John Ford."
					"Then, Friend John, thou shalt go with me as an assistant to William Markham who is
						already in America and who, I fear me, is overworking himself."
					"May the Lord bless thee," replied Ford, meekly.
					"I will report tomorrow."
					"Thee had better do so, Friend John, as we have much to do before our good ship sails
						for the New World. My mother grows weaker and weaker and J have grave fears that she
						will not be able to see me off."
					They parted, and half a square away Ford darted down an alley, entered a hovel and
						slapped Belch on the shoulder with such force as to startle him. "Congratulate me,
						Belch." said he loudly.
					"Upon what?" inquired Belch.
					"I am to be an under-secretary to William Penn."
					"How do you know?"
					"He told me so not twenty minutes ago." "Then we are to go, to America."
					"Where I shall grow rich--," said Ford eagerly. "Swindling the natives," interrupted
						Belch, "and I shall grow famous inciting them to deeds of violence and teaching them
						civilized methods of torture.
					"You are a villain incarnate," said Ford.
					"John Ford," said the other sternly, "the human  race is
						but a horde of ferocious beasts of prey, going about seeking whom they may devour. The
						lion gloats over the carcass of the tiger; the tiger waylays and destroys the bear; the
						bear, in turn, feasts to the fullest fatness upon the body of the wolf and the wolf
						banquets to gluttony upon the slain lamb. 'Tis the law of nature. Satiate your appetite,
						of whatever character it may be. Never mind broken hearts, ruined homes and swimming
						eyes. They are but children of a maudlin sentiment fit only for the sympathy of the
						Quakers and their kind. But when do we sail?"
					"September first," replied Ford carelessly.
					"'Tis not far away and I must prepare to take my last leave of England and my friends,"
						replied the other.
					"There are few, I take it, who will mourn your departure."
					"There are those who will grieve when I am gone."
					"Name them."
					"The friends of Bishop Joss," was the cool reply.
					"Better drop that coal of fire, Belch, it will burn you."
					"When the sun sets upon his life. Good night."

					

					From the place of his meeting with Ford, Penn returned directly to the bedside of his
						mother. She  had grown visibly weaker since he left her for
						a walk, but an hour ago. Her voice was so feeble that she could only speak in a whisper.
						Her eyes beckoned him to come nearer. He took her thin, pale hand in his and bent his
						ear almost to her lips. Slowly and firmly she closed her fingers about his and
						whispered:
					"William, my noble boy, my last sun is rapidly sinking in the beautiful horizon of the
						west. Oh, how glorious is its reflection against the golden sky. My race is almost run
						and how supremely happy the ending. My life-boat is afloat upon the River of Life and
						how lovely are its flower-laced borders. It is just a little way to the other side. My
						hourglass is rapidly running empty and every grain of sand is turning to a grain of
						gold. The fruit has become fully ripened upon the parent tree and the coming of the
						autumn time is at hand, when it will drop into the lap of its mother. My soul has
						fulfilled its humble mission on earth and only awaits the warm breath of heaven to waft
						it to the Beautiful Isle of Roses, where the white winged angels will meet it upon the
						vestibule of life and welcome it home. My son, be thou faithful unto death and thou
						shalt receive a crown of life."
					She ceased to speak. A smile wreathed her saintly lips. Slowly her fingers relaxed
						their grasp upon those of her son, one short, feeble gasp and the mother of one of the
						noblest creatures to whom  woman ever gave birth passed
						from labor to reward.
					Long and earnestly the son gazed into her eyes but there was no response to his eager
						look. The windows of the soul were darkened forever. The chapter was ended. The book was
						closed.
					
						In the merry month of May,
						Her pure spirit fled away
						To the land where pain and sorrow never come.
						There, forever will she rest,
						In the bosom of the blest,
						In the sunshine of her bright, celestial home.
					
				

				

				

					CHAPTER VII.

					THE QUAKER AND THE KING.

					The last day of the month of August 1682 arrived, and found William Penn in close
						consultation with his assistants. While Ford was at all times apparently busy, he
						allowed nothing to escape his alert eye or his eager ear.
					"And now," said Penn, when all arrangements for the voyage were completed, "I must go
						to my King and bid him farewell."
					When he had quitted the place, Ford went out at another door and informed Belch of the
						decision of the proprietor. He smiled grimly and said, "I will be on hand."
					To Whitehall went William Penn, where he found "The Merrie Prince Charlie" in a most
						excellent mood. After passing the compliments of the day, the King said: "Well, Friend
						William, that was ; noble province I sold thee in North America, but I suppose thee has
						no thought of going there." "Indeed I have," replied Penn, "and I have come to bid thee
						farewell."
					"What! Venture thyself among the savages of North America? What security hast thou that
							 thou wilt not be boiling in their war kettles within two
						hours after setting foot on their shores?"
					"The very best security in the world," said Penn.
					"I doubt that, Friend William. Why, in the clays of "the good Queen Bess" did not Sir
						Walter Raleigh send full seven ship loads of men over there to civilize the natives, and
						what says report was their fate? Boiled alive and served as food at a feast to the Evil
						Spirit for sending them there."
					"The truth about that unfortunate venture, Friend Charles," said Penn, "was that the
						venomous brood of criminals which Sir Walter sent out to civilize the Indians sought to
						make slaves of them but that cannot be done. The Red Man will be thy friend, but thy
						slave, never."
					The King dropped his assumption of the Quaker dialect and went on: "I have no idea of
						any security against those cannibals except a regiment of good soldiers with muskets
						loaded and swords drawn, but I tell you now, with all my good will to you and my
						reverence for the memory of your noble father, I will not send one soldier with
						you."
					"I want none of thy soldiers. I depend upon something to which thy soldiers are
						strangers and that is the moral sense of the Indians themselves, even upon that grace of
						God which brings salvation to all men."
					"I fear, Friend William," said the King, "that the grace of God has not appeared to the
						Indians.  If it had they would hardly have treated my
						subjects as barbarously as they have."
					"Thy subjects were the aggressors. When they first went to North America, they found
						these simple people the fondest, most confiding creatures in the world, who showed the
						strangers every hospitality their surroundings afforded. In return foi this kindness,
						thy subjects, who styled themselves Christians, evil treated the natives. What wonder is
						it then, that they driven to desperation by such inhuman cruelties should commit some
						excesses?"
					"Well then, Friend William, I hope you will not complain when they treat you the same
						way. You no doubt expect to get their land and how will you do it?"
					"I will buy it of them."
					"Buy it, why man, you have already bought it of me."
					"So I have, and at a good, round sum; though I consider that I have paid just so much
						for thy good will, I do not consider thee had any right to sell those lands since they
						did not belong to thee."
					"But they did belong to me," answered the King warmly.
					"By what right?"
					"By the right of discovery and conquest."
					"The word conquest, Friend Charles, is well inserted there, but the right to discover
						something that was already discovered and inhabited, thee could hardly lay claim to with
						justice."

					

					"Why, have not the Pope and all Christian Kings agreed to grant the right of discovery
						and conquest to one another?"
					"So they have and the right of discovery is well granted, but the right to slaughter
						and enslave innocent human creatures, God has given neither to Prince nor Pontiff,
						soldier nor civilian," answered Penn.
					"But, among civilized nations, there is no such thing recognized as the rights of
						barbarians," said the King, driven to bay.
					"Frankly and truly stated," replied Penn, "yet were Justice to mark the boundaries of
						the land of so-called enlightened Europe, she would probably craw the line much nearer
						this side of the Atlantic than it now is."
					"A fine spun theory, Friend William, which is born of a mind made abnormally
						sentimental by a false early education," said Charles, grimly, "but how do you propose
						to subdue the heathens and how will you deal with them ?"
					"If they need to be subdued, which I very much doubt, I shall subdue them with kindness
						and I shall deal with them fairly and honestly as I should hope for them to deal with
						me. The rights of property and the rights of man shall go hand in hand. Neither shall
						oppress the other. I will buy the lands of the rightful owners, the Indians themselves,
						and thus hope to secure the blessings of God upon my colony," replied Penn.

					

					The King and the proprietor arose, both still with covered heads. The former'took the
						hand of the Quaker and said kindly: "Strange fancies fill your mind, my honest friend,
						and they no doubt spring from generous impulses and motives most sincere, but in an age
						as corrupt as this, it were as reasonable to expect a lamb to convince a thousand hungry
						wolves that it was not created to be their prey as for one, weak, human creature, such
						as you, in the very nature of things, must be, to convince the Caucassian race that the
						Indian is not the legitimate prey of stronger and wiser people. Shorn of its tinsel of
						poetry, the future of the Indian race appears a panorama of surcharged streams of blood
						and a boundless plain, white with bleaching skeletons. The march of the civilization of
						this decrepit age, and it is the best and the worst we know, is a heartless, cruel,
						unjust and unholy one, yet it goes ever onward riding rough shod over all opposition and
						crushing under its despotic heel every semblance of resistance. Take my advice, Friend
						William. Go to America, if you must, barter away your lands for a handsome fortune, then
						return to England and live in peace and pleasure during the remainder of your life."
					"Oh, scarlet-robed, soul-stifling, heart-sickening sin! How thou dost dazzle the eyes
						and feed the foolish fancies of a race worthy of the highest motives and noblest
						ambitions, until thou wouldst drag  them down through
						endless ages of misery to the bottomless pit of a dread eternity. Thou art victor now,
						but the time will come, I sincerely believe, when all men shall know the truth and shall
						insist on the necessity of right living and recognize the equality of all men before
						God." The countenance of the Quaker preacher beamed with a halo of the purest light as
						he thus spoke, apparently addressing some invisible being, then, to the King he went on:
						"Charles the Second, King of England and my beloved sovereign, thou wert born for a
						better age but a cruel fate has cast thee into this seething caldron and thou canst not
						escape. May thy reign be long, may thy life be useful, may thy last days be thy best
						days and may thy end be full of a joyful anticipation of a life of eternal bliss. As for
						me, I have received a commission from thee to go forth and claim the land of the
						Delawares in the New World; but from God I hold a higher commission. It is to go forth
						and do what I can to save their souls. Farewell, Friend Charles, farewell."
					"May the God you so implicitly trust be with you and prosper you in all your
						undertakings," replied the King, "but the sun is not more sure to shine in the cloudless
						sky of tomorrow's noonday, than is the white race to seal the doom of the Delawares.
						Farewell, Friend William, fare you well."
					As he turned and left the presence of his King, these dreadful words rang like a death
						knell in his  ears. Indeed, as the years went by, his heart
						was made sad and his eyes dim with tears when he saw the steady and certain fulfillment
						of that awful prophecy.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER VIII.

					A SEARED CONSCIENCE AND A WITHERED HEART.

					By day break next morning all was in readiness for the good ship to sail which should
						carry William Penn to the new found land of freedom and right. For an hour, by one
						pretext or another, Ford had been able to postpone the putting off of the vessel and was
						just about at the end of his resources. His snaky eyes pierced the heavy fog with
						intense eagerness as if searching for someone not yet aboard. Suddenly two dark objects
						were seen coming down the street in great haste, and a moment later, Belch, panting like
						a run down stag, stumbled across the gang plank, followed by the Indian, who trotted
						behind him with perfect ease.
					As soon as they reached the deck, Ford announced that all was ready, when the anchor
						was weighed, the sails were unfurled, and on the first day of September, 1682, the
						bonnie ship, "Welcome," sailed away on the wings of the wind.
					There were no electric lights in those days to illuminate every portion of the ship
						with a brightness that turned night into day. Not even was the kerosene lamp known and
						when at the hour of midnight  Ford stealthily crept along
						the dark passages of the hold of the vessel, he was in little danger of being discovered
						by anyone whom he wished to avoid. Holding aloft a lighted wax candle, he descended into
						a damp, dismal corner whose foul air almost stifled him, and said eagerly: "Heavens,
						Belch, what kept you so long?"
					"A little matter of business," was the reply. Bingoo crouched at his feet.
					"What do you mean?"
					"Ha, ha; say, Ford, it is lucky this Indian is daffy or 'it would be necessary for me
						to send his soul to the happy hunting grounds before I relate to you my experience
						during the past twenty four hours," chuckled Belch, and his eyes gleamed with a wicked
						satisfaction that would have done honor to the most accomplished demon in Pluto's dread
						domain.
					"Have you committed some awful crime?" said Ford, as he eagerly scanned the face of the
						villain before him.
					"Do you remember what I told you would satisfy my thirst for revenge? I am satisfied. I
						no longer hunger nor thirst," replied Belch.
					"What?" exclaimed Ford, with his finger nails sinking into the fatty flesh that covered
						the neck of the other. "Have you killed the King?"
					"Take your puny finger nails out of my flesh, you rogue. They feel like the bite of a
						flea."

					

					

						"BINGOO CROUCHED AT HIS FEET."

					
					

					

					"Answer my question at once. Have you killed the King? Are you a regicide?"
					"No, I have not killed the King. I would to God I had," said the other, sullenly.
					"Then what awful crime have you committed?"
					"Listen," said Belch. "In England there is no such thing as crime. Twelve thousand
						Quakers rot in prison pens like so many swine, but it is no crime. For the Duke of York
						to thrust five hundred innocent women and children into a church in Scotland and set
						fire to it, crying out, while they were roasting alive, 'a savory dish will that be if
						it is not overdone,' was no crime. Certainly not. His highly civilized countrymen will
						make him King some day. For King Charles the Second to tea, from the bosom of a mother
						her virgin daughter, and with a laugh of scorn and defiance, fling that daughter into
						the arms of some moral leper is no crime; and, for Bishop Joss to snatch my mother from
						her husband's embrace and commit her to a fate which was a thousand times worse than
						death, was no crime. All this is only progressive civilization," and the insanity of his
						wrath made the speaker a fearful thing to behold.
					"Cease your senseless vaporings and tell me what you have done," said Ford.
					In a tone whose sarcasm was most cutting, Belch replied: "I have sent Bishop Joss
						to.join the angels. No," and his voice changed at once to deepest humility.  "God forgive the blasphemy," then with an awful expression
						upon his face, he hissed: "I have sent Bishop Joss to hell."
					"About as I supposed. Now the power of the whole' Kingdom will be turned against you.
						But how did you accomplish this awful deed?"
					"Easily enough. I was walking along the street last night about midnight, when I met
						the foxy bishop in a disguise in which I had seen him before. He recognized me at once
						and said: 'Ah, friend Belch, how is it that you are out so late? I hear you are to go to
						America with that infidel, Penn.'"
					"'So I am, and I am walking about bidding farewell to the old familiar haunts in London
						Town,' I replied."
					"'Just the thing to do. By the way, Belch, I have a little job on hand tonight in which
						I need your assistance and if you will help me I will fill your pockets with gold.'"
					"'Tell me and trust me,' I replied." " 'The report is abroad,' said the Bishop, 'that
						the Duke of Monmouth aspires to the crown. The Duke of York wishes him to suspend
						breathing. I know where he is now. If I take care of him I will always be free from
						religious persecution during the reign of James the Second. Now, what say you?"
					"'Show me the quarry,' said I."
					"We walked two, squares ahead and found ourselves following the Duke of Monmouth--or
						his  ghost. He was going toward Newgate. He arrived at a
						dark place beneath the shadow of its walls. 'Now is our time,' whispered Joss. We seized
						the fellow, threw a heavy, black cloak over his head and hurried him to the rear gate.
						He fought like a lion. It took our strongest muscles to hold him. 'Here are the keys,'
						said Joss, handing them to me. They were fastened to a chain which was attached to a
						belt about his body. I unlocked the gate, then we forced the prisoner inside. As he
						rushed forward, he whirled the Bishop around with such violence as to snap the links of
						the chain and leave the keys in the lock. I took them out, and, thrusting them into my
						pocket, closed the gate. Then I grasped the prisoner's arm in such a manner as to render
						him helpless. 'Where shall we take him?' I inquired."
					"'To the Dungeon of the Demons,' replied the Bishop."
					"The fellow had evidently heard of the place for he struggled harder than ever and
						cursed us bitterly though his voice did not sound exactly like the voice of the Duke.
						Without further ado, we rushed him through corridor after corridor of secret passages
						until we reached the dreaded spot."
					"'Curse the door, it is closed. The key shaped like the Cross of Calvary is the one
						that unlocks it,' said the Bishop.
					"I unlocked the door and flung it open. The Bishop put forth all his strength to pull
						the supposed  Duke into the cell. In doing so, he swung
						himself around until he was almost immediately in front of the entrance to the den. I
						whispered a word into the ear of the prisoner. He ceased to struggle and said calmly:
						'Must I go into that place?'"
					"'You certainly must,' replied the Bishop, panting with exhaustion."
					"'By whose decree?'"
					"'By the decree of Charles the Second, King of England.'"
					"'What is the accusation?'"
					"'Treason.'"
					"'In what?'"
					"'In attempting to incite the mob of London to overthrow the rightful heir to the
						throne of England and seize it for yourself."
					"'I deny the charge.'"
					"'Well you may, but it will avail you nothing. Duke of Monmouth, you can never be King
						of England, because you are a bastard. Lucy Walters was never married to Charles, and,
						in that cell you shall lie until called upon to answer to the indictment.'"
					"'But I am not--'"
					"'You are guilty--,' yelled the Bishop, releasing his hold upon the
						prisoner's arm."
					"'I am not guilty, and I am not--,'"
					"'You are going in there and you are going now.'"

					

					"I stepped forward until I was almost in front of the Bishop. He stood between me and
						the open door of the dungeon. The foul odor of the place filled my nostrils with stench
						and my soul with fury. I glanced into the place for an instant--only an instant-and, in
						that instant I saw, with my mind's eye the pleading, upturned face of my mother."
					"'In that cell, traitor's await their sentence,' said the Bishop with
						eyes ablaze."
					"But I am not the--' protested the prisoner. He got no, farther."
					"'In that den the murderer of my mother shall meet his doom,' said I
						with a voice like a maniac. I pushed the bishop into the cell, and, slammed the door,
						shut and locked it, just as the stranger finished the sentence he had tried so hard to
						utter, shouting: "I am not the Duke of Monmouth.'"
					"Gods, was it not the Duke of Monmouth?" asked Ford.
					"No."
					"Who was it?"
					"Henry Harold, a seafaring man whom everybody in London knows to, be the double of the
						Duke."
					"What did you do?"
					"I hastened him out of there as quickly as possible and we parted at the prison
						gates."
					"Where were you after that?"
					"Looking for this idiotic Indian who strayed  away from
						home; but here I am, safely aboard and on my way to America where I think I shall turn
						missionary and convert the heathen savages after the manner most approved in civilized
						England."

				

				

				

					CHAPTER IX.

					THE MEETING OF PENN AND TAMINA.

					In the sunny month of October, the vessel which carried the modest, yet powerful
						Quaker, sailed up the broad and beautiful Delaware. Slower and slower moved this
						conquerer of the waves. Like an eagle that folds its wings as it nears the end of its
						flight, the good ship "Welcome" furled her sails, a shudder ran through her frame and
						she was still.
					Upon an elevated platform stood William Penn. His bosom rose and fell, his lips
						quivered and a tear glittered in his eye. The scene before him was truly inspiring.
						Along the shore, as far as the eye could reach, was a solid mass of eager expectant
						humanity. English, Dutch and Sweeds, strong and weak, patriarch and youth, parent and
						child, swain and sweetheart, vied with one another in extending to him a hearty
						welcome.
					Back of these and occupying a long low range of hills that extended parallel to the
						river, stood another great company of people; giants in sature and reddish brown in
						color. Were they really human beings, or were they animals? Did they possess souls or
						were they simply erect specimens of the  brute creation ?
						By common consent, civilized nations had conceded to them the attribute of possessing
						souls but recognized for them no rights which the Caucasian race was 'bound to
						respect--that is, in race contention.
					The garb of these new and strange looking creatures was peculiar and interesting. Their
						clothing was made from the skins of the animals whose homes were the tangled depths of
						the primeval forests. Their individual tastes in matters of dress were almost as
						numerous as that of the whites, which was saying much. They varied from the half tanned
						hear skin carelessly fastened about the middle of the body of the wearer to the most
						exquisitely wrought costumes of those highest in authority. In the hands of the male
						portion of this great throng were their bows, at their backs were their bundles of
						arrows and in their raw-hide belts were their knives and tomahawks. Not a few of them
						carried firearms, for it must not be forgotten that it had been a century since the
						white man first appeared in this portion of the New World.
					Upon the head of each native was a peculiar decoration of some kind. Here was a group
						upon whose heads were seen the wings of a crow or a turkey, there, the tail of a fox was
						attached to the hair, yonder, a portion of the scalp of a wolf. These different
						decorations all denoted the tribes and divisions to which their possessors belonged, yet
						everywhere,  the eagle's plume could be seen, which showed
						that they all belonged to the progressive nation of Delaware Indians. A member of the
						Crow tribe was a member of the Delaware nation. So with the Fox, the Wolf, the Turtle
						and others.
					As the eager eye of the tender hearted Penn swept this elevation from one end to the
						other, his soul was filled to overflowing with love as he mentally exclaimed: "Oh, may
						God give me grace, courage and wisdom to enable me to impart to these simple children of
						the wood the light of His love for them."
					Back over the dusky line his eye ran again and this time it was arrested by the figure
						of a man standing upon a slight elevation in the foreground. This man was Tamina, the
						Great Sachem or chief, of the entire Delaware nation and the wisest Indian that ever
						lived. This great sheik was full six feet tall as he stood upon a broad, flat stone
						whose base was not more firm than the honor in his heart and whose surface was not more
						broad than his charity for the human race. A fancy diadem, of feathers from the plumage
						of the eagle encircled his head. It was of the finest weaving, the most intricate
						workmanship, the richest hues and the rarest value. Only the Great "In-co-ho-nee"--the
						leader of the leaders--was permitted to wear it; yet, beautiful as it was, it was not
						more beautiful than the calm and peaceful countenance it illuminated. Brilliant as was
							THE TRAIL OF THE WHITE WOLF the glow of its many colors
						in the light of that charming October sun, it paled into twilight dimness beside the
						purity of the mind which lay beneath it, and high as the eagles may have soared, whose
						feathers contributed to its composition, they were but quails in the bush when compared
						to the flight of the thoughts of this noble chieftain.
					From beneath the feathery folds of this, nature's crown for nature's king, a profusion
						of long, black hair hung like the festoons of mosses that clung to the adjacent forest
						trees. His eye was clear, steady and calm; his mouth strong, well formed and his lips
						firm but not sensual; his features were brown and swarthy but fine and regular and his
						expression was noble, pure and good.
					Enrobing the majestic form of this exalted ruler of the forest folk, was a suit made of
						the softest fawn skin, and composed of a coat, a pair of trousers, and a broad belt.
					By a process, known only to Tamina and which, even now, is knowfi to but few, this fawn
						skin was made as spotless as the driven snow. It was never worn except upon occasions of
						the greatest importance, and when the Great Sachem of all the Delawares appeared in this
						costume of faultless finish, holding in his right hand the white maple staff and in his
						left hand the white feathered arrow, all his children felt that the Great Spirit was
						near and the profoundest silence prevailed.

					
					

						"MAY THE RED MAN AND THE PALEFACE BE FRIENDS."

					

					

					

					The decorations upon this elegant costume were remarkably fine and beyond the
						comprehension of the whites. Upon the left breast was wrought, in the most intricate
						bead work, the figure of an eagle, under whose protecting wing, partly spread, might
						have been seen the figure of a dove, indicating the supreme desire of the Delawares to
						live at peace with all men. Upon the right breast was wrought in bead work of glistening
						green, a group of stalks of corn, with blades and tassels fully grown and ears matured,
						whose roots penetrated deep into the soil, indicating that there was sufficient
						nourishment in the bosom of mother earth for all her children. Upon the right shoulder
						was a wigwam at sunset, about whose entrance sat the Indian mother and her children,
						anxiously watching for the return of the father from the hunt and upon the left shoulder
						was the figure of an old man leaning upon the strong arm of his son.
					Upon the front portion of the belt, were the words:
					"MAY THE RED MAN AND THE PALE FACE BE FRIENDS."
					As Penn gazed at this wonderful chieftain, the latter turned to look at his people,
						when the Quakcr proprietor caught sight of a picture of a war scene, in bead work on the
						back of the coat, indicating that the last resort should be a conflict at arms.
					When William Penn went ashore, the crowd that  surged
						about him, respectfully gave way and he walked to the outer edge of the assemblage,
						where, facing the Great Sachem of the Delawares, he extended his open, right hand, palm
						upward, which action said: "I seek a home in the land of my brother and a place in his
						generous heart."
					In reply, Tamina raised his right hand and pointed to heaven, then, placing his two
						palms together, slowly separated them, which meant: "May the Great Spirit bless and
						safely guide you; the door of my wigwam is open, enter and be welcome."
					Not a word had been spoken. Tamina understood the English language but Penn had only
						learned a word here and there of the language of the Delawares, yet, there was present
						that subtle influence, better understood now than then, which always reveals the
						affinity of true hearts for each other, and, as Penn walked up the slope, Tamina came
						down and they met half way between the two assemblies and clasped hands in token of that
						friendship which was never to be broken while Penn lived but which, alas, was to form
						only a little green spot through which the Delawares were to march to their certain
						doom.
					The shout that went up from both whites and Indians would seem to have reached the
						uttermost parts of the earth and to have softened every heart in the world. Would to God
						it had done so.
					From the time the good ship "Welcome" had  rounded the
						bend as it came up the Delaware, Bingoo, the witless Indian had been very restless. He
						trotted about the deck utterly regardless of the presence of anyone. Suddenly he rushed
						forward, and, grasping the arms of Ford and Belch, pointed to the center of the host of
						Indians and said eagerly: "Tamina."
					Turning their eyes that way they studied the chief carefully for a time then Ford
						smiled and said: "There is the chief this idiot calls Tamina, the wisest Indian that
						ever lived. He is to be our brother, so says Friend William Penn."
					"Yea, verily," replied Belch, "and we will procecd tc. deal with our brother as seemeth
						best to us in our own good time."
					"Mind how you talk," replied Ford, "even sails, masts and rudders have ears."
					"Never fear, there is no one near but this idiot and he knows nothing."
					"He knows Tamina."
					"As one dog knows another."
					As they went ashore it was necessary for Ford and Belch both to hold the Indian to keep
						him from breaking away, and when they had reached the outer circle of the crowd, which
						they did just as Penn and Tamina grasped hands, he was frantic with joy at the sight of
						his chief. Presently all was still, then, upon the quivering air there fell in loudest
						tones the single word:
					"TAMINA."

					

					"Who speaks the name of the Great Sachem of the Delawares?" said the chief, then
						raising his eyes, he saw Bingoo struggling with those about him. "Speak, paleface
						brother," said he to Penn, "who is that Red Man?"
					Observing the strange actions of the Indian for a moment, Penn replied gravely: "I know
						him not, my brother."
					"Bingoo," shouted the Indian, as if understanding what was said.
					"Bingoo ?" said Tamina, regarding Penn with a look of mistrust and apprehension.
					"I know him not. We will have him here presently," said Penn. Turning, he spoke to
						Ford, who had released his hold upon Bingoo to stronger hands and said: "Loose him and
						let him go."
					"He is a maniac."
					"What says he?" asked Tamina.
					"The man is mad," replied Penn.
					"Let him come," said Tamina.
					"Loose him and let him go," again demanded Penn.
					When he was released a spectacle was presented the like of which had never before been
						witnessed. With a yell the Indian sprang away and started toward Tamina, but, with his
						face turned to the right shoulder while his breast was toward the two great men before
						him, his efforts were so comical that the white people set up a loud laugh, but  neither the face of Tamina nor any of his people relaxed a
						particle.
					When Bingoo neared the spot where the two men stood, he did not go directly to Tamina,
						but circled about him in the wildest glee. Gradually the circle narrowed and when he was
						about six feet away, he sprang between Penn and the Sachem and threw his arms about the
						latter in a manner that convinced the whites that he was truly a maniac. He drew the
						Great Sachem to him in the fondest embrace, then grasped him by the shoulders and
						holding him at arms length, looked at him with that idiotic stare that sent a thrill of
						horror through the body of the chief, Indian though he was. Then he rubbed the face, the
						hands, the head, the coat, and the arms of the chief as a child would stroke some pet
						animal, all the time gibbering something which Penn did not understand.
					"The Great Sagamore of the Delawares," said Tamina, caressing him as he would a child.
						Then he turned an anxious look of inquiry toward Penn.
					"I never saw him until now," replied the latter in a tone most convincing.
					"He is the victim of some terrible torture at the hands of the palefaces. Three great
						suns (years) ago they persuaded me to let him go away. They said the great white father
						across the big salt sea wished to see him. They told me they would treat him well and
						return him safely. When he left  my side he was a perfect
						man. He returns with a broken body and a darkened mind. It is the same old story of the
						basest cruelty, the most heartless ingratitude and the vilest treachery which has always
						marked the conduct of the whites toward the Red Man and yet, when the child of the
						forest turns against his persecutors, they call him a savage. Take him back to those who
						have thus deformed him. He is no longer an Indian," and the Great Sachem waved his hand
						toward the crowd of whites. "Go, Bingoo, sometime Tamina may call for you."
					Without a word the Indian began to dance around in a circle again. Larger and larger it
						grew until it became about two rods wide, when, with a yell and an upward leap, he ran
						back to Belch and crouched at his feet like a dog, panting with exhaustion.
					When he had done so, Penn turned to Tamina and said: "What the Great Sachem of the
						Delawares says is too true but I come not among you with bloody hands; my mission is one
						of peace and love."
					"So have they all said," replied Tamina.
					"If the Great Sachem will permit me to come to his wigwam, I believe I can convince him
						that what I say is true," said Penn.
					"When seven suns (days) have passed let my paleface brother meet me at my wigwam which
						stands upon the highland beside the Great River."
					"So shall it be," said Penn, and they parted.

					

					
						"WHEN HE LEFT MY SIDE HE WAS A PERFECT MAN."
					

					

				

				

				

					CHAPTER X.

					THE BOND ETERNAL.

					At the appointed time William Penn left the ship unattended and wended his way to the
						wigwam of the Great Sachem of all the Delawares. It was situated upon a beautiful
						elevation which overlooked the broad and shining bosom of the mighty river bearing the
						same name. This wigwam was a marvel both in the manner of its construction and of its
						component parts. There were two entrances on either side and one at either end and it
						was divided into four general compartments, the one at the northern extremity occupying
						half the space enclosed and being used as a council chamber. The other three were of
						different sizes, the one at the southeast corner, and nearest the river, being a private
						apartment, into which Tamina took his friends when he desired to consult them upon
						matters of the greatest importance. This remarkable wigwam had been constructed by
						planting evergreen trees in the earth ten feet apart and twining their boughs together
						in such a manner as to form an oval in shape with flat sides and a convex roof. From the
						sunny southland palmetto trees had been brought whose 
						broad leaves were interwoven with the others in such a manner as to form a water shed so
						perfect that not a drop of rain nor a flake of snow could penetrate it.
					The skins of the buffalo covered the outside of this palace of the emperor and were so
						arranged as to entirely exclude the keenest blast of the coldest winter. The habitation
						of the Red Man was always built with a view to warding off the blows of the storm-king
						of the north, for, when the warm breath of the sunny eyed maiden of the southland fell
						upon his dusky cheek, he went forth from his wigwam and lived in sweet contentment
						beneath the overhanging boughs of the towering evergreens.
					The ingenuity with which this wigwam was constructed and the manner in which its
						coverings were arranged filled the palefaces with wonder. As William Penn examined it,
						he could not repress his surprise but said to himself: "And are these the people whom
						King Charles the Second calls bloodthirsty savages and ravenous cannibals?"
					Without a sign of ostentation or a word of boasting, Tamina led his visitor through the
						interior of his home. Upon the inner walls were hung a number of deer and bear skins,
						tanned to a rich, golden brown and smooth as velvet. Upon these were to be seen rude
						sketches representing the trophies of the hunt, the trail and of war. About the floor at
						convenient places in the large apartment,  were boughs of
						native trees upon which were spread the skins of animals and upon these the sagamores
						reclined and conversed with one another while they awaited the coming of their
						chief.
					Leading the way, Tamina entered the private apartment just mentioned, and seating
						himself upon a robe made of the skin of a white buffalo, motioned Penn to a place
						opposite him. As the latter assumed the place his hand touched the robe beneath him and
						he noticed that it was softer than velvet. Tree to the frankness of his nature, he at
						once began to examine it and found that it was made of the skins of the mole, a small,
						burrowing creature whose coat is softer than that of any other fur bearhig animal. One
						thousand of these mole skins entered into its composition and so neatly were they united
						that the skill of the most expert needle-woman in all England would have been taxed to
						the uttermost to imitate the workmanship. At other places lay the skins of a huge
						grizzly bear, a mountain lion, a black deer and of many smaller animals.
					Upon the walls Penn noticed many rare, valuables of various kinds, including a robe of
						spotless white fawn skin upon which was wrought an intricate network of bead lacing, the
						beads having been made of pearls found by the Indians who gathered oysters from the
						great bays at hand. There was also a large collection of stone hatchets, arrows, darts,
						spears and other relics of former times and  ages. Of
						special value were the necklace of pearls worn by Ocalla, the Cherokee Indian queen, of
						whom we shall hear more later on, when she welcomed DeSoto to her home opposite Silver
						Bluffs, on the Savannah river in what is now the state of South Carolina, and the
						feather mantle of Montezuma, the only treasure belonging to the great Aztec chief, which
						escaped the eagle eyes of the greedy Cortez and his followers.
					Stepping forward, Tamina threw back the curtain that closed the eastern entrance to his
						private room and when the proprietor turned, his eyes rested upon a scene that was
						inspiring in the extreme. Below them lay the Delaware, enchanting in its beauty, sublime
						in its greatness and majestic in its silence. Beyond its crystal tide extended the
						boundless forest, along whose fringing edges the whites had cut little scallops into
						which they had crept and planted their settlements, while from out the tangled
						underbrush came numerous sparkling streamlets that lost themselves in the bosom of the
						river.
					"The scene is very beautiful," said Penn.
					"'Tis the work of the Great Spirit," replied Tamina.
					"See how the setting sun lights up the whole picture," said Penn.
					"'Tis the parting smile of the Great Spirit when he is pleased with his children,"
						replied the chief.

					

					"Surely, in such a lovely country as this, boundless in its extent and limitless in its
						resources, the Red Man and the white man should be friends for all time," said Penn,
						with great earnestness.
					"So they should, but it can never be," answered the chief, without removing his eyes
						from the scene beyond the river.
					"And why not?" asked Penn.
					"Because the speaking books of the paleface. which teach him his wisdom, make him
						mistrustful and covetous. There is no limit to his greed. He never has enough. The Red
						Man gives him a canoe, he wants a thousand. The Red Man gives him a river, he wants a
						hundred. The Red Man gives him more land than he can see over, he wants more than ten
						generations could walk around in a hundred great suns (years). If a paleface should
						conquer the whole world, he would make a canoe to carry him through the air, to other
						worlds which he would conquer."
					"Great brother Onas, your heart is right, your words are true, your hands are clean. If
						only such as you would come to us the Red Man and the paleface could then be friends,
						but the paleface nation desires the Red Man to be their slave and this they will never
						do. Before the paleface set foot upon our shores the Red Man knew no such words as
						"Slave" and "Slavery" and he will never submit to such dreadful torture now. He is ready
						to  sheathe within his heart the cold steel of the death
						dealing dagger but he will never be a slave. For this reason the decree has gone forth
						among all the paleface nations, that since the Red Man refuses to bare his back to the
						merciless lash of the slave driver, his race must be destroyed and a blot of blood must
						mark the page upon which his history should have been written. No, no, brother Onas, it
						can never be. From the moment the first paleface set his foot upon the fertile bosom of
						the New World, the death of the Indian was decreed, the doom of the Delawares was
						sealed."
					"Oh, great hearted chieftain, I fear there is much truth in what thee says. Would to
						God that I could bring to thee the virtues of England and leave her vices at home. But
						may thee not be mistaken in thy opinion of the feeling of the white race toward the
						Indian?"
					Closing the flaps of the wigwam door, Tamina went to one corner of the room and turning
						aside several robes, drew forth what appeared to be a parcel. It was wrapped in the skin
						of a wolf around which was coiled the skins of a number of rattlesnakes. Slowly he
						removed the coverings and drew forth a gruesome looking object which sent the blood
						shivering through the veins of the tender hearted Quaker. It was a large piece of skin
						from the back of an Indian, and was as smoothly polished as ever skin of the tenderest
						fawn was dressed.
					"What is it?" asked Penn, in horror.

					

					"It is the skin of a Red Man upon which were tattooed certain marks and figures as you
						see. These the palefaces declared indicated places where rich treasures were concealed
						so they killed the Red Man and tanned his skin, in order that sometime they might use it
						to guide them to where the supposed treasures were hidden," said Tamina.
					Calmly placing it beside him, he drew forth from the parcel an iron bar and held it up
						before his visitor: "That," said he, "is the iron which was held by a paleface when he
						burned out the eyes of A-ta-hual-pa, the Great Sachem of the Incas of Peru, after the
						Christian Spaniards had decided that he should not be burned alive but should be
						strangled at the stake, and after he had been promised his liberty if he would fill the
						room in which he was confined with gold. He filled the room with gold valued at four
						million pounds of your wampum and yet his eyes were burned ovt with this iron, after
						which, he was strangled at the stake, a deed which a Christian priest declared to be 'an
						evidence of God's mercy.'"
					"I am surprised at the extent of your knowledge concerning such things," said Penn.
					"There is much more that I do not know but look at this," said the Indian with the
						utmost coolness.
					"What is it?" asked Penn.
					"It is the tongue of the Indian guide who led  DeSoto to
						the Great Father of Waters. DeSoto wanted the young Indian to cross the big river with
						him and guide him further but the young man could not do so for he had never been across
						the river himself and did not know a trail in the forest beyond. When he told the
						Spanish chief this, the latter became very angry and ordered his tongue to be cut out,
						saying, when it had been done: 'Now, you Indian dog, you have lied to me. Go back to
						your heathen home and see if you will tell any more lies. Take this with you,' and he
						thrust the tongue into the belt of the young Indian who disappeared in the forest and
						finally reached the home of his people where he soon died."
					"Oh, it is horrible to contemplate," said Penn.
					"So it is, but I have one more bit of evidence to show you in support of my opinion;
						here it is," and he held the mummefied hand of an Indian maiden before the great
						reformer.
					"What awful story of civilized atrocity is connected with that?" asked Penn with a
						shudder.
					"That," said the Sachem, as he lowered his voice and spoke in tones of greatest
						tenderness, "is the hand of Ocalla, the Cherokee Indian queen whose tribe lived beside
						the Savannah river opposite Silver Bluffs. In his wanderings DeSoto appeared upon the
						bluffs one afternoon. Ocalla and her people had never seen a paleface and they thought
						DeSoto and his followers had been sent to  them by the
						Great Spirit, for, in all the traditions of the Red Man, the Great Spirit was a being
						whose body was white as snow and whose soul was as pure as heaven. Ocalla sent her
						runners across the stream to meet and welcome the paleface. Many suns (days) and moons
						(nights) she fed them and furnished them homes. Her people nursed them when they were
						sick and gave them what they needed for their journey onward. When they departed, they
						stole Ocalla and carried her away with them to be the slave of DeSoto and the victim of
						his basest passion. Three long months was she compelled to live a life worse than death.
						One dark, stormy night she attempted to escape but was captured with a long knife in her
						right hand. She was brought before DeSoto still holding the knife, and when he saw her,
						he became furious and said to her: 'You beastly wench. I will see that you never hold
						another knife in that hand,' and, with a terrible oath, he drew his sword and cut off
						her hand and a part of her arm then sent her to her wigwam. She picked up the hand and
						carried it with her and when she was in her tepee she wound strong strips of deer skin
						around her wrist to stop the flow of blood, then, breaking some weeds, she applied the
						juices to the wounded arm to heal it. A few nights afterwards she escaped and made her
						way back to her people, carrying this hand, which she preserved in her own way, and yet,
						the palefaces  wonder why she was their bitter enemy ever
						afterward.
					"I could go on all night telling you of outrages that the palefaces have committed upon
						the Red Man. I could tell you of the seventeen spotless Indian maidens that were stolen
						by the wicked men which Sir Walter Raleigh sent over here, and how these maidens were
						shamefully abused until they died. Yes, and many other such deeds of civilized cruelty
						could I relate, but this is enough."
					"I wonder who are the civilized and who are the savage races of the earth," said Penn,
						with a pained expression.
					Just then the wigwam door opened and a lovely Indian maiden of about eighteen summers
						entered. In one hand she carried a highly polished bow of ebony wood to which was
						attached a string of silver and in the other she held a golden arrow. Penn was struck by
						her appearance and the longer he looked at her the more he desired to know something
						about her. Presently he said: "Who is the maid?"
					"She is my only child," answered Tamina, as she came forward.
					"She is very beautiful," said Penn.
					"All wild roses are beautiful."
					"Her step is light and graceful."
					"What fawn is not so?"
					"Her smile is very sweet."

					

					

						THEIR BITTER ENEMY EVER AFTERWARD."

					

					


					
					"The smile of the morning is always sweet."
					"But there is something peculiarly interesting in her expression."
					"She is the daughter of Tamina."
					"What is her name?"
					"She is The Sunny Eye."
					William Penn was a very careful student of the features of different races of men. He
						scanned the face of the girl, then of her father for some time, then asked frankly, but
						respectfully: "Can it be possible that the blood of the paleface courses through the
						veins of the Great Sachem of the Delawares?"
					Contrary to his habit, the emperor started suddenly then as quickly regained his
						composure and said in a low, serious tone:
					"Let the good brother Onas stand upon the topmost peak of the Alleghenies and look down
						to where the land and the water meet at the great salt sea. Let him cast his eye along
						the shore to where the rolling rivers from the mountains leap into the arms of the great
						ocean and he will distinctly see the line which marks the ending of the sweet waters of
						the river and the beginning of the bitter waters of the sea; but, since the coming of
						the paleface to the New World, none is so wise that he can tell in whose veins the pure
						blood of the Red Man flows. None can tell where the fresh, clean blood of the Red Man
						ends and the dark, polluted blood of the paleface begins."


					

					"Is there no tradition of thy fathers concerning this matter?" asked Penn.
					"Long, long ago," replied Tamina, "a paleface brought his daughter to an island in the
						great bay and, leaving her with her husband went away and never returned. The husband
						died shortly after a girl child was born. The mother and child were found in a starving
						condition by Manteo, chief of the Hatteras Tribe, a branch of the Delawares. Manteo took
						them to the wigwam of his mother, Smiling Sunshine. She was a good woman and was sent to
						earth from the home of the Great Spirit because she loved all men. Through the veins of
						Tamina flows the royal blood of Smiling Sunshine. Manteo married the paleface mother and
						when the child grew up she was married to the yoTungest son of Smiling Sunshine. Upon
						the day of her marriage, she was crowned queen of the Hatteras Indians. This was many,
						many great suns--you call it years--ago, and from her womb came the fathers of Tamina,
						the Great Sachem of the Delawares. These are my truthful words They have gone from me
						and shall not return."
					"'Tis a very pretty legend and I am half inclined to believe it," said Penn, "for, in
						the features of both thyself and daughter I am persuaded I see evidences of the blood of
						the white race. But has thee nothing with which thee can further establish this
						tradition?"

					

					About the girl's neck was a double chain of beads made from seven different colors of
						sea shells, the lower end of which extended beneath the upper edge of the fawn skin
						tunic that covered her bosom. Drawing this forth, Tamina showed the Quaker an old piece
						of gold attached to the end of the chain of beads. One side consisted of a plain,
						polished surface while upon the other, Penn beheld in clear English characters the
						words:

					 
					"This, is said to have been passed from parent to child ever since the day of the
						crowning of the queen of the Hatteras Indians. The words are English. What do they tell
						you ?" asked the chief with a look of inquiry.
					"If the tradition be true," replied Penn, thoughtfully, "they tell me that in the veins
						of the greatest  Indian that ever lived courses the blood
						of the first white child that was born on American soil."
					"As I have told you," replied Tamina, seriously, "none is so wise as to deny what you
						say. The life-current of the paleface from some far distant spring may tinge the veins
						of Tamina but for all that he will never cease to be a loyal and true Red Man."
					"It tells me more," said Penn, holding up the piece of gold and gazing at it with deep
						interest. It tells me that in Tamina are combined the best traits of both the white and
						the red races. He possesses the honesty of purpose, the sincerity of heart, the
						trustful, confiding nature of the best types of the Red Man combined with the charity of
						soul, and the true Christian spirit of the best hearts in the white race. It explains to
						me thy devotion to the arts of peace and thy abhorrence of war except when it is forced
						upon thee. It also explains to me the clearness of thy vision into the future and the
						evident truthfulness of thy prophecy. Accepting the tradition as true, shall not thee
						and I continue to labor for the good of all mankind as long as we live, even though
						everything we hope for does not come to pass?"
					"Will you join me in a pledge to do this?" said the Great Sachem as he rose and
						extended his hand.
					"With all my heart," replied Penn, taking the extended hand.
					"Then meet me at the Great Elm Tree at the  coming of
						tomorrow's sun and the Delawares will treat with their brother," and taking the hand of
						The Sunny Eye, Tamina entered another apartment while Penn returned to the ship.
				

				

				

					CHAPTER XI.

					UNDER THE OLD ELM TREE.

					At the time agreed upon, the Indian emperor and the Quaker governor appeared at the
						great elm tree. Around it were gathered chiefs, sagamores, or sub-chiefs and sanaps, or
						runners from the tribes that had been invited to be present and witness the arrival of
						the palefaces and who, after Tamina's interview with Penn, had been requested to prolong
						their visit and participate in forming the first treaty with the whites.
					Upon the arrival of the two great leaders, all arose to their feet and stood in
						respectful silence until Tamina had seated Penn and assumed his own place beside his
						distinguished guest, when they resumed their places. Many white men were also present,
						among them the stealthy Ford, who recorded the proceedings for Penn, and the beastly,
						brutal Belch, who constantly revolved in his mind some scheme of villainy. Especially
						obnoxious in his sight was the great, the good, the noble Tamina. When all was ready,
						Tamina rose and addressing the assembled councillors, said:
					"My children, this paleface brother and his children 
						have come to us from the land of the rising sun. The Red Man has learned to mistrust his
						paleface brother because of the ingratitude and treachery he has returned for the
						kindness and hospitality we have shown him. This brother comes to us with an open eye
						and a clean heart. No sword appears at his side, no gun in his hand, no knife in his
						belt and no flask of rum in his pocket.
					"His children are hungry. Let my faithful hunters string their strongest bows and
						feather their swiftest arrows and go forth upon the chase to bring them food. His
						children are cold. Let my maidens and mothers prepare for them clothing from the
						choisest skins they have dressed. They have no homes. The Great Spirit has given us land
						in plenty and more, therefore, let us grant unto them lands upon which they may build
						wigwams to shelter their wives and little ones and the Great Spirit will surely reward
						our good works."
					Tamina then took his seat. Penn arose, and, in the soulfull manner which was his by
						nature, looked about him upon that vast assemblage of infantile giants; giants in
						courage, stature and strength, infants in wisdom, in intellect and in knowledge. Then he
						slowly unrolled a sheet of parchment and read his "Proclamation," the following extracts
						from which are here presented. Tamina acted as interpreter.
					"In England, a man who shoots a partridge  may be
						banished from his country. In Pennsylvania partridge shooting shall be free."
					"In England, there is but one creed and one catechism, one prayer, one form of baptism,
						from which no man or woman dare dissent without peril of the whipping post or the
						pillory, in Pennsylvania, all who acknowledge one Almighty and eternal God to be the
						moral governor of the world, and who honor him as such by living honorable and peaceable
						lives, shall be equally protected in their rights and made capable of promotion to
						office."
					"In many of the American colonies, the white settlers are charged with cheating the
						Indians out of their lands and their furs by putting bad merchandise upon them, in
						Pennsylvania all merchandise offered for trade shall be brought into market and exposed
						to public inspection."
					"While in other colonies, the Indians are treated little better than dogs, whom every
						blackguard may kick and cuff to the exceeding diversion of white Christians, in
						Pennsylvania, it is decreed that the persons and rights of the Red Man shall be held
						sacred and that no man, whatever his rank or fortune, shall affront or wrong an Indian
						without incurring the same penalties as if committing the crime against the Proprietor
						himself."
					"While, in most countries settled by Christians of this time, if a Christian be injured
						by a native, he might immediately avenge himself, even to 
						knocking out the brains of the offender, in Pennsylvania, it is decreed that if any
						Indian shall abuse a planter, said planter shall not be his own judge upon the Indian,
						but shall apply to the next magistrate, who shall make complaint thereof to the King,
						concerning the Indian, for reasonable satisfaction for the injury."
					"While other Christian adventurers think they have a right to treat the inhabitants of
						other countries they discover as though they were members of the brute creation, in
						Pennsylvania, it is decreed that an eye of equal tenderness for the Friend or the Indian
						shall be shown and that all differences between Friends and Indians shall be tried by a
						jury of twelve men, six to be chosen from each party so that they may live peaceably
						together as becometh impartial justice and humanity to both."
					"While in England, millions of money are given to the King, lords and clergy, the
						number and wretchedness of the poor is so increased that every year thousands are being
						hung for stealing a morsel of food to keep them from starving, in Pennsylvania, there
						are but two crimes that shall be punishable by death and they are murder and
						treason."
					When Penn ceased speaking every eye was turned toward Tamina. He rose in his place and
						said solemnly and impressively:
					"My children, the Great Spirit has surely sent this brother to us. The paleface nation
						is young.  'It was created but yesterday. The Red Man was
						created more great suns ago than there are leaves upon the trees or pebbles along the
						beach. Their skins have been browned by the icy blasts of untold winters and the
						scorching heat of as many summers. The skin of our brother is white, which shows that
						his race is but a babe. But he is wise. The wisest of the children of men. This paleface
						i,. our brother, indeed, and with him and his people we will make a treaty that shall be
						kept sacred as long as the sun shall shine and as long as the rivers shall flow."
					"As long as the sun shall shine and as long as the rivers shall flow," repeated the
						Indians present.
					"Hear us, Oh, Great Spirit," prayed the chief.
					"Hear us, Oh, Great Spirit," echoed the others.
					Tamina again took his seat.
					Penn now arose, and, stretching forth his hand, said impressively:
					"We meet upon the broad pathway of good faith and good will; no advantage shall be
						taken on either side but all shall be openness and love. I will not call you children,
						for parents sometimes chide their children too severely, nor brothers only, for brothers
						differ. The friendship between me and you I will not compare to, a chain that the rains
						may rust or a falling tree may break. We are the same as if one man's body were to be
						divided into two parts, and the treaty which we will make shall never be sworn to nor
						ever broken."

					

					History records the fact that the terms of the treaty were arranged to the entire
						satisfaction of all concerned and it is well known that it was never violated as long as
						Penn remained in America.

				


				

				

					CHAPTER XII.

					TAMINA.

					

						

							"Immortal Tamina of Indian race,
							Greatest in the field and foremost in the chase.
							No puny saint was he, with fasting pale,
							He climbed the mountain and he leaped the vale.
							Rushed through the torrent with unequalled might,
							Your ancient saint would tremble at the sight.
							Caught the swift boar and swifter deer with ease,
							And wrought a thousand miracles like these.
							To public views he added private ends,
							He loved his country most and next his friends.
							With courage long he strove to ward the blow,
							Courage we all admire, even in a foe.
							And when each effort he, in vain, had tried,
							Kindled the flame in which he bravely died.
							With him let every generous patriot vie,
							To live in freedom and in honor die."

						

					

					During the ensuing winter, the Quaker preacher and the Delaware Sachem spent much time
						together. Penn discovered the interesting fact that the Indians held tenaciously to the
						traditions of their fathers, and, being a true Red Man, Tamina was familiar  with the traditions which taught that the Red Man was the
						first human being ever created, that he came from the land of the setting sun and of the
						cruelty the whites had imposed upon his race, hence, it is not surprising that he clung
						to the belief that he was a descendent from Virginia Dare, not because Virginia Dare was
						a white woman, but because she was the daughter-in-law of the royal Smiling Sunshine.
						Considering that, at the time of which we write, Tamina was in the prime of life, and,
						considering the indelible stamp of certain features and characteristics peculiar to the
						white race, Penn was confident he observed in Tamina, the tradition may have been true;
						at any rate, it is safe to say that this theory of the lineage of this wonderful
						chieftain is as nearly correct as any other yet advanced.
					The character of the man was above reproach. His conduct was exemplary and his soul was
						clean. His ideals were lofty and his intents and purposes honorable. In short he
						comprised the virtues, in a conspicuous degree of the best men of his time to whatever
						race they belonged. He preferred the quiet restfulness of the arts of peace, but when
						roused to battle, his arm fell with destructive power upon his foe. However, he was no
						match for the Mingoes--as his people called the Iroquois--who lived north of him and
						whom the fire-water of the white man had transformed into cruel, blood thirsty
						savages.

					

					In the spring of 1683, Penn entered into a negotiation with Tamina for the purchase of
						certain lands possessed by the latter and of these transactions we, fortunately, have
						historical record. Following are copies of title deeds conveying certain lands from
						Tamina to Penn. They are given iri the exact language and style in which they were
						written more than two hundred years ago. They were copied from the Archives of
						Pennsylvania by the author and establish the identity of Tamina beyond a doubt.

					DEED FROM TAMINA TO WILLIAM PENN IN 1683.

					"I, Tammanen (Tamina), this 23d day of ye 4th month called June, in ye year according
						to ye yeanglish account, 1683, for me and my heirs and assignes doe graunt and dispose
						of all my Lands lying betwixt Pemmapecka and Nessaninehs creeks, and all along
						Nessaninehs creek to William Penn, Propreet'r and Goven'r Pennsilvenia, &c; his
						heirs and assignes for Ever for ye Consideration of so much Wampum, so many guns, shoes,
						stockings, looking glasses, blankets and other goods as he ye s'd William Penn shall
						pleas to give unto me and my parcel being much smaller than Ossepenaikes and Swampees,
						hereby for me, my heirs and assignes renouncing all claims for demand of anything in or
						for ye future from, him, his heirs and assigns in  witness
						whereof I have hereunto set my hand and Seal ye day and year first above written.

					2d-4mo-84

					Received, moreover, all match coats, Stogkings, Shirts and blankets besides Severall
						Guilders in Silver and I have sold all my lands as above.

					Tammanen X Mark
					(Tamina)


					Sealed and delivered in ye presence of

					
						Lassacook
						John Bluston
						Joseph Curteis
					

					Indians present,

					
						Richard
						Shackhuppo
						Meslmequan
					

					Witness
					Crillbertoilleclr
					The Mark of X Tammanen
					(Tamina)

					On the same day the following instrument was executed:
					Ye 23 of ye 4th month, 1683.
					We Tammanen (Tamina) and Metamequam doe hereby acknowledge to have rec'd of William
						Penn Propriet'r and Goven'r of Pennsilvania, &c., these following goods being the
						consideration for our tract of Land Lying between and about Pemneapecker &
						Neshemineh Creeks and all along Neshenineh should and graunted unto ye 3d  William Penn Propriet'r & Goven'r, &c., as by a
						Deed Dated ye 23 of ye 4th month in ye year 1683 doth moreplain appear bearing ye date
						hereof with W'r Wedoehercby hold o'r selves fully contented and satisfied.
					
						5 P Stockings
						20 Barrs Lead
						10 Tobaco Boxes
						6 Coats 2 Guns
						8 Shirts 2 kettles
						12 Awls
					
					
						5 Hatts
						25 lb Powder
						1 Peck Pipes
						38 yds Duffills
						16 Knives
						100 Needles
					
					
						10 Glasses
						5 Capps
						15 Combs
						5 Hoes
						9 Gimblets
						20 Fishhooks
					
					
						10 Tobacco tongs
						10 Pr Sissers
						7 Half Gills
						6 Axes 2 Blankets
						4 Handful Bells
						4 yds Strond Water
						20 Handfuls of Wampum
					

					

					In witness whereof we have hereunto sett o'r hands

					On the same day the following instrument was also executed:

					"We Tammanen (Tamina) and Metamequisn, this 23d day of ye 4th month called June, in ye
						year according to ye English account, 1683 for us our heirs and assignes doe freely
						graunt and dispose of all our Lands Lying between and about PemmaPecka & Neshemineh
						Creeks and all along Nesheminehs Creek to William Penn Proprietary and Goven'r of
						Pensilvania his heirs and assigns for ye consideration of so much Wampum and other goods
						as he, ye s'd William Penn shall be pleased to give unto us, and our parcel being much
						smaller than Esscepenaike Swampees. Hereby us o'r heirs and assignes renouncing all
						Claims or Demands of anything in or for ye Premises for ye future from him his heirs and
						assignes. In witness whereof we have hereunto set o'r hands & seals the day and year
						first above written.

					Sealed and delivered in ye presence of
					
						Lasse Cock
						Philip Th. Lehnmann
						Peter Cook Curteis
						Joseph
					

					

					Indians present,
					
						Kuppape
						Menaney Katemus
						Aphantess Shockhuppo.
					
					The Mark of X Tammanen
					(Tamina)
					The Mark of X Metamequim
					also Richard

					Two days later the following instrument was executed to which the signature of Tamina
						appears as a witness:
					"I Wingeebone this 25th day of 4th month called June, in ye year according to ye
						English account, 1683 for me, my heirs and assignes doe freely graunt and dispose of all
						my lands lying on ye, west side of ye Skolkill River, beginning from ye first falls of
						ye same, all along and upon ye s'd River and Backward of ye same so far as my right
						goeth; to William Penn Propriet'r and Govn'r of Pennsilvania, his heirs and assignes
						forever, for ye consideration of so much Wampum and other things as he shall be pleased
						to give unto me hereby, for me, my heirs and assignes renouncing all claims and demands
						of anything in the future
					In witness whereof I have hereunto sett my hand and seal the day and year first above
						mentioned
					The Mark of X Wingeebone

					

					Signed, sealed and delivered in ye presence of Joseph Curteis

					
						Tammanen (Tamina)
						Wachemen
					

					Indians.

					
						Whehelan
						Metchpakan
						Kupaukque
					

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XIII.

					THE CAVE OF THE EVIL SPIRIT.

					During the conferences that had taken place between Penn and the Indians, relative to
						treaties and land, Ford was usually present as it was his duty to record all such
						transactions. So skillfully had he managed his affairs since the eventful meeting in the
						streets of London, that he still held the confidence of Penn in the fullest measure. He
						had joined Penn's expedition for the sole purpose of growing rich. Gold was his only God
						and the one object of his life was to acquire it. He reckoned rightly that he who was
						laden with gold could shine as the equal of anyone who trod the velvet carpets of the
						court of the reckless reigning sovereign of England.
					Belch, who from the time the good ship "Wecome" touched the American shore, had shown a
						fondness for the society of the basest element of both the red and the white races, was
						inspired by other motives. As he has already informed the reader, his hand was against
						every man, hence, he had come to America for the purpose of revelling in scenes of
						torture, bloodshed, cruelty and  debauchery, more dark and
						dreadful, if possible, than he had known in England.
					Since their arrival in America, the conspirators had met each other as often as
						discretion would allow and had consulted upon matters of common interest to both. Each
						had grasped the opportunity presented but as yet neither had evolved any scheme of far
						reaching interest. Ford was extremely cautious for he knew that his career would end at
						once if Penn discovered his treachery. Belch seemed so careless of all about him that
						Ford felt called upon to remonstrate with him at times but he would only look wise and
						say: "Never mind, there is a good time coming for me yet." Bingoo had followed in the
						footsteps of Belch as constantly as the most faithful dog could have done, never having
						shown a desire to visit his Great Sachem. Ford had so successfully practiced the white
						man's art of cheating the Indians out of great quantities of valuable lands and furs
						that he was, indeed, growing rich.
					Latterly, Belch had become identified with some scheme far up the Delaware River but as
						yet, he had declined to reveal its nature to his friend.
					The springtime of the year 1684 was rapidly approaching. The latter part of the month
						of March was at hand. It was the storm period of the vernal equinox. For three days the
						winds had roared in the mountains, the furious waters had lashed the  helpless shores in their pitiless rage and the sheets of
						driven snow had totally obliterated the trails in the forest and blinded the eyes of
						both hunter and game. So intensely dark were the nights that the earth seemed wrapped in
						a great cloak of desolution.
					After nightfall on one of those most terrible days, Ford and Belch stole silently to
						the river, unfastened a boat from its moorings and darted away in the darkness. They had
						been observed, however, for Bingoo was on their trail and when he had seen them pull
						towards the north, he grunted and said: "They go to the cave of the Evil Spirit, Bingoo
						go to Tamina."
					On, on the two conspirators pulled up the Delaware until they arrived opposite a high
						bluff situated on the west side of the river. Here they fastened the boat and Belch
						leaped ashore with ease. With an awkward scramble Ford followed and the two crept
						cautiously through the bushes and up the side of the hill until they reached the mouth
						of a cave. Suddenly Belch stopped.
					"Why don't you go on?" said Ford.
					"Hst," replied the other in a whisper, "this is the cave of the Evil Spirit. Once
						inside we are safe. Crouch low and follow me."
					Shivering with cold, Ford crawled on and soon the two reached the inside of the great
						cavern.
					This cave was known to the natives as the home  of
						Mitsh-she-man-i-tou, the Evil Spirit, who came down from the mountain side at irregular
						intervals and who had devoured many good Red Men for they had been seen to go that way
						and had never returned.
					"Now we are safe, thanks to the superstitions of the savages," said Belch. "Let us have
						a little fire. I covered these embers up when I left here last night, in anticipation of
						this visit. Ugh! It is a dreadful night. Throw on some of those sticks. How you shiver,
						are you cold?"
					"Yes," said Ford, gazing about him. "See the light flare up and send a thousand shadowy
						demons into the darkness. Say, Belch, has anyone ever explored this place?"
					"No, what's the use?"
					"Let's go back into that dark passageway a few steps. Come, I am curious to know more
						about the place."
					"Well, if go you must, then lead on, we are wasting valuable time."
					"We will not go far. Listen, I hear the rush of water."
					"A very common sound in caves."
					"Hold your torch a little higher, Belch. Be careful where you step. Ah, here we are, at
						the edge of an underground cataract. How it dashes itself to pieces against the rocks. I
						could almost leap across it. Hold your torch close to mine.  There, that makes more light and sends the rays farther into the darkness. A
						wonderful place is this and properly named. Let us go back to the fire, I am freezing
						with the cold."
					"Well, I am really glad something has brought your senses to you. Your courage and your
						cupidity fill equal measures. You imagine you are in a veritable treasure house and you
						would brave any danger to secure a little more gold upon which to fasten your greedy
						fingers. Sit down here, I have something to say to you."
					They seated themselves by the fire. Belch leaned close to his companion, placed his
						hand upon the latter's knee and said:
					"You know you hate that greasy savage Tamina as badly as I do, but you refuse to aid my
						efforts to end his existence, giving as a flimsy excuse the disapproval of your
						conscience, when the truth is, the only reason you do not wish him out of the way is
						because at present his death would add nothing to your store of filthy lucre."
					"You have the thought exactly," said Ford blandly.
					"Then, there is your precious master, William Penn, who is insane on the subject of
						conscience. His conscience tells him that these filthy creatures are human beings and
						have souls. Nothing is farther from the truth. He has set the hands back on the dial of
						progress a hundred years by his  nonsensical doctrine of
						the equality of man. He has put forth a code of laws declaring that the savage shall be
						accorded equal honor with civilized people. These laws are being violated every day, for
						it is a fact that these bushes, these mountains and these caves are haunted with white
						men who are in revolt against his tyranny."
					So vehement had he become during this tirade, that he had risen to his feet and was
						swinging his arms about in the most violent manner, all the time talking at the top of
						his voice. Now he closed his brawny fist into a sinewy hammer and shook it in front of
						Ford's eyes as he went on savagely:
					"Penn prates about the hand of God being in his work. This is not a dinner party of
						deities, it is a death dance of devils. White devils and red devils are in at the
						fandango and the fun will go on entil there are no more red devils to participate in it.
							I tell you, John Ford, this is a white man's country.. Destiny has
							decreed that the white man shall rule the whole earth and that the Indian must be
							destroyed."
					"But why destroy the Indian--" Ford began, but he got no farther, for at that moment a
						loud splash was heard in the roaring waters behind them.
					"Hark, what was that?" asked Ford, in alarm.
					Each seized a firebrand and hurried to the side of the cataract. Only the sound of the
						rush of angry waters greeted their ears.

					

					"'Twas but a stone that fell from the roof of the cavern," said Belch, "it often
						happens. There it is, I think, for I do not remember seeing the waters swirling about at
						that point when we were here before."
					"What if that dark chamber over there should contain priceless treasures," said Ford.
						"To brave the danger of a leap across the chasm would be something, but to secure an
						untold amount of wealth afterward would be ample compensation for the risk. I wonder if
						there is no other entrance to this place."
					"How do I know," replied the other, sullenly.
					"Suppose you try to leap across the stream,' suggested Ford.
					"Try it yourself, you fool," was the reply.
					Just then a roaring sound, as of the passing of a hurricane reached their ears.
					"What is it ?" asked Ford, with breathless anxiety.
					"It is the voice of the Evil Spirit which frightens the red skins to death. It is
						caused by a rushing wave of wind that comes from somewhere and goes somewhere," said
						Belch, with a laugh.
					"What makes you think this?"
					For answer, Belch tossed the firebrand he held across the stream. It was instantly
						seized by the current of air from above and carried with lightning  swiftness back into the unexplored regions of the cave.
					"I don't like that a bit," said Ford warily.
					"'Tis nothing but a current of wind."
					"But it indicates an opening above us and another back there in the darkness."
					"What of it?"
					"It is well for us to be safe from all intrusion," said Ford, cautiously.
					"There is no danger of intrusion. Come let us go back to the fire," was the reply.
					When they were seated, Ford began: "You are a strong sermonizer, Belch. When you
						brought me to this place, I understood that I was to be consulted about some matter of
						great importance, not to be preached at. I tell you, you are too impatient by far."
					"Too impatient, eh? We have been in this wilderness for almost two years and what have
						we accomplished?"
					"A great deal, I am sure, considering the conditions that surround us. You must not
						forget that I have been hampered in my efforts. Penn has spent about half of his time
						with Tamina and I have bad to tag at his heels like a cur dog. I have not been idle by
						any means. I have kept my eyes and ears open and from what I have heard, I have reason
						to believe that Tamina has vast riches concealed in this cave."
					"Well, suppose he has?"

					

					"We must capture him and torture him into revealing its whereabouts," said Ford,
						eagerly.
					"Ha, ha, say Ford, you have never tried torturing an Indian into revealing a secret,
						have you? No, not you. If you think you can wring a secret from the lips of Tamina by
						physical torture, you reckon without your host. You could not do so in a thousand years,
						so take my advice and don't try it. Let us talk of the business in hand."
					"Well, what is it?"
					"Nothing less in its final consequences than the total destruction of Tamina and all
						his incestuous brood, for I repeat it, the Indian must die," said Belch, viciously.
					"To resume the thread of thought that was broken by that little interruption," went on
						Ford, mildly, "you know that in our civilization there is nothing so strong as wealth,
						and wealth can only be procured by the hand of labor. Why not enslave these hordes of
						miserable wretches? I have no greater love for them than you have, but you propose to
						turn their carcasses up for the vultures to eat and I propose to transform them into
						beasts of burden, into human machines for coining money, for creating wealth, just as
						the blacks are,"
					"You know not whereof you speak. While you have been sitting on your stool in the
						office of William Penn, I have been piloting smugglers up the Delaware and down the
						Susquehanna. I have  slept in the shacks of outlawed white
						bandits in the fastnesses of the mountains and have consorted with unscrupulous traders
						from the Great Lakes to the Chesapeake and Delaware bays. I have penetrated the heart of
						the land of the warlike Iroquois, among whom I am known as 'the Long Knife with a
						thousand feet,' for I am apparently everywhere at once. During all this time I have
						studied the character of the Indian and of one thing I am convinced and that is that you
						can never make him a slave. This very fact proves him to be superior to the black race.
						The black man will writhe and groan beneath the lash of his white master and when the
						last stroke falls upon his back, he will go forth and do the bidding of the hand that
						smites him. This, the Indian will never do, hence, there is but one way to dispose of
						him and that is to help him exterminate himself, and incidentally, to do a little
						exterminating ourselves."
					"Help him exterminate himself? You talk in riddles," said Ford.
					"No riddle about it," replied Belch, with a smile. "The white race in England is
						constantly trying to destroy itself and, were it not for its rapid propagation, it would
						certainly do so. Men who call themselves civilized Christians fly at one another's
						throats and tear one another limb from limb about politics, religion and love. Is the
						Indian any better? Moreover, when the white man came to 
						America, he brought with him a weapon far more destructive to the Indian race than
						powder or ball." "And what is that?"
					"Well filled demijohns of red-eyed rum. Why, when Tamina addressed the great council of
						the Delawares in the Wyoming valley last October, he declared that the fire water that
						flowed from the Dragon Spring of the white man, was destroying more Indians than all the
						wars and famines and epidemics of disease that they have ever known, and he warned them
						that unless they spurned this poisonous enemy, the whole race was doomed to
						destruction," said Belch, earnestly.
					"Were you at that meeting ?" asked Ford.
					"Indeed I was, as were many others of my race." "What effect did his advice have upon
						his people?" inquired Ford, with interest.
					"About the same effect that like advice from the Arch Bishop of Canterbury would have
						upon his bibulous followers. They listened respectfully but the darkness of the night
						had not fallen over that camp two hours before the whites in attendance had about a
						hundred Iroquois warriors up the valley filled with rum who becoming insane attacked the
						whole council."
					"With what result?"
					"Not one of them escaped alive and that brings me directly to the specific information
						I desire to impart to you at this time, as a courtier would say."
					"Well, what is it?" inquired Ford.

					

					"The whole confederacy of the Iroquois--the Delawares call them Mingoes--urged on by
						the whites, has sworn bloody vengeance against Tamina and all his people. They have
						declared war and are only waiting for Penn to return to England when they will come down
						through these mountains and valleys in swarms. In the meantime, you are to keep on
						secretly stirring up the hatred of the Delawares on the outskirts, against the Mingoes,
						until the nation will demand war against their northern enemy. Tamina will be drawn into
						the struggle in spite of his puerile pretensions to a preference for peace. Then will be
						our time to strike death to the hearts of the Delawares, and secure for you the treasure
						you so much covet," said Belch, viciously.
					"How can that be done?" inquired Ford, quickly.
					"The Indian cares not for his life but there is always something that he holds much
						dearer. With Tamina, it is--"
					"What?" asked Ford, grasping the arm of the other.
					"His daughter."
					"Do you mean to say--"
					"That we will steal from Tamina a treasure which is worth more to him than a mountain
						of gold and hold her until he reveals to us the hiding place of his wealth."

					

					"You may rest assured I am in full accord with whatever will add to my meager store of
						earthly possessions," said Ford, "though I am frank to state that I have no desire to
						expose my precious anatomy to the tip of a poisoned arrow, much as I love William Penn
						and his red foster children. My consuming ambition is to amass for myself a competence
						while here, then return to England and shine at the court of my most gracious sovereign;
						but what further part am I to play in this tragedy?"
					"You are to keep your eyes open and ascertain when Penn will return to England. You
						might hint to him that it were well for you to remain here and spread his doctrine of
						the necessity of right living and the equality of man. When he is gone, I will go forth
						in my Quaker garb among the people of the north which will be the signal for the white
						traders and fillibusters to stir up the bloody knives and then the fun goes merrily
						on."
					"Belch, your faculty for intrigue would have placed you at the head of Temple Bar or
						the Privy Council if you had. cultivated it earlier in life, but be not over impatient.
						Matters in England have shaped themselves so that Penn finds it necessary to return to
						that country in August of this year."
					"Then all the Plutonic demons be praised, how long can you keep him away?"
					"It is not our intention that he shall return to this country at all if it can be
						prevented," said Ford.

					

					"Can he not be persuaded to leave you in charge of affairs here?"
					"Such is my desire, but come, let us get out of here and back to the settlement, or day
						will break upon us."
					Ford started out of the cave, and as he neared the exit, looked upward. At that. moment
						Belch gave the embers a vindictive farewell kick and for an instant, the light flared up
						brilliantly, illuminating the whole place. Ford's keen eye caught an inscription over
						the entrance and he said quickly:
					"Ho, Ho, just as I expected. The cave of the Evil Spirit, eh? Indians are afraid to
						enter it. All but one and he is the Evil Spirit. Stir up that fire and I will show you
						his name."
					Belch did as he was requested and came quickly forward. Pointing to a spot high above
						the opening in the rock, Ford said, as he clutched the arm of the other:
					"There is the name of the Evil Spirit that haunts this place."
					Belch looked up and beheld, cut in clear, distinct characters in the stone wall the
						word:

					TAMINA.

					"Now," said Ford, with the greatest excitement, "who says this is not the treasure
						house of the Great Sachem of the Delawares? At another time, we will  bring him here, and compel him to reveal to us the place
						where he hides his wealth or we will toss him into that stream," and the two
						conspirators passed out.
				

				

				

					CHAPTER XIV.

					CAMPING ON THE TRAIL.

					When the boat which carried Ford and Belch up the Delaware river had disappeared in the
						darkness, Bingoo turned and vanished among the bushes. Later he appeared at the wigwam
						of the Great Sachem, Tamina. His mind was clear now, for a time. In spite of his
						cat-like tread, the watchful warriors who guarded the great emperor heard his foot
						steps, and waited until he was near enough, when they sprang up and securely fastened
						his hands behind him, as one of them said, "a paleface."
					Forthwith a dim light was brought and when they saw the strangely distorted figure,
						they leaped aside and exclaimed in terror, "The Dark Mind."
					Such was the name the Indians had given Bingoo from the day of his arrival from
						England.
					"Go away, Dark Mind, go away," said they.
					"I must see the Great Sachem, Tamina," he answered, in clear English.
					"The Dark Mind is a paleface. He look one way and walk another. Drive him to the cave
						of the Evil Spirit."
					One of the warriors, an impetuous youth, rushed  to the
						entrance of the royal wigwam and informed Tamina of the presence of the visitor. The
						great chieftain approached, and when he saw the figure before him, he said in tones of
						motherly tenderness: "Bingoo."
					The latter prostrated himself before his chief. Taking the unfortunate victim of
						Seventeenth Century civilization by the hand, Tamina led him away. When they were inside
						the wigwam, the chief seated his brother and gazed earnestly, silently into his eyes for
						some time, then said in clear English: "Has the paleface murdered my brother's
						mind?"
					"Not all of it, but they have murdered his body."
					"Well said, Bingoo, for the Great Spirit never gave such a body as that to a Red Man,
						and when the paleface made it so, he murdered it; but tell me, are you really a Dark
						Mind ?"
					"Sometimes, sometimes not. I am a bright mind now."
					"You have been away from me many suns (days) and moons (nights), what have you
						learned?"
					"I have learned how to deceive my brother. I never knew it before. I have learned
						to--to--Indians call it lie--white man call it--to be
							shrewd."
					"What else have you learned?"
					"I have learned that the paleface nation is a white wolf. It pursues everything that is
						weaker than itself, and devours it, then turns and feasts upon its own kind."

					

					"Surely they would do no harm to such as Onas," said Tamina, pathetically.
					"As the hawk picks out the eyes of the nestling of the dove, so will the paleface whom
						Onas has trusted, seek to destroy him," replied the other, with much feeling.
					"Have they no Great Spirit?"
					"To be sure they have."
					"What is it ?"
					"Gold."
					"I fear my brother's mind deceives him at times."
					"Never was my Great Sachem more mistaken," answered Bingoo, without a tremor in his
						voice.
					"Onas tells us," said Tamina, "that God is the Father of all and that all men are
						brothers."
					"This the great Onas and many other palefaces truly believe, and if the whole race were
						such as they we could believe them, but they are not."
					"And where do they get their great power?"
					"From their speaking books. Everything they do is marked down on paper. Many of these
						papers are fastened together. This they call a book and they keep it, so that they may
						tell what happened hundreds of great suns (years) ago."
					"Did you learn anything else while you were away?"
					"I learned that the Red Man is doomed to die."
					"But why do they so much desire to destroy the Red Man? Why do they not destroy the
						black man?

					

					I have seen a few black men which they have brought here, and they are as inferior to
						the red race as a mink is to a moose."
					"Now, you have reached the spot where the poisoned arrow flies. The black man is the
						white man's willing slave. As the branches of the birch lash the sides of the mountain
						in a hurricane, so do the whips of the paleface lash the body of the black man, yet he
						never turns against his cruel persecutors, but will toil on for him until he drops
						dead," said Bingoo, earnestly.
					"Is there no way in which the Red Man may live at peace in the land of his paleface
						brother?" asked Tamina, seriously.
					"There is a way," replied the other, "just one way."
					"And how is that?" inquired Tamina.
					"By being his cowering slave as the black man is now."
					The keen eye of the Great Sachem of the Delawares flashed with a glow that pierced the
						surrounding gloom as the lightning pierces the darkest clouds, as he said
						impressively:
					"Bingoo, the Red Man will feed the paleface when he is hungry; he will clothe him when
						he is naked; he will warm him when he is cold, but the sun will hide its face in the
						rocks and mountains at noonday before the Red Man will ever become the slave of any race
						on earth. Now, mark my words,  my son. Lean a little
						closer," and his voice was fearfully low as he said: "If the paleface tries to enslave
						the Red Man who so kindly welcomed him to his bosom when he had no home, no friends, no
						food, no clothes, the Great Spirit will surely deal with him as he deserves. These are
						my truthful words. They have gone from me and shall not return."
					He sat for a few moments in solemn silence, then went on, softly: "I am glad there are
						no such wicked palefaces as those among the children of the great Onas."
					"I wish it were true as the Great Tamina believes, that no wicked palefaces were here,
						but there is one I know, and another whom I believe to be already plotting the
						destruction of the Delawares," said Bingoo, quietly.
					"And who are they ?" asked Tamina, quickly. "They are the panther and the bear, and
						their names are Ford and Belch."
					"Why, Bingoo, Ford is the trusted servant of Penn."
					"And for that reason, he is all the more dangerous, I fear, though I have never seen
						him do anything wrong."
					"Then why do you suspect him?"
					"He hears many secrets when he sits beside Penn and listens to Tamina talk."
					"No, Bingoo, the secrets of the Delawares, no  paleface
						knows. I like this man none the best myself, but the great and good Onas has chosen him
						as his advisor, and surely he would not betray such a noble creature. I fear me that my
						faithful Sagamore has become discouraged at what he has seen in England," said Tamina,
						with a voice of pity.
					"Their cruelties have turned the heart of Bingoo to stone," was the reply.
					"Bingoo should forgive. Onas tells me the Great Spirit sent his son to the earth to
						save palefaces--" "And they hung him to a tree," interrupted Bingoo.
					"They have been cruel to both Onas and Tamina, and if we can forgive, cannot my
						faithful son also forgive?"
					The Sagamore was silent for some time. Presently he spoke in tones most respectful and
						said: "Tell me, Great Sachem, what is it that supports such men as Tamina and Penn in
						the face of such bitter persecution?"
					"It is our unfailing belief that the time will come when Freedom, Friendship, Charity
						and Truth will live in the hearts of all men. It may be many hundred great suns (years)
						before it does come, but Tamina is as certain in his own mind that it will come, as he
						is that von broad river will flow beside our camp tomorrow as it does to-day."
					Again Bingoo lapsed into silence for a few moments, then, leaping suddenly to his feet,
						he peered  cautiously about him and said in a whisper:
						"Bingoo almost forgot why he came. In the presence of Tamina he is as nothing. He came
						to tell you that he saw Ford and Belch go toward the north star as fast as their oars
						could pull them."
					"Where think you they were going?"
					"To the cave of the Evil Spirit."
					"And for what ?" inquired Tamina, with much concern.
					"To plot against the Delawares."
					"Why think you this?"
					"Because in the darkness of the night I have tracked Belch to the Dismal Forest where
						the wildest of the Mingoo beasts wallow."
					"Have you ever seen Ford with him there?"
					"I have not."
					"May he not be trying to persuade the other to forsake the evil way of his going?"
					"Why go to that dreadful cave to do it?" was the answer.
					"Does Bingoo know they have now gone to the cave of the Evil Spirit?"
					"He only thinks so."
					"He can easily learn."
					"How?"
					"Follow them and listen."
					"Ugh! The Evil Spirit must be already there on such a dreadful night as this," said the
						other with a shudder.
					"Does the Sagamore fear it?"

					

					"All Red Men fear it except Tamina--he fears nothing," said Bingoo, respectfully. "He
						has many times terrified its roaring voice into silence; but Bingoo is ready to obey his
						chief at once."
					He listened attentively while the Sachem instructed him how to reach the secret
						entrance to the cave. This he did with great difficulty, then lay flat upon the
						snow-covered ground and extended his hand. It met only resistless darkness which told
						him he was at the proper place. Bending his ear intently he recognized the coarse voice
						of Belch and could distinctly hear all he said. The voice of Ford was feminine in tone
						and did not clearly penetrate the sound of the rushing waters below. The Indian leaned a
						little farther out in order to hear all that was said. He heard the words: "But why
						destroy the Indians--?" and no more. He had made an error in calculating the firmness of
						the rock beneath him and, just as Ford had spoken the words mentioned, the ledge gave
						way, when, stone and Indian went plunging into the stream below, causing the splash
						which aroused the conspirators in the cave and caused them to hurry to the side of the
						stream.
					The stone was there, as Belch had noted, but where was the body of Bingoo? No sooner
						had he struck the mad, rushing tide than he was swept beneath the rock, apparently to
						certain death. Ten seconds later he was thrown out into the river. He was as a fish in
						the water, and after spitting and  sputtering for a time,
						he came to himself and began to swim. Three strokes told him that he was going toward
						the middle of the stream, for the resistance of the water became greater. He also
						discovered that the stream that brought him from the cave was running in the same
						direction in which he swam. Coming from beneath the earth's surface, it was much warmer
						than thewaters of the Delaware which were now running mush ice. He turned at once and
						struck for the shore, and in a little while touched a canoe with his hand. One vault
						landed him inside. He groped about for the two paddles, but found four. Then he knew he
						was in the canoe which belonged to the white men. His first thought was to escape in it,
						but he remembered that he came in his own canoe, which everybody knew by its peculiar
						construction, and, to abandon it, meant certain discovery. But where was it--above or
						below him? He could not see, and for a moment was dazed, then he remembered that he had
						fastened it below the stream that came from under the hill. He dropped silently into the
						water, swam away a short distance and found it. It required but a moment for him to
						loose and launch it. He felt himself turning into a lump of ice. His clothing was
						saturated with water, every drop of which was freezing into a solid coat of mail. He
						must pull for his life. One stroke shot the canoe far out into the river. Then came a
						struggle between human endurance and the fury of the 
						giant storm king. Colder, colder grew his limbs, yet he pulled steadily onward.
						Gradually he felt a numbness begin to creep over him, and he knew what it meant. His
						blood was ceasing to flow, he was freezing to death. He felt the light going out of his
						life, but he uttered not a murmur and pulled only the harder. By and by he noticed that
						the clothing on his arms appeared to grow damp, and he knew the ice in it was melting.
						He redoubled his efforts. He felt the drops of water trickle down his side. His lower
						limbs and his feet became wet and he knew that the hot breath of the red blood of the
						Indian was loosing the hold of the icy arms of the monster king of the north. Finally
						something told him he had gone far enough, and he turned the head of the canoe toward
						the shore and landed.
					Three minutes later he was in the presence of Tamina relating what he had heard and
						what had happened to him.
					"Bingoo swims like a fish," said Tamina, after he had dressed his Sagamore with warm,
						dry clothing. "Does he now believe that Ford is true to the great Onas?"
					"It seems to be so," said the other, reflectively. I am sorry if I have unjustly
						accused my brother." How many ships have been wrecked in the waters which "seem to be"
						placid and smooth?
					Bingoo rose to go. Tamina took his hand and said: "Let my Sagamore watch the movements
						of the palefaces, and, as the fall of the leaf in October 
						

							"HE MOVED AMONG THEM LIKE AN ANGEL."

						
						
						 let his footfall be as he comes to tell his Great Sachem
						of all he has seen or heard. Good night."
					Scarcely had the figure of the Sagamore disappeared in the darkness, ere the Great
						Sachem, taking his snowy plumed staff and white feathered arrow, left the wigwam by
						another door. He must look after the sick and the afflicted, as was his daily custom.
						The unexpected visit of Bingoo in the early portion of the night had prevented his doing
						so, but now long after the hoot owl had called the hour of midnight, he moved like a
						comforting angel among the unfortunate of his people. Here he found a brave warrior
						(lying from the effects of a poisoned arrow which had been sent into his left arm, and
						from the bow of a Mingo who had been crazed with the fire water of the paleface; there,
						he found another, whose face had been fearfully pitted by that awful paleface legacy to
						the red race, the smallpox. Yonder lay a young Indian girl who had dashed her horse into
						the chilling waters of the Schuylkill to save the life of a drowning white girl and was
						now fast losing her own life from pneumonia. A little farther on, he found a boy who had
						been thrown from his pony while engaged in the childish sports of the camp.
					Thus he passed from one to another in his rounds. To each of the sufferers he spoke a
						word of encot ragement. So sincere was his interest in their welfare, and so gentle was
						his manner among them, that they all loved him most dearly.


					

					When he reached his own wigwam, he noticed that the storm had passed by and the wind
						had lulled. The first gleam of the eye of day had pierced the pall of night and when he
						looked up, he saw that the sky was clear. He stood upon the high bluff that overlooked
						the river and watched the sun as it rose above the distant hills. Then, spreading out
						his open palms to the king of day, he said, pathetically:
					"Oh, Great Sun, that has so often kissed the swarthy brow of the warriors and the soft
						cheek of the maidens of the forest, the time is coming, and it is not far away when, as
						you rise up out of the sea you will behold only features that are pale and eyes that are
						blinded by your brilliant smile. Where the red chief now arms his warriors to go forth
						and repel the invader, the white chief will arm his warriors to go forth and seek other
						worlds to conquer; and upon the graves of the red race will be built a civilization
						which I hope and trust will prove to all mankind what it now pretends to believe, that
						God is the Father of all, and that all men are brothers. The trail of Tamina is soon to
						end; the stream of his life to run dry. His secrets he will confide only to you, Oh,
						Great Sun. Kiss the upturned cheek and the outspread palms of your feeble child for
						sometime, ere long, you will set beyond yon mountain fringe, and when you come again,
						Tamina will be no more." He turned and entered his wigwam as a great man goes to his
						death.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XV.

					PENN'S LAST VISIT TO TAMINA.

					The springtime of the year 1684, which crime and went in southeastern Pennsylvania, saw
						much progress in the settlement of that region. Many people flocked to the standard of
						the man who boldly emblazoned upon his banner as his motto, "The necessity of right
						living and the equality of man." His recruits were mainly from the middle classes,
						although, a firm determination to adhere to the truth as recorded in history, compels us
						to admit that intellectual men of sinister motives were not wanting, of whom Ford may be
						said to have been a fair type, nor were the baser strata of human society without
						representation, as may be seen in the character of Belch. The element that possessed a
						conscience void of offense constantly strove to uplift mankind, while the evil sort as
						persistently sought to drag him down.
					'The evil influences which were brought to bear upon William Penn's trusted agents and
						which caused them to betray the confidence he had so implicitly reposed in them, were a
						part of the civilization of the times, and the perpetrators of the wrongs  which crushed his great heart and hurried him to his grave,
						would not have hesitated to put him to physical torture if by so doing they had been led
						to believe that they could gain the favor of the ruling power. Mlen are different now
						because conditions are different.
					When the summer time came, Penn found that it would be necessary for him to return to
						England to protect his property rights. He was not unconscious of the fact that upon the
						frontiers of his colonly certain white men were constantly engaged in the wholesale
						robbery and corruption of the Indians, yet in a general way, there was a good feeling
						existing between the settlers and the Delawares, chiefly due to the influence of Tamina,
						and himself. He had also found that there was one whom he could always trust. This was
						the Great Sachem of the Delawares. Upon the afternoon previous to the day upon which he
						was to depart for England, Penn paid his last visit to the illustrious Delaware chief.
						Tamina awaited his coming, having seen his boat ascending the river. Grasping the hand
						of the visitor, the Great Sachem led him to a tree whose friendly boughs furnished a
						pleasing shelter from the rays of the summer sun, and invited him to be seated upon the
						ground.
					"Did my brother expect me?" asked Penn.
					"He did," was the pleasant reply.

					

					"Did some fluttering bird bring the tidings of my coming ?"
					"The eye of Tamina knew your canoe."
					"Is he glad to see me?"
					"He is always glad to welcome the great Onas to the freedom of his wigwam."
					This compliment was not lost on the appreciative Penn, who replied pleasantly: "The
						flame of freedom is sometimes smothered by the waters of selfishness."
					"The frosts of winter blast the flowers on the mountain, but the warm, spring rains
						bring them forth again. The children of the forest will pass away before the march of
						the paleface nation, but Freedom will sometime fill the whole earth." "Does the Great
						Sachem believe this?"
					"In the stillness of the night there is a silent voice which tells Tamina that sometime
						a great free white nation shall fill the New World."
					"Does not the great heart of Tamina burn with anger and hatred at the thought?"
					"Tamina knows no such word as hatred. He loves all the children of the Great Spirit.
						Tamina can suffer when it is his lot, and he can fight when it is his duty, but hatred
						finds no place in his heart."
					"I would to God that I could say as much of all white men," said Penn.
					"And Tamina's heart grows sick when he knows that he cannot say it of all his own
						race," assented the chief.

					

					"Will not the heart of Tamina grow weary when he sees so much wickedness among
						men?"
					"Shall the tall oak that is full of life, fall before the fires in the forest because
						the flames destroy the trees that are' dead?"
					"The sun is sometimes hidden by a dark threatening cloud. Let my brother not forget
						that the sun of Charity is sometimes hidden behind a cloud of jealousy and avarice."
					"The sun that sets behind the clouds tonight, will rise in a clear sky tomorrow, and,
						although riches and power and position may harden the hearts and close the hands of some
						of the children of men in the great nation, which I see in the future, yet the whole
						human family will be brothers, in deed and in truth. When the poison of selfishness
						shall destroy a tree in the forest of life, the sunlight of brotherly love shall cause
						another to spring up and take its place," said Tamina.
					"Great Sachem of the Delawares," said Penn, as he took the hand of Tamina, "Thy
						paleface brother, Onas, came across the great salt sea to be a teacher of his brother,
						and to-day he stands a child in the presence of one who teaches him truths he never knew
						before."
					"And now," continued Penn, "I must make known the purpose of my visit. I have come to
						bid thee I fear, a long farewell. My affairs in England need my attention, and I must
						leave thee."

					

					"A cloud comes over the sun, and the heart of Tamina is sad," replied the chief.
					"Not more so than the heart of William Penn," said the latter, for I would fain remain
						here among the simple hearted folk who so implicitly trust me, and whom I have learned
						to so much love."
					"When does my brother Onas go?"
					"The ship awaits me now. This is the last setting sun that shall see me here. I leave
						tomorrow, but before I go I have come to entrust to thy keeping the most precious
						treasure I have ever possessed."
					"And what is it?" asked Tamina.
					"It is the treaty entered into by myself and the Red Men at the Great Elm Tree. Will
						thee safely guard it from all harm during my absence?"
					"Tamina will defend it with his life," was the reply.
					Penn handed the treaty to Tamina, the two clasped hands in sacred compact, then the
						proprietor turned and went away.
					The next day the good ship sailed away, and in all the multitude that watched its
						departure there was not a heart more sad than that which beat in the breast of the Great
						Sachem of the Delawares.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XVI.

					THE BEGINNING OF THE END.

					Shortly after Penn left the colony, Ford began more openly to conspire to overthrow the
						Great Sachem of the Delawares. He kept a constant eye upon the chief or bribed some
						other equally unscrupulous rogue to do so. On the night following Penn's departure,
						Tamina's canoe left its place among the bushes that skirted the Delaware and shot
						swiftly to the northward. It was followed at a safe distance by another boat in which
						John Ford was seated. The latter chuckled as he reasoned that the Great Sachem was going
						to the cave to gloat over his wealth. He even dreamed of coming upon the chief just at
						the time when he could see the entire amount of the vast treasure he imagined the Indian
						possessed. Tamina landed at the base of the cliff, and, like a deer, sprang through the
						bushes and disappeared in the cavern. Ford followed as rapidly as possible, but could
						not keep in sight of the chief. He entered the cave. Not a sound was to be heard. He
						struck a flint and in a little while, the low, flickering flames of a torch threw a dim
						light about him.


					

					"Ah, ha, so he is here," he chuckled, as he saw the tracks on the stones, made by the
						damp moccasins of the Sachem. Stealthily he followed. The tracks led him to the brink of
						the cataract. What, had Tamina dicovered that he was pursued and leaped into the rapids?
						His whole frame trembled so violently that he dropped the torch into the stream. All was
						darkness and silence. He sat down on the stone floor and listened. Upon his ear fell
						distinct sounds at regular intervals. They resembled the strokes of a stone hatchet upon
						a hard substance. They came from the invisible depths of the awful gloom beyond the
						stream. Then he knew that Tamina had not leaped into the stream, but across it. How did
						he do this ? What was Tamina doing? Pick, pick, pick, came the sound as regularly as the
						beating of a heart. Ford pondered a long time, then said to himself: "I have it. He is
						cutting out a new chamber in which to store treasures he has lately received from Penn.
						Very good; I have tracked him to his treasure house and in my own good time I will be
						possessor of all that is now his." Slowly he crept back to his boat and made his way
						home.
					One night, sometime afterward, Ford, Belch and Bingoo boarded a canoe and pulled up the
						Delaware. For two nights and two days Bingoo tugged away at the oars. When the third
						morning came, they landed in the Dismal Forest of the Iroquois, or Mingoes, as the
						Delawares called them. They stepped  ashore at a gloomy
						spot and were met by a white man who assigned them to a cabin. Bingoo stretched himself
						at full length upon the ground outside, and totally exhausted, fell asleep.
					When night came on, a company of other white men gathered in the principal hut of the
						retreat. Their characters were written upon their faces and would have put to shame the
						worst mountain feudists of our own time.
					Sordid greed, reckless abandon and the vilest lust were stamped in their every feature.
						Bingoo crept softly into the place after them, and lay down in a corner unnoticed. His
						mind was clear for the present. He looked and listened, but never spoke. It took but a
						short time for him to discover that the plot against his people had been secretly going
						on ever since Ford and Belch came to America.
					The greatest hindrance to the work of the villains had been the presence of William
						Penn. Now that he was gone, all restraint was removed and they wrought with a free
						hand.
					As the hoot owl called the hour of midnight, the door of the hut opened and Eagle Eye,
						the ferocious Sagamore of the Mingoes, entered, followed by his sanaps, or runners,
						scouts, warriors and braves. The place was crowded to its utmost capacity, some
						squatting on the bare earthen floor, while others stood. Without a word, Belch lighted a
						pipe and passed it to the principal visitor, then filled another 
						

							"AT THE DROWSY EVENTIDE."

						
						
						 for himself and the two began to smoke. For a time not a
						word was spoken. Presently the Sagamore looked at Belch and said: "Why for, brother,
						speak."
					Belch rose and went to an open keg of rum, and dipping a gourd into it passed this
						primitive drinking cup to the Sagamore, who, with eager grasp, quickly drained it of its
						contents. His companions were also supplied.
					Belch then rose and addressed Eagle Eye, assuming the Quaker dialect:
					"Welcome, my friend, from the wigwam of the Great Sachem of the Iroquois. Welcome to
						our home and to our hearts. I know thee well. I have watched the stars with thee on the
						banks of the upper Hudson at midnight. Where the mighty Delaware river springs from the
						mountain I have sat with thee and listened to the snarling wolf as it prowled about in
						the night. At the drowsy eventide I have stood with thee beside the rolling waters of
						the Mohawk. On the banks of the Susquehanna at noonday we have watched the fish as they
						sported in the glassy waters and through the wilderness have we trailed together, every
						step of our way beset with poisonous serpents, ravenous beasts, roaring floods and
						rushing tornadoes; yet nothing has terrified us or made us afraid."
					Here he paused and passed another draught of rum to the dusky guests, taking care not
						to touch it himself, then he went on:

					

					"The Iroquois are the strongest people on earth. Roaring Bear is the greatest Sachem
						and Eagle Eye the greatest Sagamore that treads the forest trails. I come to thee
						tonight from the home of the Delawares. Beside the Iroquois they are but babes. The arm
						of the Iroquois is the hurricane at noonday, the arm of the Delawares is the soft wind
						of the summer evening. The voice of Roaring Bear is the voice of the thunder, the voice
						of Tamina is the wail of the wood-bird at night. When Roaring Bear walks about, the
						earth trembles, when Tamina steps forth the leaves on the trees laugh at his feeble
						footfall. The Iroquois are more numerous than the trees in the forest; the Delawares are
						a handful of mushrooms that grow in places dark, dismal and dreary. When the Eagle Eye
						goes forth on the chase or the warpath, the buffaloes flee to the mountains and the
						enemies of the Iroquois to their hiding places. Tamina leads his people to the chase and
						to the field, but goes not to war of his own choosing."
					Again he passed the rum to the eager listeners, then continued with all the passion he
						could command:
					"Roaring Bear is a warrior, a brave; Tamina is a coward, a sneak. Roaring Bear is the
						tallest oak in the forest; Tamina is the crawling ivy in the swamp land. Roaring Bear is
						a man, and like a true man, his heart longs for the field of battle; Tamina seeks peace
						and loves to sit like a squaw and watch  the river as it
						rolls along. To the ear of Roaring Bear the warwhoop of his braves is the sweetest
						music, but it strikes terror to the heart of Tamina.
					"The great white father across the big salt lake has said that theDelawares must die,
						and he has sent me to tell the Iroquois that when the Delawares are driven away the
						Iroquois shall have all their hunting grounds."
					Eagle Eye raised his hand. Belch paused and the Sagamore said, soberly:
					"Does the wind blow the waves from the shore? Do the waters flow up the mountain side?
						Do the leaves grow on the roots of the trees? Is my brother's voice a singing bird?"
					"Why for brother, speak. I understand thee not," said Belch, in surprise.
					"Where is the great paleface chief, Onas, who is more powerful than all the palefaces
						that live among the Red Men of the forest? Has he become a babe so soon?" asked Eagle
						Eye.
					"He is gone. The great white father across the big salt lake called him away. He was
						too good a friend to Tamina and the Delawares and he had to return and give place to
						those who love the Iroquois."
					When Belch had ceased to speak the Sagamore rose in his place. The red fire in the rum
						burned in his brain and glittered in his dark, terrible eye. In awful silence he scanned
						the faces of the group about him and said in tones most vehement:

					

					"My brothers have come to tell me good news. Their voices are the whispers of the winds
						among the leaves of the trees in the springtime. The Delawares shall die. Their blood
						shall fill the rivers to overflowing, their bones shall bleach in the valley and their
						flesh shall make rich the soil of the plain. As the rabbit flies before the fox so shall
						the Delawares fly before the Iroquois. Let my brother go back and tell the Great White
						Sachem that not another great sun shall come and go until the Iroquois will be among the
						Delawares like a cloud of hawks among a nest of young doves and they shall all be driven
						out and the Iroquois will take their places. So have I spoken."
					Belch loaded his visitors with rum and sent a flask filled with a double flame of the
						fires of Inferno to Roaring Bear.
					A week later, Ford and Bingoo were back in the settlement, but Belch remained in the
						Dismal Forest

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XVII.

					THE STORM APPROACHES.

					Bingoo hurried away to Tamina at the first opportunity and related all that had
						happened. The Great Sachem was amazed when he learned that Ford was as deeply implicated
						in the conspiracy as Belch. At once he dispatched two of his faithful runners to the
						canip of Roaring Bear with a request that the latter meet him at the great village of
						the Delawares that lay at the double benid of the Lehigh river near the mountain. A
						month passed and neither of the runners returned. The Sachem waited yet another month,
						then sent out two more runners. These made the journey safely and delivered their
						message to Eagle Eye, who delivered it to his chief. The runners were not kept long
						waiting for soon the answer came: "Go back and tell your chief that at the rising of the
						sun on the first day of hunting moon (December) I will meet him at the great village in
						the Lehigh Valley."
					At the appointed time, Tamina was at the place designated. In a little while Roaring
						Bear and his followers appeared. Tamina was struck with wonder and pity at the
						appearance of the chief whom he  had once known as a true
						friend and a manly man. He had not seen him for five years, and during that time such a
						change had taken place that the Delaware chief scarcely knew him. He had heard that of
						late years the Iroquois chief had chosen for his paleface associates the basest
						characters of the race, but he was illy prepared for this surprise.
					Roaring Bear was once tall and comely, now he was bent and besotted. Once his eye
						sparkled like the rays of the sun, now it was dull and listless. Once he displayed a
						strong, personal pride, now he had grown so careless that he would often lie down in the
						sun and sleep with his dog. Once he was a man of honor who spoke what he meant, now he
						was a child of treachery, who had learned from his paleface associates the art of saying
						one thing while meaning another.
					Distressing as was the picture presented, it was more distressing to contemplate, that,
						according to the decree of a cruel destiny, the great and noble Tamina and his people
						must go down before this vengeful savage nation, and the palefaces who were to come
						after them. Who can foretell what are to be the decrees of destiny and who can calculate
						the full injustice and'wrong it has meted out to the innocent and the good while the
						guilty and the evil have so often gone unpunished?
					As Roaring Bear approached he was supported by two attendants, and was preceded by
						Eagle Eye,  whose cruel nature was well known. In a half
						dazed manner he took the extended hand of Tamina, then sank to the ground at the roots
						of a tree, a pitiful creature in a beastly state of intoxication. A finished product of
						the civilizing influences of English cupidity and English rum.
					"Let the chief of the Delawares speak on, the Great Sachem of all the Iroquois
						listens," said Eagle Eye, in a manner most insolent.
					"My brother is not himself to-day," said Tamina, sternly.
					"He is weak from his long journey. Eagle Eye will speak for him," said the
						Sagamore.
					Tamina drew himself up to his proudest stature and the dart that shot from his eye
						riveted the Sagamore to the spot and paralized his tongue. Casting a look of pity upon
						the once great chief, Tamina said: "When the sun rises again, if my brother be himself,
						I will speak to him," then turned and went to his own wigwam. Just outside he stopped,
						and looking away to the east, as though his eye would pierce the very walls of the
						King's palace, he said in deepest agony:
					"Oh, England. Well have you studied the weakness of my race, and in your efforts to
						destroy it you are shooting a cloud of arrows whose poison is far more deadly than all
						the shot and shell you can use in war."
					At the rising of the sun on the morrow, he met  and
						greeted the Great Sachem of the Iroquois, who, by this time, had become sober but whose
						countenance bore the marks of long continued dissipation. He saw at once that the chief
						was under the spell of Eagle Eye and he determined to hold a conference with Roaring
						Bear alone. He spoke to his sagamores, then slipped his arm into that of his guest and
						led him to the privacy of his own wigwam. Eagle Eye attempted to follow but the door was
						closed and Tamina's braves sat down in front of it, effectually barring the way.
					Tamina seated the visitor on a soft robe, lighted a pipe and extended it to him. The
						offer was refused. Tamina smiled and said: "Will not my brother smoke the calumet ?"
					"Not with a Delaware," was the surly reply.
					"Not even in the wigwam of a Delaware?"
					"Not even in the wigwam of Tamina."
					"Has Tamina ever crossed the trail of Roaring Bear?"
					"No, but the great paleface father across the big salt sea has said that the Delawares
						shall die and that the Iroquois shall take their land and the Iroquois warriors their
						young maidens," said the chief.
					"Who told you this?"
					"Two palefaces who came from the hunting grounds of the Delawares."
					"Tamina knows them well and he knows they lie. If the Mingo goes to war against the
						Delaware  and destroys or drives him from his hunting
						grounds, the arm of the Mingo will be much weaker at the end of the fight than it was at
						the beginning, then will the paleface bring his warriors, and, what is far more deadly,
						he will bring his great canoes filled with rum and will drench the Mingo with it until
						he shall become a babe, then will the paleface destroy the Mingo at his own will."
					"Tamina talks like a Delaware. If the paleface nation turns upon the Iroquois we will
						drive them out as easily as we will drive out the Delawares."
					"Roaring Bear talks like a Mingo. What he sees from the door of his wigwam he believes
						exists everywhere. The Mingoes are strong but the palefaces are stronger. The Mingoes
						are brave but the palefaces are cunning. The Mingoes are honest but the palefaces are
						wise. The Mingoes today, like the Delawares, are free men. They will both fight for
						their freedom and this is why the paleface nation wants to see them destroyed. They will
						induce Red Men to destroy one another as long as they can, then they will destroy those
						who remain.'
					"It is but the voice of a child. It is the wail of a woman. It is the whine of a dog
						that fears a kick. It is the cry of a coward."
					These words were spoken in terrible tones. Roaring Bear had been drinking heavily
						during the interview and his brain was on fire. He expected that Tamina would thrust him
						from his wigwam and  declare war at once, but the
						great-hearted chief only smiled and said:
					"Not even the rattlesnake harms the flower that does it no wrong."
					"The wolf pursues and destroys the rabbit because it is strong and the rabbit is weak,"
						said Roaring Bear.
					"But the wolf destroys not even the rabbit unless it is hungry."
					"The Iroquois is hungry."
					"For what?"
					"For the game that roams the hunting ground of the Delawares."
					"The greed of the paleface has found its way into the heart of the Mingo, I fear,"
						replied Tamina, coolly.
					"The buffalo is strong and eats the grass of the plains," said the Iroquois.
					"But the Great Spirit makes other grasses to grow to show us that there is plenty for
						all," said Tamina.
					'The herds of moose drink the mountain spring dry."
					"But from the mountain sides burst forth other and better springs."
					The visitor had been hemmed in on all sides by the words of Tamina. His anger grew more
						intense. He drank deeper and became more violent. Suddenly he sprang to his feet and
						shouted: "The  throats of the Iroquois are dry and they
						burn with thirst."
					"For what ?" inquired Tamina with perfect coolness, though he anticipated the answer to
						come.
					"For the blood of the Delawares," roared the chief, drawing a
						knife.
					"Let my brother listen to the words of Tamina. My brother will fight against the
						Delawares. The Delawares are not cowards. They know how to fight for their rights and to
						defend their homes They will meet the Mingoes on the field of battle if they must,
						though such is not their desire; but mark my words, if the Delawares shall be destroyed
						or driven across the mountains, the winds that moan in the tall pines for sorrow because
						of their going, will shortly bring the clouds that will weep over the graves of the
						Mingoes. My brother, I have done."
					Tamina opened the door of the wigwam and the visitor passed out. The Delaware again
						extended' his hand. The Iroquois took it to the surprise of all.
					"Farewell, my brother," said Tamina. "When we meet again it will be upon thle bloody
						field of death; but if you should see an arrow or a bullet pierce the breast of the
						Great Sachem of the Delawares, remember that he died with hatred in his heart for no man
						but with a sweet love for all the world," and each went his way.
					Sorrowfully Tamnia took up his journey to his capital village where he arrived in due
						time. Night  after night, he made his way to the cave and
						the strokes to be heard in the darkness told that something was happening in those
						gloomy chambers of which the world knew nothing.
					Upon his return from the north, Ford converted his property into money and left the
						colony, giving out the information that he was going to New York on business. Instead,
						however, he went directly to the camp of the Iroquois where he and Belch busied
						themselves in perfecting a plan of attack upon the Delawares. Their purpose was, first,
						to destroy these dusky friends of William Penn, then combine with his enemies for the
						overthrow of the colony.
					That many of the men in whom Penn placed the utmost confidence both in Europe and
						America, were instrumental in bringing him to a premature grave and that the white race
						destroyed the Iroquois after the latter had crushed the power of the Delawares, are
						matters of history.

					

					When Penn arrived in England he found King Charles near death's door, and in a few
						months the sovereign died. At once there arose a hubbub concerning the rightful heir to
						the throne. The partisans of the Duke of Monmouth set up the cry: "The Great Black Box!
						The Great Black Box! Open the Great Black Box." When this cry was at its zenith, the old
						hag who had shocked and surprised the Duke in the dark streets of London, as has been
							
						

							"THE OLD HAG CREPT FROM HER HOVEL."

						
						
						 heretofore mentioned, crept from her hovel and appeared
						in Trafalgar Square one day. Mounting a platform amid scenes of the wildest excitement,
						she slowly and deliberately unlocked the black box. The crowd stared at her with
						breathless anticipation, as she extended her long, bony fingers down into the mysterious
						depths of the chest and drew forth--

					THE DUKE'S BABY CLOTHES.

					But not a scratch on any kind of parchment upon which the Duke could lay claim to the
						crown. The crowd roared and roared again and then dispersed.
					The news of the mysterious disappearance of Bishop Joss arrived in America shortly
						after Penn did but ne found on his return to England that the mystery was still
						unravelled. Not until James, Duke of York, became King was the problem solved. He was a
						friend to Penn--as the friendship of Kings went--and the latter persuaded him to have
						the prisons of England thoroughly cleansed. When Newgate was entered, among many others,
						a skeleton, having a chain of gold aboit the neck and a golden plate attached thereto,
						bearing the bishop's name, was found in the Dungeon of the Demons. At once a search for
						the murderer was instituted, but the one who was to reveal his whereabouts did not live
						on that side of the Atlantic.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XVIII.

					THE STORM CLOUD BURSTS.

					It was a dreadful night in February 1685. The blinding snow fell so thick and fast as
						to appear like wave after wave of an immense white sheet. In the forest the wind growled
						fiercely and leaped from tree to tree in its awful rage. With loud crashes that sounded
						like death knells ancient monarchs of the forest succumbed, one after another, to the
						increasing weight of accumulated snow and ice, and fell to the earth. A luckless doe
						that had failed to seek shelter, stood at the foot of a broken hemlock, calmly awaiting
						the coming of the next whirling avalanche that should bury her from sight and sound
						forever. A solitary wolf struggled on toward its den for a time, body deep in snow, then
						with a yelp of despair, sank to rise no more; an ambitious fox, which but a moment ago
						had chuckled in silent glee because it found a rabbit half buried in a drift, now
						dropped its prey and plunged headlong into a yawning chasm to perish on the rock below;
						a great, brown bear in a nearby cave thrust its greasy paw into its mouth and went to
						sleep.
					The wind rose higher and higher, the trees bent  lower
						and lower and the mountains roared in their anger. All nature was engaged in a death
						struggle with itself in this awful midwinter storm.
					The day broke gray and desolate over the valley of the Lehigh where the Delaware
						village lay at which Tamina had met Roaring Bear. Not a soul was to be seen, but there
						was a spirit of alertness abroad in the camp. On a high mound in the center of the
						village was a wigwam more pretentious than any of the others. In this sat Tamina arrayed
						in his royal robe of spotless white and surrounded by his sagamores and runners. Since
						the interview with Roaring Bear he had expected his people to be attacked by the
						Iroquois and was never off his guard. He had been apprised by Bingoo of the day the
						attack was to be made and he had hurried to the village on the Lehigh. Strangely enough,
						the day chosen by the Iroquois for the attack was the very day upon which Charles the
						Second, King of England, breathed his last.
					At the rising of the morning there came down the valley from the north a terrible wave
						of wind bearing a cloud of snow and a swarm of infuriated creatures. The Iroquois were
						at the doors of the Delawares. The keen eye of Tamina had penetrated the forest and his
						nostrils had snuffed their coming from afar. His scouts were not surprised by the enemy
						nor were his warriors asleep. They rose as one man and went forth to battle. On, on,  came the Iroquois. They were beyond the stream. They pushed
						their canoes into its icy current. Great hosts of Delawares in canoes met them. Then
						came a battle royal, the like of which the world had never seen. The Delawares fought as
						only men can fight who are defending right against might. Man for man they were the
						equals in prowess of their ferocious enemies from the northland. Not a man knew aught
						but death or victory. The knife was at the throat. The steel was in the heart. The
						tomahawk mercilessly cleft the proud citadel where reason sat enthroned. The waters in
						the Lehigh river became pink, then scarlet, then dark red with the blood of the
						contending warriors. The storm raged fiercer and fiercer and each on-rushing blast
						seemed to bring with it an additional swarm of Iroquois. Would their numbers never cease
						increasing? The Delawares fought like mad men. The Iroquois rushed on like a pack of
						hungry wolves. The Delawares had met their enemies on the farther side of the river.
						Canoe after canoe was sunk, warrior after warrior was slain and the streams of lifeblood
						gushed forth until the river became one struggling, dying, dead mass of human
						beings.
					Gradually the Iroquois pushed the Delawares back from their places. Noonday passed, and
						as the afternoon wore away, the number of Delawares grew fewer and their ranks thinner.
						With a wild shout, the Iroquois, who had gradually fought their I way across the stream, leaped upon its banks. The struggle became terrific.
						There was but one central prize for which both sides contended. It was the person of
						Tamina. His presence among the Delawares equalled a thousand warriors. Ford and Belch,
						both in positions secure from danger, directed the movements of the Iroquois and the
						former insisted that Tamina must be taken alive for he reasoned that to kill him meant
						the loss of the treasure in the cave.
					The Great Sachem fought like a Trojan as nearer and nearer came the enemy. He felt that
						his hour had come, that the beginning of the downfall of the Delawares was at hand, yet
						he would die in defense of his people.
					Night came on. It was intensely dark. A picked party of Iroquois charged toward the
						spot where Tamina fought. His people grasped his arms and hurried him away in spite of
						his protests. They rushed him off into the depths of the forest, then turned squarely
						upon their trail in their efforts to evade the party which they knew would soon be in
						hot pursuit, for the Delawares fell before the Iroquois like grass before the sickle.
						Luckless conclusion. They had gone but a short distance through the blinding snow when
						they came upon a party of Iroquois and whites, headed by Ford and Belch. The fight at
						this point was dreadful. Tamina seized a tomahawk and at one blow cleft the skull of  Roaring Bear. Next he sought to crush the head of Ford but
						that slippery gentleman had quietly stolen to a place of safety. The great Delaware
						Sachem fought like a god. His arm was the arm of the lightning and his voice was the
						voice of the thunder, but the odds were against him. The whites urged the Indians on.
						Around the chieftain lay a dozen warriors of the best blood of the flower of the
						Iroquois nation. With a rush the fierce human monsters closed about him and a moment
						later saw the greatest Indian that ever lived a captive in the hands of his enemies.
					The news of the capture of Tamina ran through the Delaware village like wildfire. A
						wave of fear followed it and paralyzed the arms of the stoutest hearted warriors and
						braves. From that moment the conquest became easy. The massacre was shocking. Old men,
						helpless women and feeble children closed their eyes as the tomahawk, in the hands of
						both whites and Indians rose above their heads, and calmly awaited its descent. All
						night long the hideous, revolting scene went on and when morning came it found only a
						mass of dead and dying humanity, where but one sun (day) ago stood one of the proudest
						cities of the Delaware people.
					The destruction of the Delaware Indians, so effectually begun by the Iroquois in this
						battle, has been most thoroughly completed by the paleface nation, as history will
						attest.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XIX.

					AN INDIAN TELLS NOTHING.

					But where was Tamina? He was hurried away through the forest until the day began to
						break when the party in charge of the chief halted at a deserted cabin for rest and
						counsel. All day, while the storm raged without, the struggle for the possession of the
						royal captive went on. He was finally surrendered to Ford upon the promise of the latter
						to put him to death. At nightfall, Ford and Belch, together with three other white
						renegades as villainous as they, and five strong Indian warriors started through the
						woods with the prisoner securely bound. Bingoo and two dogs followed. The destination of
						the party was the cave of the Evil Spirit, at which they arrived at midnight. Tamina was
						taken inside where he was seated at the edge of the cataract. The five Indians refused
						to enter the place much to the satisfaction of Ford. Here the white men surrounded
						Tamina. Bingoo was instructed to watch the entrance of the cave with the two dogs. Ford
						now approached the Great Sachem and folding his arms across his breast said, in a tone
						of most insolent mockery:

					

					"The rose of the Delawares withers beneath the blast of winter."
					Tamina made no reply.
					"The snake has ceased to crawl and now its length can be measured," Ford went on.
					No response from the chief.
					"The boasted courage of the Great Sachem of all the Delawares has vanished and he sits
						like a pappoose behind the wigwam," the villain persisted.
					Not a word did Tamina utter.
					Ford knew full well that such childish taunts as these could accomplish nothing but the
						poisoned waters of the fountain of hatred and malice in his depraved heart leaped over
						their bounds and escaped in this foul stream of pollution that flowed from his filthy
						lips. He changed his tactics and said:
					"Tamina, Great Sachem of all the Delawares, do you know why you are brought here?"
					"I do," was the quiet reply.
					"What tells you this?"
					"The color of the skin of my captors."
					"I do not understand you."
					"I am the victim of the greed of the paleface nation."
					"Tamina has well spoken," said Ford, "and knows that the supreme desire of the white
						man is the possession of property."

					

					"To the everlasting undoing of his race, Tamina has learned that in the eye of the
						present civilization of the white race the rights of property are more sacred than the
						rights of man," was the calm reply.
					"You have spoken the truth."
					"The Red Man knew nothing else until the paleface came among them."
					"That is not to my present purpose," said Ford, impatiently. "I brought you here
						because I believe that somewhere in this cave you have concealed treasures of great
						value."
					"You have reasoned correctly," said Tamina, coolly.
					The eyes of Ford were ablaze with greedy anticipation, as he said fiercely:
					"Longer parley is useless. After all, you are but a miserable savage who has no rights
						which a white man is bound to respect. I command you to reveal to me the hiding place of
						this treasure."
					Tamina slowly rose and pointed to the seething, thundering cataract at his feet as he
						said, sternly: "Command that stream to leap over the mountain tops."
					"Ah, I see," said Ford, sarcastically. "You would have me understand that I am as
						powerless to execute my commands in one case as in the other."
					"Exactly so," said Tamina, as he resumed his seat. Belch chuckled aloud.


					

					"I can tear your limbs from your body," said Ford, fiercely.
					"The hawk can do as much to the dove but that reveals not to him the place where her
						nestlings await her coming."
					"I can burn your eyes from their sockets."
					"The white man has done that for centuries."
					"I can bind you hand and foot and hurl you from some tall cliff to the rocks a thousand
						feet below."
					"Your race, which boasts of its civilization, has done worse when it has thrown
						helpless women and children from great heights upon thousands of steel spikes set into
						hardest stone."
					"I can bind you hand and foot and drag you out into the forest then watch the wolves
						tear you to pieces at my pleasure."
					"Thousands of your race have shouted themselves hoarse as they sat and watched lions
						and tigers tear white men and women to pieces."
					"Who told you all this ?"
					"My good brother, Onas."
					"I can burn you at the stake."
					"You certainly can, and it would be but another method of torture which your race has
						taught mine, for there was never a captive burned at the stake in all the New World
						until the paleface taught the Red Man how it was done. You might boil me in oil or wrap
						me in a blanket and cover me with pitch then hang me up to a limb and set fire to  me at night. I may be a witch. My runners tell me that at
						Salem, even now, white men and women are being burned to death because they are believed
						to be witches."
					"I can fling you into that cataract where you would vanish beneath the mountain and
						never be heard of again."
					"The wailing waters would not tell you where to find the treasure you seek."
					With the air of an absolute monach the royal prisoner again rose to his feet and
						continued in tones of the most withering defiance:
					"Paleface, listen. Tamina is in your power. You may burn an Indian at the
						stake, you may tear his body into shreds, you may cut out his tongue, you may burn out
						his eyes, you may torture him to death in any manner you choose, but three things you
						cannot do. You cannot make him a slave. You cannot force him to betray a friend and you
						can never wring from an Indian the secet of his heart."
					In the presence of the giant mind, soul and body which confronted him, Ford shrank into
						infantile insignificance and said meekly: "I want not your life, I want your
						treasure."
					"True to the nature of your race, you speak one thing and mean another. You want my
						treasure first and then my life. My life is in your hands-- my treasure you can never
						possess." "I can make you rich."

					

					"Tamina is already rich. The paleface is as poor as a starved dog."
					"I have much property."
					"But no heart. The poorest man in all the world is the man whose heart is filled with
						hatred. malice and greed."
					"But have you no hatred in your heart?" asked Ford in surprise.
					"Not a particle," was the answer.
					"Not even for me?"
					"Not even for you."
					"What is your feeling toward me?"
					"From the depths of my heart I pity you."
					"I cannot understand such a nature."
					"Of that fact I am well aware and for this reason my treasure is not for you."
					Seeing how utterly futile his efforts were, Ford called Belch aside and consulted with
						him for a few moments, after which he approached Tamina and said: "Tamina, we will leave
						you here safely guarded. At midnight tomorrow, we will come again. If you do not then
						reveal to us the hiding place of your treasure, we will kill you and throw your body
						into that stream."
					Tamina answered not a word. Ford then gave instructions to two of the white men to
						guard the prisoner carefully and departed with Belch and the other. At the mouth of the
						cave they called Bingoo, but no answer came. The two dogs were dead and  their bodies were stiff. Signs of a struggle were present
						and a trail led off to the north but it was soon lost in the falling snow. They were
						convinced in their own minds that Bingoo had been murdered by the five Indians who
						refused to enter the cave. They gave up the search and wended their way to the river
						where they found a strong canoe in which they rowed across the stream and entered a
						creek on the Jersey side and were soon at the retreat of a band of river pirates.
					They had scarcely left the cave ere Bingoo crawled out from under some bushes,
						completely enveloped in a blanket of snow. He shook himself like a dog, then grasping a
						strong club, moved slowly to the cave and entered. With catlike tread, he appeared at
						the angle of the rock that hid the prisoner and his guards from view. Cautiously he
						peered around the corner. For a moment his reason left him, then the idiotic stare
						vanished and he smiled. One of the guards had tumbled over and fallen asleep. The other
						sat close to the cataract gazing intently into its whirling depths. The roaring of the
						waters was music to Bingoo. Stealthily he crept up behind the guard who sat beside the
						stream. The war club was raised, a swish in the air told of its falling and an instant
						later there was a splash, a body turned in the current, a white man's face appeared then
						vanished beneath the rocks. Five seconds later the thongs which bound his beloved  chief were severed and the two men were binding the other
						guard who struggled and screamed for mercy.
					This done they left the cave and wended their way to a clump of bushes at the edge of
						the water. Bingoo stepped upon what he supposed to be a snow covered log. It was a boat.
						With the strength of giants, the chief and the Sagamore seized the bark, turned it over
						and emptied the snow. The paddles were gone but they secured two poles and seating
						themselves in the bottom of the boat drifted down the river and arrived safely at the
						great Delaware village. On the way, Tamina told Bingoo where the treasure was concealed
						and of what it consisted but pledged him to keep the matter secret as long as the Great
						Sachem lived.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XX.

					THE CRY OF A BROKEN HEART.

					The joy of his people knew no bounds when they saw their chief face to face again,
						although at first, they thought he was a spirit. The presence of Bingoo dispelled this
						illusion for they were convinced that no such distorted creature as he was ever
						permitted to associate with spirits.
					With slow and measured tread Tamina entered his wigwam. His eager eye swept the entire
						apartment at a glance. A look of disappointment settled upon his countenance. He stepped
						outside and carefully scanned the faces of those about him. The shouts of the people
						sank into a wail of distress. They knew whom he sought and they dreaded for him to learn
						the awful truth. He raised his hand and all was silent as the grave.
					"Where is Tamina's daughter?" were the first words he uttered.
					No one answered. In mute appeal his eyes again wandered over the vast concourse of
						people.
					"Where is the Sunny Eye?" he asked once more. Two old men came forward and led him into
						his wigwam. When they had seated him one of them said softly:

					

					"The heart of the Great Sachem of the Delawares is strong but it has been crushed and
						it is not well that another dart be sent into the vitals of the wounded fawn."
					"Tell me all," said the chief, gently.
					"The Sunny Eye is no more."
					"Is she dead?"
					"Let the Great Tamina prepare for the worst. While he armed himself for battle the
						Sunny Eye was at his side. With her own soft hands she placed upon his shoulders the
						snow white mantle of purity which he always wears when he goes among his people. When he
						stooped to kiss her rosy lips, the light in her eye was truly the light of the sun. When
						he went away she stood and watched him as far as her eye could pierce the forest, then,
						placing the golden arrow against the silver string of her bow, with a smile like the
						smile of the morning she drew the string back, let it loose with a snap and said, as the
						arrow flew after Tamina:
					"'Go, golden arrow and pierce the war cloud and protect my father until he shall return
						in safety to his darling, the Sunny Eye.'
					"When Tamina was gone, a canoe containing two" palefaces came up the river. They
						carried a white flag and when they came near, they inquired for the Sunny Eye. When she
						appeared, they told her they had come from the City of Brotherly Love and were servants
						of Onas. That Tamina had 
						

							"GO, GOLDEN ARROW, AND PIERCE THE WAR CLOUD."

						
						
						 told them that the struggle with the Mingoes would be
						long and bloody and that he could not bear to tell his daughter how terrible it would
						be. They said Tamina had told them to take her away to the great village of palefaces,
						so that no harm could come to her, and to bring her back when all danger had passed.
					"The Sunny Eye listened to the word's of the palefaces and went with them. The next day
						we thought something might be wrong and sent four of your faithful runners in canoes to
						seek her. Since then we have watched each day for her return but every night we have
						turned from the river with sorrowful hearts."
					"The dogs of Ford," said Bingoo, as his face appeared in the doorway, "what were they
						like?" "One had a great scar on the left side of the face and the other had a crooked
						foot," was the reply.
					"I know them well," said Bingoo, eagerly. They have stolen the Sunny Eye by order of
						the Slimy Snake."
					With his voice trembling with emotion the Great Sachem said softly:
					"When Tamina went forth a score of suns ago, his robe was spotless white; he returns
						and it is covered with blood. Blood that was shed by his warriors and braves in defense
						of his life and to prevent his capture by his enemy. He was captured;  that was nothing. They threatened him with the torture;
						that was nothing. They shamefully abused him in the cave; that was nothing. They left
						him bound like a dog between two wolves. He escaped and came to his own people, only to
						find that, by their lying tongues, the palefaces had stolen from him the light of his
						life, the apple of his eye, the core of his heart. They have broken his spirit and
						blasted all his hopes. Something tells Tamina that when the Sunny Eye returns she will
						speak to him with a silent voice. That her warm heart will be still, that the lustre of
						her eye will be faded and the windows of her soul will be closed forever. My children, I
						have done. I am weary and would go to my rest."
					He took a step toward the wigwam door, then changing his purpose, turned and walked to
						the brow of the highland overlooking the river.
					Down, down the Delaware flew the canoes of the runners who had been sent to seek the
						Sunny Eye. On, on, until they were across the Delaware bay and had reached the place
						where they supposed the villains had sought refuge. They were not there. Day by day,
						they went on, sometimes by boat, sometimes on foot. At last they came to the Pokemoke
						river, now in the state of Maryland, then went up the stream until they found the
						village of some friendly Indians. Here they learned the sad fate of the Sunny Eye. She
						had been  enticed away by white men, whom they now knew to
						be the henchmen of Ford, and taken to a lonely spot in the wilderness. After a time, she
						escaped, but was pursued. She reached the place where the road now leading from Snow
						Hill, Maryland to Salisbury, is joined by another road leading into the pine forest.
						Here she sat down to rest her tired limbs, believing she had successfully evaded her
						pursuers. When she was rested she arose and turned her face toward the lonely trail over
						which she had just passed. In another instant an arrow from the bow of a treacherous
						Indian pierced her breast and found a lodgment in her heart. As she fell, she uttered a
						loud scream which struck such terror to the heart of the Indian that he fled. With the
						hand of death she grasped the arrow and drew it from her bosom. In falling, she caught a
						twig of the bush and broke it off. The Indians near by heard her cry and ran to the
						spot. They found her lying on the mossy earth, one hand was grasping the twig and the
						other the arrow and these were crossed upon her breast. They buried her at that spot and
						all the Indians broke off twigs and placed them upon the little mound and from that day
						to this no passer-by fails to break off a twig and drop it upon the little mound that is
						still there and perhaps always will be.
					Not knowing who the girl was,' the Indians named her Wahena, when she was buried, and
						the runners did not reveal to them her true identity, 
						hence to this day the popular belief at and around Snow Hill, Maryland, is that beneath
						the mound known as "Indian Heap" rests the whitened bones of Wahena. Such is not the
						case, however, for, on a dark night, soon after they discovered the place where she was
						buried the faithful runners unearthed the remains, and, after carefully replacing the
						dirt in the grave and the twigs above it, so that no one could discover that it had been
						disturbed, they placed the body in a canoe and started homeward. Three of the runners
						lost their lives from exposure. The other reached the great village of the Delawares in
						safety on the day of Tamina's return, bringing with him the remains of the great
						chieftain's lovely daughter.
					The old, gray day was dying. The dull, old day, that had struggled for a few, short
						hours for existence, was breathing its last and the sable mantle of night was enveloping
						the earth in dismal darkness. The Delaware chieftain, the incarnation of human greatness
						and goodness, even in the midst of the darkest sorrow, stood silent as a statue, his
						keen eyes piercing the darkness far down the river. A canoe swiftly rounded a bend. It
						was manned by a solitary individual. It drew nearer, nearer, then touched the shore. A
						glance told him all. The runner fastened the frail bark then tenderly raised the form of
						a woman from the bottom. He carried his precious burden up the steep hill as easily 
						

							"ALL THAT WAS LEFT OF HIS DARLING--THE SUNNY EYE."

						
						
						 as if it were a child and placed, in the out stretched
						arms of the broken hearted chieftain, all that was left of his darling--the Sunny
						Eye.
					As the leaves of the maple tree quiver in the summer breeze, so quivered the limbs of
						the father when he embraced his daughter. All knowledge of his greatness vanished, and,
						as he gazed into her lustreless eyes, his bosom heaved with agony, the tears gushed
						forth and fell like raindrops upon the face before him, as the floods of grief swept
						over his sorrowing soul. Pressing his lips to her fair forehead he turned and in a few,
						gently spoken words, thanked the runner for his faithfulness, then entered his private
						appartment. As the door closed behind him, it shut in from the thoughtless, the cruel,
						the selfish world, all that was noblest and greatest and best in that part of the human
						race whose skins had been bronzed by untold ages of exposure to the ravages of the
						elements of nature.
					Once inside, Tamina, the father, sank upon the thick robe, clasped his child even more
						closely to his breast, if that were possible, while a look of love lighted up his eye
						and a feeling of tender affection consumed his whole heart. This was followed by an
						expression of pain, sorrow and sympathy which told of the terrible agony within.
					When the hoot owl called the hour of midnight, it found him calm and peaceful. As
						coolly and deliberately as if he were plucking a wild rose from  its parent stem, he picked up a flinty stone that lay near, and with the
						edge of a steel hunting knife, struck it a smart blow. The sparks flew away and settled
						in the dry grass and leaves about him. He rose and went to one corner of the room,
						where, from a secret hiding place, he drew forth a large roll of parchment. He grasped
						it firmly and tenderly. He pressed it to his heart, then went back to where the Sunny
						Eye was sleeping her last, long sleep. Lying down upon the costly robes which rested
						upon the thick bed of leaves, he drew the Sunny Eye to him. She seemed to creep very
						closely to his side, her head resting upon his right arm at the shoulder. A little blaze
						started up a few feet away where a spark had fallen. Tamina held the face of the
						parchment toward the light for a moment and seemed satisfied for he extended his left
						hand and placed over his heart the TREATY BETWEEN WILLIAM PENN AND
							THE INDIANS.
					The village was asleep by his own order. Half an hour later Bingoo was awakened by the
						loud barking and howling of dogs. He looked out of the door of his tepee. The wigwam of Tamina was in flames.
					With a shout he sprang forth and raised the warcry. Dusky figures rushed from their
						tepees 
						

							"SHE SEEMED TO CREEP VERY CLOSELY TO HIS SIDE."

						
						
						 like bees from so many hives. Loud wails and lamentations
						rent the midnight gloom. The Indians were frantic with grief. Strong efforts were made
						to extinguish the fire, but it was no use. The flames leaped higher and higher in
						roaring defiance of the work of their puny hands. The red tongued demcns laughed them to
						scorn, as the dry palmetto leaves, which formed so much of the structure, crackled and
						snapped and flashed, gleaming death into their faces. Branches of the needle covered
						pine and the feather laced cedar grew hotter and hotter and the "ping, ping," that went
						out from the canflagration, told that the highly inflamable sap in the evergreens had
						ignited and that no human power could stop the ravages of this fell destroyer. Then came
						a crash. The roof had fallen in. Up and down the broad and beautiful bosom of the
						Delaware as far as the eye could reach rays of light from this midnight funeral pyre
						cast their weird reflections and the myriads of sparks were seemingly carried to the
						highest heavens. From a thousand throats went up a pitiful wail of sorrow and distress.
						The flames gave one last, long leap heavenward, and, as they parted from the smoke which
						went onward and upward, there were those present who declared they saw the spirit of
						Tamina ascending to the happy hunting grounds of his fathers.
					At any rate, the chase was ended. The die was cast. The sacrifice was complete. The
						Great  Sachem of the Delawares, the wisest Indian that
						ever lived, unable longer to witness the sin, sorrow, cruelty and distress of the human
						race about him, perished in the flames he had, with a steady eye, and a clean
						conscience, kindled by his own hand. The prophecy of King Charles the Second when he
						bade farewell to William Penn, was literally being fulfilled, for, when the fiery dragon
						sapped the foundation of the wigwam of Tamina and snatched away his life, then was
						forever sealed--The doom of the Delawares.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XXI.

					THE TABLES BEGIN TO TURN.

					The next morning a runner reached the camp of the river pirates bringing the news of
						the tragic death of Tamina. The rage of Ford knew no bounds. Over his own protest and in
						compliance with Belch's contention, he had left Tamina in the cave. He wanted to torture
						the chief at the time he was captured but Belch persuaded him to postpone the ordeal.
						Now Tamina had escaped for all time and with him the hope of ever securing his wealth.
						But who had released him?
					"That crooked necked Indian," said the white man they had brought with them.
					"That Indian was killed outside the cave," said Ford.
					"So was I," replied the other.
					"But he is an idiot," said Ford.
					"So am I," retorted the other.
					"Of one thing we are sure," said Ford, "and that is that he is gone. What is to be
						done?"
					Here the runner that brought the news came forward and said: "The twisted Indian is now
						in Tamina's camp, perfectly sane."

					

					"In which case," said Belch, sullenly, "the best thing for you and me to do is to leave
						this country."
					"Why so ?" asked Ford, in alarm.
					"Because, if that Indian is with them now he will betray us to the whites at his first
						rational moment and we will be hailed to England for trial on more charges than one,"
						whispered Belch, when he had drawn Ford aside. "We must capture him at all hazards."
					"Do you believe he knows of the treasure?" asked Ford, of the other white man.
					"I do and what is more, I believe he killed the guards you left in charge of Tamina,"
						replied the other.
					Ford then drew Belch aside and said: "We must act quickly and secretly. This white man
						knows as much about that treasure as we do. Tamina is dead and no one knows exactly
						where the treasure is concealed unless it be Bingoo. We must capture him before this
						fellow does and take him to the cave and compel him to tell us all he knows."
					"There you go after another torture scheme," said Belch. "I should think you had
						learned some sense in dealing with Indians by this time." "I mean we will bribe him by
						telling him we will make him the Great Sachem of the Delawares in Tamina's stead."
					"I doubt the wisdom of your plan, but something,  must be
						done. What are you going to do about the guards we left in the cave?"
					"I hope Bingoo killed them, if it was he who released Tamina, otherwise, all three of
						these white men will be searching for the gold. I will see that this one does not
						interfere with our plans."
					"You are right. We have no more use for them and they must not be allowed to come
						between us and success. I will go to the cave and fix the others and you attend to this
						one."
					Ford was never known to shed blood with his own hands if it could be avoided so he
						induced Slimy Snake, a renegade Indian, to kill the white man. He had no notion of
						allowing Belch to go to the cave alone, so he decided to go with him. When they reached
						the place they found the guard securely tied and so stiff from cold that it was with
						difficulty that he could narrate the fate of his fellow and the release of Tamina by
						Bingoo. When he had done so, Belch gazed at him for a moment but made no movement to
						unbind him. The smile of a demon crossed his face then he muttered: "If I had not
						graduated from Newgate, I could not do this." Then going up to the guard, as if to
						release him, he said with perfect coolness: "I don't believe you are of any further use
						to us and as you know as much of the whereabouts of Tamina's treasure as we do, I will
						just dispose of you."
					"What, are you going to kill me after all I have  done
						and suffered for you?" cried the other in terror, as he tugged at his fetters.
					"No, I am not going to kill you, I'm going to toss you into that cataract."
					"Would you be so basely ungrateful?" pleaded the other.
					"Well, as to that you are an Englishman and know that gratitude has small lodgement in
						an Englishman's heart when success is at stake, so you must bear the ordeal with as much
						resignation as possible," and with his foot he pushed the man into the raging torrent in
						spite of his piteous plea for mercy.
					"Now for the capture of Bingoo," he continued aloud, then to himself, "if I could just
						rid myself of Ford, I would be the sole possessor of the wealth that is concealed over
						there. The trouble is the snake is never off his guard. Being essentially a traitor
						himself, he suspects every one else. Ah, well, I must bide my time and act as
						emergencies arise."
					Leaving the cave and going down the river, they sought the services of the treacherous
						Indian in their efforts to induce Bingoo to meet them at some convenient place. The
						scheme utterly failed, for when the Indian found Bingoo, he discovered that a great
						change had come over him. The shock resulting from the awful death of Tamina had
						produced such a complete revulsion in his mind as to cause him to become entirely
						unconscious for a 
						

							"YOU ARE A TRAITOR TO YOUR RACE."

						
						
						 time but when he came out of his stupor he was perfectly
						rational. He understood the English language and spoke it quite well. When he was
						approached by the Indian he listened to the message, then said:
					"I know you very well, Slimy Snake. You are a traitor to your race and you are the man
						who assisted in forming the plot to steal Tamina's daughter. You came near being
						captured by the braves who followed you. You ought to die and I have a mind to kill you
						but I will not for I want you to carry this message to the Panther and the Bear. Go back
						and tell them that, although the body of Bingoo is still ugly and twisted his mind is
						clear. Tell them that the things he learned in England he will use in America. Tell them
						that Bingoo lives for only one purpose and that is to punish them for the awful crimes
						they have committed. Go," and he turned his back to Slimy Snake.
					When the messenger returned and told Ford and Belch what Bingoo had said they laughed
						right heartily, for they believed he had been seized with one of his old time fits of
						talking, still they set about to capture him. The opportunity came sooner than they
						expected, for, one evening about a week later, Slimy Snake informed'them that Bingoo was
						at that moment on his way up the river. Securing two canoes and two strong Indians to
						row them,  they followed him. Greatly to their pleasure
						and surprise he steered his bark to the bushes at the foot of the cliff in which the
						cave was situated. Withont the least show of caution he climbed the hill and entered the
						cave. Close behind him came his pursuers. He reached the angle of the rock. The roar of
						the cataract smothered the sound of the footsteps behind him. He stood upon the brink of
						the rapids and gazed intently into their foaming depths. His pursuers thought he
						contemplated suicide and at a given signal from Ford, rushed forward and seized him. For
						a moment he struggled hard and was about to hurl himself and all the others into the
						rushing tide, when he recognized the voice of Belch as he uttered a curse.
					Instantly he became calm and said in a steady voice: "Kindle the council fire," then
						seated himself upon the stone floor.
					When the fire was kindled, he folded his arms and his piercing eyes sought those of
						Ford as he said in freezing tones: "Let the paleface speak, the Sagamore listens."
					Had a thunder clap broken loose, the surprise of his captors could not have been
						greater than when they heard him speak. Ford recovered his composure first and said
						softly: "The Great Sachem of the Delawares is dead."
					"The Great Sachem of the Delawares is dead," responded the other.
					"He killed himself," said Ford.

					

					"Two palefaces killed him," was the reply.
					"Who are they?" asked Ford.
					"The light of the council fire in the cave dazzles their eyes and betrays them."
					"How did they kill Tamina?" Ford pursued.
					"They broke his heart," replied the other.
					"How?"
					"They betrayed his confidence, they ruined his young men, they debauched his young
						maidens, they lied and deceived William Penn, they filled the Mingoes with rum and
						caused them to go to war against the Delawares and finally they stole his daughter, the
						Sunny Eye. She went away a blushing rose, she came back a withered leaf. Then did Tamina
						die, for he no longer wished to live."
					Ford quailed a little beneath these terrible accusations but recovered his composure
						quickly and said in a tone of bitterest sarcasm:
					"Tamina did well to die with a broken heart for if Bingoo had not set him free, he
						would probably have died with a broken head."
					"There is no such person as Bingoo," said the other, leaping to his feet.
					Instantly two rifles were pointed at his heart and Ford said with a sneer:
					"Then who is it that graces this occasion with his presence?"
					"It is The Avenger."
					"Ha, ha! Bingoo, The Avenger. That sounds  big. Bingoo
						the bloviating blatherskite, is nearer the truth, but tell us, thou great Sampson, what
						do you propose to avenge?"
					"The death of Tamina.'
					"Come, come, be civil. Tamina was no avenger."
					"Tamina was a saint," the voice of the Sagamore fell to a low, tender
						tone, "but The Avenger is a man," then his eyes sparkled with defiance.
					Ford, feeling absolutely certain that the Sagamore was at his mercy, assumed a pleasant
						air and said:
					"Say, Bingoo, where is the use of making a fool of yourself? Tamina is dead and turned
						to ashes. The Delawares have no chief. You have been to England and have learned much.
						You are wiser than all the Delawares. You know we have the power to crush them all,
						hence we have the power to make you their Great Sachem."
					"The paleface speaks one thing and means another," said the Sagamore, seating himself
						again. "Tamina had great treasures hidden in this cave."
					"Now, The Avenger understands, speak on."
					"Bingoo knows where that treasure is," said Ford, eagerly.
					"The Avenger knows where the treasure is and what it is," said the other, a shrewd look
						appearing in his eye.
					"Reveal to us the hiding place of the treasure  and we
						will make you Great Sachem of all the Delawares and swear to assist your nation to drive
						off the Mingoes," said Ford, leaping to his feet.
					"The paleface breaks his word soonest when he swears to it," said the Indian,
						soberly.
					"We will never break our word with the Great Sachem whom we have placed at the head of
						his people. Come, come, show us the treasure," and Ford trembled with eager
						anticipation.
					Full five minutes the Sagamore sat in silence as if deliberating upon a line of action.
						Then a strange light appeared in his eye. He rose, went to a crevice in the rock, and
						drew out a long pole, saying as he did so: "The Sagamore will find the treasure."
					"Will you bring it to us ?" asked Ford.
					"The Sagamore does not know."
					Again he was covered with the rifles as Ford said sternly: "The Sagamore cannot go
						unless he promises."
					"I promise," said he.
					Extending the long pole to the middle of the stream, he moved it about as if seeking a
						solid place upon which to rest the lower end. When he had found this, he placed one hand
						upon the other end of the pole, swayed his body backward, then with a forward swing, and
						at the same time grasping the pole with the other hand to balance himself, he cleared
						the raging torrent with ease and was in that portion of the cave where Tamina's treasure
						was concealed.

					

					"Bravo, bravo," shouted Ford and Belch in a breath. "Now run along and bring us a load
						of gold," said Ford.
					The Indian disappeared in the darkness with the stealthy step of a trained scout. He
						remained away for some time then retured to, the water's edge and said: "The Sagamore
						cannot carry it. It is too heavy."
					"Belch, go over and help him," said Ford, quickly.
					'Don't imagine for a moment that I am going to risk my precious life in a leap across
						that torrent.
					Go yourself, since you are gold insane."
					"It is rather dangerous for me."
					"Dangerous for you? Is your life worth any more to you than mine is
						to me ?" said Belch, in the bitterest sarcasm.
					"Mind is always more valuable than matter."
					"Oh, ah, um, I see, and I have a 'mind' to stay on this side of that stream, no
						'matter' what you do."
					"Here, Bingoo, toss me that pole and 1 will come over," said Ford. "Let it come. There,
						I have it. Now, how do you do it? Let me practice a little upon this stone floor. I have
						the swing, now for the leap. Where shall I place the end of the pole, there is a solid
						place, how will that do?"
					"It is too close to you, you can never clear the rapids," said the Indian. His
						practiced eye knew the shape of every stone in the bed of that stream  by the angle at which the water flowed over it. He scanned
						the surface carefully as if seeking a solid, sure place for the end of the pole to rest
						upon. "There," said he, pointing downward, "do you see that place where the water whirls
						round and round as it rushes onward?"
					"I do."
					"Place the end of the pole upon that exact spot. You have it. Now step backward. That's
						right. Ready, swing forward and leap," he shouted at the top of his
						voice.
					Ford obeyed. His feet left the solid stone beneath him. His body began to mark a
						semicircle that should land him safely on the other side. He was now in mid air. A foot
						farther and the momentum of the leap would drop him beyond the stream. But, oh, horrors!
						How futile the calculations of man. The stone the Indian had purposely directed him to
						plant the end of the pole upon sloped away from him and when he reached a certain point
						the weight of his body pushed the lower end of the staff from the surface of the rock
						and he fell into the middle of the cataract. Bingoo caught the pole as it fell toward
						him. One loud splash into the water, one louder scream of the luckless villain and one
						loudest roar of delight from the torrent, and the greatest rogue that ever disgraced an
						American colony disappeared from the stage of life and action. His body evidently caught
						upon a projecting rock in the stream for it was never recovered.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XXII.

					THE CHICKENS GO HOME TO ROOST.

					When the body of Ford disappeared, Belch uttered a low chuckle of delight and said, as
						he slapped himself upon the knee: "Better born lucky than rich. Now, I'll get the whole
						mess-pot of plunder without the loss of a hair or a moment's sleep. I have always
						boasted that avarice was not one of my besetting sins, but somehow, since I am now
						practically the possessor of untold wealth, I feel a kind of shrinking sensation in my
						whole being and I cannot restrain my fingers from reaching out and grasping at
						something. I wonder if greed holds all men in such servile bondage. Oh, well, such is
						life. Hey! Bingoo, you red rascal, where are you? Why don't you come with that yellow
						stuff. You've been away an hour. By 7nhinds, I believe the fellow has stolen it and
						sneaked out some other way. Hello! you dog, come here."
					The light flared up and revealed the figure of the Indian emerging from the dark
						chambers of the cavern. Slowly he approached the side of the cataract. His step was
						halting and his movements labored. He was carrying a heavy, flat stone. He  lay it down at the brink of the stream. Three more times he
						disappeared in the darkness and as often returned bearing a similar slab. Then he placed
						them side by side with their lower ends near the stream and the upper ends leaning
						against other stones. Upon these slabs were chiseled a succession of characters, which
						evidently meant to convey information of rare importance. When the last slab had been
						put in place Bingoo sat down upon the stone floor beside them.
					Belch had watched what he was pleased to call the "antics of the idiot," with much
						interest and more amusement. When Bingoo sat down beside the stones, the former said
						sternly: "What kind of a playhouse have you there?"
					"Tamina's treasure," said the other.
					"Tamina's foot, you idiot. You've only stuck up four flat stones over there," said
						Belch.
					"On their faces is written 'Tamina's Treasure,' replied Bingoo.
					"Confound it, he's gone wild again. I thought perhaps his mind had cleared up but he is
						worse than ever for I never knew him to cut such capers as that before. Bingoo!" he
						shouted.
					"Bingoo is not here, The Avenger listens."
					"Throw those stones into that stream and go back and bring me the gold."
					Slowly the Indian placed his hand into his bosom and drew forth a piece of faded
						parchment, and,  in the glare of the light from beyond the
						stream, he carefully copied upon it all that was chiseled upon the stones. While this
						was going on Belch stood upon the opposite side of the stream raving and cursing like a
						mad man. Presently the Indian completed his work and looking up, said calmly: "The
						Avenger listens."
					"Throw those rocks into the stream I say."
					"The Avenger does not hear."
					"I'll make you hear. Now do as I bid you and be quick about it," and he pointed his gun
						at the Indian's heart.
					"The paleface will not shoot," said the other with a smile.
					"Why not?"
					"If he does, he cannot find Tamina's treasure."
					Belch was puzzled. He reflected for a moment, then said: "Bring those stones over
						here."
					The Indian lay the parchment down and carefully placed another stone over it, then he
						fastened one of the slabs upon his back with deer thongs, and, placing his pole in
						position, leaped across the chasing and lay his precious burden at the feet of the white
						man. As easily he brought the others, then placed them all before the fire in the
						position they had occupied beyond the stream. This done he waited.
					Belch now moved back a step and read the inscription. When he had done so, he said witn
						an oath: "And this is what you call Tamina's Treasure, is it?"

					

					"This is Tamina's treasure," said the other.
					"Well, if you'll stand there about five minutes, I'll show you how much of a treasure
						it is," and taking the slabs one by one, he raised them above his head, then dashed them
						to pieces upon the stone floor at his feet, after which, he deliberately kicked the
						fragments into the cataract and said with a sneer: "Now what have you to say, Bingoo--I
						mean The Avenger? Ha, ha."
					"The Avenger says nothing."
					"Well, I'll say something then. If you don't want your carcass riddled with bullets you
						had better go over there and bring me the stuff. Do you hear? Now begone."
					The Indian vaulted the stream, then carefully picked up the parchment and was starting
						away when Belch called to him and said: "What is that you have?"
					"A piece of parchment," and he moved a little farther away.
					"What was that you wrote upon it?"
					"On which side?" asked Bingoo.
					"On that side."
					"I copied Tamina's treasure from the stones," and he moved yet farther away.
					"What is on the other side ?" shouted Belch.
					"Shall I read it to the paleface?"
					"Of course, and be quick about it."
					He held the face of the parchment to the struggling  rays
						of the flickering light and said in a loud voice: "It reads as follows:

					London, England, December 25, 1650.
					Because of her persistent disobedience of the laws of England, because she is suspected
						of being a conspirator against the King, because she is saturated with heresy and
						because she insolently resented the innocent advances of one of His Majesty's sanctified
						guardians of the Faith, it is hereby decreed that Sarah Belch shall be imprisoned until
						dead in the Dungeon of the Demons at Newgate prison, London.
					By Order of James Joss,
					Bishop.

					"The order that murdered my mother," exclaimed Belch, in surprise. "Where did you get
						it?"
					"I picked it up from the floor of Newgate prison."
					"Bring it to me at once or your life shall pay the penalty," said Belch, pointing his
						gun at the Indian.
					"Ha, ha, it is now The Avenger's time to laugh. He will bring you the parchment when
						the sea rushes over the mountain."
					Belch sent a bullet flying after him but it went wide of its mark.
					"Farewell, my paleface brother, the dog will trot  home
						by another trail, but The Avenger will meet you again."
					"Where?" shouted Belch.
					"At the Dungeon of the Demons." He vanished in the darkness and made his exit through a
						secret passage known only to himself.
					When he reached the camp of the Delawares, everything was exictement. Two detectives
						from England were there. They were on the track of Ford and Belch. They had followed
						clew after clew in their efforts to locate the murderer of Joss. On his deathbed Henry
						Harold, the sailor, told of his midnight adventure with Joss at Newgate and of the fate
						of the latter, buthe did not know whom the murderer was. Belch was known to have hated
						Joss because of the cruel death of his mother. That mattered not, the laws of England
						had been grossly violated, and the violator must be punished, and Belch was the one
						suspected.
					The detectives seized The Avenger and placed him under arrest as an accomplice in the
						commission of the crime. He soon convinced them that he was not implicated. Then he said
						in good English: "I am the only living being who knows the murderer."
					"Who is he ?" asked the detectives, eagerly.
					"Norman Belch," was the cool reply.
					"Was John Ford implicated ?" they inquired.
					"John Ford is food for the fishes of the Delaware.

					

					He knew of the murder but did not help commit it. Belch alone is responsible for the
						deed."
					"Why did he do it?"
					"Joss threw his mother into the Dungeon of the Demons where she died."
					'"She was a heretic," said one of the detectives.
					"She was a conspirator," assented the other.
					"She insulted a Bishop," said the first.
					"That is paleface civilization with which the Red Man has nothing to do," was the
						cutting reply of the Indian, "but do you seek Belch?"
					"Yes, where is he?"
					"Among the Mingoes."
					All the power of England was soon on his trail. Belch had fled to the land of the
						Iroquois as the Indian had said he would do. Here he was found, and here he discovered
						that the same tactics he employed to induce the Iroquois to destroy the Delawares were
						used by his own race and kin to, induce them to betray him into the hands of the
						officers.
					After a desperate resistance, he was arrested and taken to England where he was tried
						for the murder of a High Churchman, even a Bishop. Bingoo as the only living witness
						against him was taken also. He swore away the life of his former master as readily as he
						would have shot a snake.
					Belch was led away to Newgate. Bingoo had no trouble in securing permission to follow
						him. The villain was taken to the dreaded dungeon, and, as  he was being thrown into it, his eye caught sight of the distorted figure of the
						Indian, who, true to the last words he spoke in the cave, actually met the condemned man
						at the door of the Dungeon of the Demons.
					The Avenger left for America in a few days. Shortly after his arrival he was taken with
						smallpox, which he had contracted when he visited the prison, and died. His last request
						was to be buried with the sacred parchment containing Tamina's Treasure, lying on his
						breast. Only cne other copy was preserved. His request was granted and he sleeps today
						among the lovely hills of eastern Pennsylvania.

				

				

				

					CHAPTER XXIII.

					THE TREASURE OF TAMINA.

					"Tamina, the Great Sachem of all the Delawares, the morning star of the smiling sunrise
						and the evening star of the blushing sunset, does hereby bequeath unto his people and to
						all the children of men who shall come after them, these, the most precious treasures of
						his heart.

					

					THE PRELUDE.

					"The Great Spirit created all men. He placed them in his greenest valley beside his
						most beautiful river. Here they lived in perfect peace and brotherly love, for they were
						noble, pure and good. The smile of the sun lighted up their faces by day and the moon
						shed her softest blessings upon them by night and they were happy.
					"With their hands they plucked the roses in the mountains and their feet pressed the
						velvet mosses of the valley and they were contented.
					"They went into the forest and procured sufficient food to satisfy the hunger of
						themselves, their old men, their wives and their children and from no hand did they
						withhold what it needed.
					"They were honest and truthful. When they spoke, their lips told the feelings of their
						hearts. When they made a promise to a brother it was written upon their hearts and to
						break a promise was to break a heart.
					"With willing hands the young men and maidens supplied the wants of the aged and
						infirm. The  head of the mother rested upon the bosom of
						her daughter and the tottering frame of the father was supported by the strong arm of
						the son.
					"The Great Spirit was their comforter and they asked for nothing more.
					"But such happiness was not to be for all time. The sky could not remain clear
						forever.
					"One day, a black cloud came up out of the sea. The thunders roared in the mountains.
						Rocks were torn from their beds by the lightning and the trees were splintered by the
						hurricane. When the cloud had passed away, upon the topmost peak of the mountain was to
						be seen a creature whose robes were as black as the darkest hour of Egyptian
						midnight.
					"His name was Malice, his other name was Hatred.
					"Beneath his smile the roses of virtue that bloomed upon the cheek of youth and beauty,
						faded away and the expression of modesty disappeared from the eye of innocence, while
						the withering blight of his frown locked in the icy embrace of selfishness all the well
						springs of sympathy that had flowed on, unrestrained, in the hearts of men. His breath
						was the poisonous vapor of scandal and his tongue was the deadly dagger of gossip.

					

					"For ages and ages he sat upon the mountain crag and all the children of men were
						compelled to pass that way on their journey from the beautiful valley to the Happy
						Hunting Grounds. There was no escape from his evil influence for there was no other
						trail through the forest of life. Before they reached the place where he sat, they were
						noble, innocent and good; but, from the time they passed beneath his shadow, they were
						covetous, deceitful and their hearts were sore with sin.
					"Then it was that anger, strife and war appeared in the land. Men flew at one another
						like so many wild beasts. They practiced lying and deception. They coveted the lands,
						the wigwams, the wives and the maidens of their brothers and for these they struggled
						until it seemed as if the whole human race must sometime be destroyed.
					"One beautiful springtime day there came along this busy trail a most comely creature
						whose name was Sweet Charity and whose other name was Love. Her garb was plain, her step
						was elastic, her movements were graceful, her manner was modest and upon her countenance
						there beamed a smile of purity which could not be resisted.
					"On, on. she came, with the rest of the company  and so
						innocent was her own heart that she did not so much as realize, that within the length
						of her pure, white arm, sat the sworn enemy of all human happiness. Her face was to the
						valley of Truth and her eyes were upon the souls of her fellow travelers. Upon her brow
						sat the wreath of Friendship and in her hand she held the garland of Peace.
					"As she moved along, she noticed that her companions became restless. Their smiles were
						changed to frowns, their songs to sneers and their soft words tc bitter curses, and she
						could not understand it. Suddenly she turned and found herself face to face with the
						dreadful creature who was the source of all the sorrow about her.
					"Then came a struggle for life or death. Malice frowned and Love smiled; Malice scorned
						the good, Love pitied the evil; Malice cursed the whole human race, Love blessed them;
						Malice breathed into the hearts of men the dark vapors of lust; Love threw the mantle of
						Modesty around them and it vanished; Malice saturated the souls of men with covetousness
						and greed; Love poured into the wound the oil of Justice and it was healed; Malice
						entered the home of the widow and the orphan, and, with the lash of his cruel whip,
						drove them out into 
						

							"THEN CAME A STRUGGLE FOR LIFE OR DEATH." 

						
						
						 the blinding storm; Sweet Charity met them at the door,
						and, with a generous hand and a sympathetic heart supplied their every want.
					"Malice flung to the breeze the ensign of Oppression, of Pleasure, of Injustice and
						Wrong.
					"Upon the banner of Sweet Charity, in letters of gold with etchings of silver, was the
						motto:
					"'The Necessity of Right Living and the Equality of Man.'
					"The struggle was long and earnest. Finally, Malice began to grow weaker. The hand of
						Oppression became paralyzed by the warm breath of Freedom; the ribald song of guilty
						Pleasure was drowned in the Home-lay of the family circle; the thundering voice of
						injustice was stilled by the gentle summer breeze of Truth and the dark frown of Power
						vanished beneath the steady gaze of The Equality of Man.
					"Malice fled from the mountains and Sweet Charity, whose other name was Love, filled
						the whole earth.

					

					THE PROPHECY.

					"My children, the last sun of your father, Tamina, is rapidly sinking behind the
						mountain fringe whose towering head rests upon the bosom of the pale, blue sky.
					"He has seen and felt much of the sorrow and trouble that is the common lot of all men,
						yet, he has also seen and felt the joys and the comforts that everywhere abound.
					"Tamina has lived a hundred Great Suns ahead of his time.
					"With his inward eye he beholds his own race following him to the Happy Hunting Grounds
						and in their places he sees a race that is beautiful of face, comely of form, warm of
						heart and wise in speech.
					"He sees this race struggle and strive and toil onward, onward, yet its every step
						brings it a little higher on the trail toward human happiness.
					"This trail is not a smooth one and its reverses are many, but it keeps its eye ever
						toward the bright star of Hope and presses onward, upward.
					"The place that knows the Delawares will shortly  know
						them no more forever, but upon their graves shall rise a nation whose children shall
						plant a tree which they shall call Liberty. The roots of this tree shall travel through
						the whole world and beneath the shade of its branches all the children of men shall sit
						in peace.
					"They shall lift up their faces to the mountains and shall behold the crystal waters
						that their wisdom shall teach them to harness and the waters shall toil for the children
						of men.
					"They shall walk by the rivers and shall see great villages whose ceaseless song is one
						of busy industry and happy good will.
					"Their big canoes shall dot the great waters as the wild ducks now dot the bosom of the
						lakes in the forest and these canoes shall be laden with good things for the comfort and
						happiness of all.
					"They shall build great houses in which the children of the earth shall be taught the
						wisdom which shall make the paleface nation the rulers of the whole earth.
					"In all material things they shall prosper as the growth of the grass upon their broad
						and beautiful plains, where the flocks and the herds which are to be the food of these
						palefaces shall roam in peace  and contentment. Yet, they
						shall not forget the higher sentiments that inspire the hearts of all true men, for
						every man shall be a brother to every other man.
					"The hand of selfishness that withheld from his brother the good things of life, shall
						become an open hand of charity which will be extended to this brother and both shall
						have more abundantly.
					"The seared and hardened hearts shall be no more, for every man shall smile with his
						brother in the day of his prosperity and shall extend the hand of sympathy in the night
						of his adversity.
					"More powerful than all the nations of the earth shall this great nation be, for the
						hand of Sweet Charity shall feed the hungry, shall clothe the poor and its gentle touch
						shall cool the burning Lrow of the stricken brother; the voice of Sweet Charity shall
						comfort the distressed, encourage the depressed anti restrain the wayward; and the smile
						of Swcet Charity, so pure and so innocent, shall shed such a gloN of peace in the hearts
						of all men as to cause them to sustain the highest standard of pure morals and right
						living.
					"Finally, when the days have passed into. years and the years into centuries there
						shall rise in that  great nation a band of the noblest,
						the best, the truest of all its men, and women that shall fill its whole bounds and
						shall flourish wherever its banner floats; a band whose numtnbers shall be as the leaves
						on the trees, whose destination shall be the hearts of men and whose mission shall be
						the uplifting of the entire human race. This great family of brothers and sisters shall
						emulate the virtues and shun, the vices of all men of whatever race or color and upon
						their banner shall appear the eternal motto: Freedom, Friendship, Charity and Brotherly
						Love.
					"This is the treasure which Tamina bequeaths to all men of all times and nations. It is
						better than gold or silver, or wigwams, or lands, or rivers, or lakes or seas. These are
						my truthful words. They have gone from me and shall not return. My children, I have
						done.

					"Tamina."

					THE END.

					

					 

				

			

		


	
