
  ----CITATION---- 
        Field, Isobel Osbourne.. Robert Louis Stevenson. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/inauthors/VAB1825
  ----FULL TEXT----
        
  




   Advertisement
    

    
     IN SIMILAR FORM 16mo, Boards, net 50c. Leather, net $1.00

    Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews The Perfect Tribute The Lifted
     Bandage 

    Maltbie Davenport Babcock The Success of Defeat 

    Katharine Holland Brown The Messenger

    Richard Harding Davis The Consul 

    Robert Herrick The Master of the Inn 

    Frederick Landis  The Angel of Lonesome Hill

    Robert Louis Stevenson A Christmas Sermon Prayers Written at
     Vailima Aes Triplex 

    Isobel Strong Robert Louis Stevenson

    Henry van Dyke School of Life The Spirit of Christmas The
     Sad Shepherd 
   

   



   
    ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
    

    

    
   


   

   Frontispiece
    
     
      ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON (An unpublished portrait)
     
    
   

   
   
    
     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
    

    BY
     Isobel Strong Joint Author withLloyd
      Osbourne of
     MEMORIES OF VAILIMA

    
     
      NEW YORK
     
     Charles Scribner's Sons
     1911
    
   

   

   Verso
    
     Copyright, 1911, by Charles Scribner's Sons
    
   


   

   
    ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
    
   

   

  
  
  	
  	ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
    



    
     THE CHILD

     ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
     
      BEFORE R. L. S. was known to the world as a writer, the name of Stevenson
      called to mind the lighthouses that guard the coast of Scotland and "open in the dusk their
      flowers of fire." Twenty sentinels they stand, built upon rocks in the midst of angry seas,
      solidly defying the storms of the North while bearing mute testimony to the daring skill of
      their builders. It was from these brave men that Robert Louis Stevenson inherited his name and
        his courage. He wrote in "Underwoods": 
       
        "Say not of me that weakly I declined
        The labours of my sires and fled the sea,
        The towers we founded and the lamps we lit,
        To play at home with paper like a child.
        But rather say: In the afternoon of time
        A strenuous family dusted from its hands
        The sand of granite, and beholding far
        Along the sounding coast its pyramids
        And tall memorials catch the dying sun,
        Smiled well content, and to this childish task
        Around the fire addressed its evening hours."
       
      
     

      He "played with paper" to such good effect that now the name of Stevenson spells romance,
      courage against all odds, and the bright gospel of hope. 

      He was born in Edinburgh on the 13th of November, 1850, and christened  Robert Lewis Balfour Stevenson. The spelling, but not the pronunciation, of his
      second name was changed later and the Balfour dropped. 

      The climate of his native land was a cruel one for a delicate child--or perhaps the climate
      made the child delicate. At any rate, the story of his early life would be sad reading were it
      not for the radiance of his spirit that glowed through the dull clouds of ill-health like a
      burning lamp. When he was five years old he was asked by his mother what he had been doing,
      and the answer is the key-note of his character: "I have been playing all day," he said, "or
      at least I have been making myself cheerful." 

      His eager eyes looked brightly  through the mist of pain and
      found charm and interest in everything about him. Through his rose-coloured glasses the
      next-door garden was a foreign land; he heard galloping hoofs in the wind at night, and his
      sick-bed, touched by the magic of his fancy, changed to "The Pleasant Land of Counter-pane."
      "Once," he wrote, "as I lay playing hunter, hid in a thick laurel, and with a toy gun upon my
      arm, I worked myself so hotly into the spirit of the play that I think I can still see the
      herd of antelope come sweeping down the lawn and round the deodar -- it was almost a vision." 

      In the evening, after dinner, one can imagine the "wee laddie" sitting by the fire, his
      head leaning on his hand, his eyes tightly shut, dreaming  of
      fairy lands, of forests, and the "rain-pool sea," and then 
       
        "When my eyes I once again
        Open and see all things plain,
        High bare walls, great bare floor,
        Great big knobs on drawer and door,
        Great big people perched on chairs
        Stitching tucks and mending tears,
        Each a hill that I could climb
        And talking nonsense all the time.
        O dear me
        That I could be
        A sailor on the rain-pool sea,
        A climber in the clover tree,
        And just come back, a sleepy-head,
        Late at night to go to bed."
       
      
     

      Mr. Stevenson explained to me once, a little whimsically, that he wrote his books with the
      faith of a child playing a game. He believed his characters were real people, and saw them as
      clearly as the herd of  antelope galloping across his
      grandfather's lawn. If he once discovered they were only pen-and-ink, his story would come to
      an end. He said "an author must live in a book as a child in a game, oblivious to the world."
      He had no patience with half-hearted people. Once while waiting in a drawing-room he saw a
      small boy playing boat on a sofa. The little man rowed and put up sail and hauled in imaginary
      ropes, and finally, tiring of the game, jumped off the make-believe craft and walked to the
      door. "Oh!" exclaimed Mr. Stevenson reproachfully. "For God's sake swim!" 

      Though little Louis was an only child, he had cousins, and they all, himself included,
      adored "Auntie," his mother's sister, Miss Balfour, of  whom I
      quote this interesting description: -- "I have mentioned my aunt. In her youth she was a wit
      and a beauty, very imperious, managing, and self-sufficient. But as she grew up she began to
      suffice for all family as well. An accident on horse-back made her nearly deaf and blind, and
      suddenly transformed this wilful empress into the most serviceable and amiable of women. There
      were thirteen of the Balfours as (oddly enough) there were of the Stevensons, and the children
      of the family came home to her to be nursed, to be educated, to be mothered, from the
      infanticidal climate of India. There must sometimes have been half-a-score of us children
      about the manse, and all were born a second time from Aunt Jane's tenderness. It was strange
        when a new party of these sallow young folk came home, perhaps
      with an ayah. This little country manse was the centre of the world, and Aunt Jane represented
      Charity. The text, my mother says, must have been written for her and Aunt Jane: 'More are the
      children of the barren than the children of the married wife.'


      A happy day at the manse was too often followed by illness, and then Alison Cunningham
      cared for the sick boy. To her he wrote: 
       
        "For the long nights you lay awake
        And watched for my unworthy sake:
        For your mostcomfortable hand
        That led me through the uneven land:
        For all the story-books you read,
        For all the pains you comforted:
        For all you pitied, all you bore,
        In sad and happy days of yore:
       

       
       
        My second mother, my first wife,
        The angel of my infant life-
        From the sick child, now well and old,
        Take, nurse, the little book you hold!
       


       
        And grant it, Heaven, that all who read 
        May find as dear a nurse at need,
        And every child who lists my rhyme
        In the bright fireside nursery clime 
        May hear it in as kind a voice 
        As made my childish heart rejoice."
       
      
     

      In after years, whenever Stevenson spoke of his childhood, the sick-room, the wakeful
      nights, even the pain he suffered, served merely as a background to " Cummy's" rare devotion.
      He was grateful to her all his life. He wrote letters to her, he sent her copies of all his
      books as they came out, he had her to stay with him in Bourne- mouth, and even proposed
      sending for her to pay a visit to Samoa. "Cummie was full of life and merriment.*
       She sang and danced to her boy and read to him most
      dramatically. She herself tells how, the last time she ever saw him, he said to her before a
      room full of people: 'It's you that gave me a passion for the drama, Cummie.' 'Me, Master
      Lou,' I said. 'I never put foot inside a play-house in all my life!' 'Ay, woman,' said he,
      'but it was the grand dramatic way ye had of reciting the hymns!' " 


      Louis Stevenson was one of the few people who recall their early days. In a way he never
      outgrew them. Instead of passing through the phases of childhood and youth, he went on
      carrying them with him through life, growing richer with the years. In "A *Writes Graham Balfour in "Life of Robert Louis
       Stevenson."
       Child's Garden" one sees how vividly he remembered, for that
      book was not written for children; it was the recollections of his own childhood put into
      verse: 

       
        "But do not think you can at all,
        By knocking on the window, call
        That child to hear you. He intent
        Is all on his play-business bent.
         He does not hear, he will not look,
        Nor yet be lured out of this book.
        For, long ago, the truth to say,
        He has grown up and gone away,
        And it is but a child of air 
        That lingers in the garden there."
       
      
     

    
    
     


     THE YOUTH
     THOUGH Stevenson's parents were well to do and the lad was surrounded by
      every comfort and even luxury, the odds were against him. The climate of his native land was
      an impossible one, that made living in Edinburgh a constant fight for health; but his father
      would not forego his ambition to make his son a lighthouse engineer. The boy went obediently
      to Skerryvore, and the Bass Rock to inspect the construction of the works, bringing home, not
      technical knowledge, but romantic impressions that he used afterward in his books. "David
      Balfour's" description  of the old rock shows how clear some of
      them were. "The strange nature of this place, and the curiosities with which it abounded, held
      me busy and amused. . . . I . . . continually explored the surface of the isle wherever it
      might support the foot of man. The old garden of the prison was still to be observed, with
      flowers and pot-herbs running wild, and some ripe cherries on a bush. A little lower stood a
      chapel or a hermit's cell; who built or dwelt in it, none may know, and the thought of its age
      made a ground of many meditations. . . . There were times when I thought I could have heard
      the pious sound of psalms out of the martyr's dungeons, and seen the soldiers tramp the
      ramparts with their glinting pikes  and the dawn rising behind
      them out of the North Sea." 

      Thomas Stevenson took his son on many wild trips about the North Coast of Scotland, trying
      to interest him in the profession that was so dear to his own heart. Stevenson respected the
      work and admired his father's share of it, as we read in "Thomas Stevenson, Civil Engineer." 

      "At this time his lights were in every part of the world, guiding the mariner; his firm
      were the consulting engineers to the Indian, the New Zealand, and the Japanese lighthouse
      boards, so that Edinburgh was a world centre for that branch of applied science; in Germany he
      had been called 'the Nestor of lighthouse illumination'; even in France, where his claims were
      long denied,  he was at last, on the occasion of the late
      exposition, recognised and medalled." 

      It must have needed a great deal of courage to tell such a man that his dearest hopes were
      to be dashed to the ground. Happily, the differences between father and son were of short
      duration, and they became in later years the best and closest of friends. The intense interest
      that Stevenson took in people, and life, and birds, and scenery, his constant scribbling in
      note-books, seemed to his father a waste of time. To the son, the study of lighthouse
      engineering became an impossibility, and he finally gave it up after an interview that must
      have been an exceedingly unhappy one for them both. 

      Colvin describes this period of the  boy's life most vividly:
      "The ferment of youth was more acute and more prolonged in him than in most men of genius; and
      for several years he was torn hither and thither by fifty currents of speculation, impulse and
      desire. . . . I have tried to give some notion of the many various strains and elements which
      met in him and which were in these days pulling one against another in his half-formed being,
      at the great expense of spirit and body. Add the storms, which from time to time attacked him,
      of shivering repulsion from the climate and conditions of life in the city which he yet deeply
      and imaginatively loved. . . . the seasons of temptation most strongly besetting the ardent
      and poetic temperament to seek escape into freedom and the  ideal
      through that grotesque back door opened by the crude allurements of the city streets; the
      moods of spiritual revolt against the harsh doctrine of the creed in which his parents were
      deeply and his father even pas sionately attached." 

      The sensitive lad battled gallantly with fate. "Does it not seem surprising," I quote from
      one of his youthful letters, "that I can keep the lamp alight through all this gusty weather
      in so frail a lantern ? And yet it burns cheerily." 

      He took life, and his lessons, pain and play, changes from one school to another, lapses
      into illness and consequent travels on the continent, everything that came his way, in a
      spirit of intense appreciation and absorbed interest. 

     

      None of the experiences of his youth were wasted or forgotten. From his hot-headed quarrels
      with his father he gathered the wisdom and insight to write "Crabbed Age Sand Youth," an essay
      that has helped many a parent to understand his son. His long tramps over the Scottish heather
      formed material for the most striking chapter in "Kidnapped." He paid a visit to an uncle in
      the parish of Stow on which he afterward drew in "Hermiston" for knowledge of the Lammermuirs.
      The happy adventurous days of his youth that he spent exploring the Edinburgh castle were
      minutely remembered and turned to good account in "St. Ives." He used the scenery of Brenner
      Pass, which he never saw after 1863, for the background of  "Will
      o' the Mill." From his boyish resentment against the dogmas and narrow creed of his elders he
      evolved the broad, kindly tolerant, hopeful faith that inspired the "Prayers." 

      Through the turbulent years of his youth Stevenson was sustained and upheld by a stout
      heart "radiating pure romance." He was like the lad- die with a lantern under his coat in the
      game he described so well. "We wore them buckled to the waist upon a cricket belt, and over
      them, such was the rigour of the game, a buttoned topcoat. They smelled noisomely of blistered
      tin; they never burned aright though they always burned our fingers; their use was naught; the
      pleasure of them merely fanciful; and yet a boy with a bull's eye under his topcoat asked for
      nothing more!" 

     
      He was indeed a strange lad. The savour went out of life for him if he could "no longer see
      satyrs in the thicket, or picture a highwayman riding down the lane." In that same essay, "A
      Retrospect," he wrote: "Et ego in Arcadia vixit would be no empty boast upon
      my grave. If I desire to live long it is that I may have the more to look back upon." 

      "All through my boyhood," he explained, "I was known and pointed out for a pattern of an
      idler, and yet I was always busy on my own private end, which was to learn to write. I kept
      always two books in my pocket, one to read, one to write in. As I walked my mind was busy
      fitting what I saw with appropriate words; when I sat by the roadside, I would either read, or
      a pencil and a penny  version book would be in my hand, to note
      down the features of the scene or commemorate some halting stanzas. Thus I lived with words."
     
    

    

    

     THE MAN


     
      WITH his heart set upon literature as a profession, scribbling every spare
      moment and writing an astonishing number of essays (they fill a large volume of the "Edinburgh
      Edition"), it must have been uphill work for Stevenson to put his mind upon engineering at
      all. However, he was so successful as to receive a medal for an invention of "A New Form of
      Intermittent Light" and was commended by the Royal Scottislf Society of Arts for his paper on
      that subject. 
      When, in 1871, his father allowed him to abandon engineering, offering the law as a
      compromise, Louis fell  upon the new drudgery with such studious
      fury that he was called to the Scottish bar in July, 1875. On the 25th he received his first
      complimentary brief and the next day he sailed for France. That his attitude of mind was well
      understood by his friends is shown by a letter from Fleeming Jenkin congratulating him, not
      upon entering a new profession, but on "getting rid of the law forever." 

      By this time the young man's es- says were beginning to attract atten- tion, enough, at any
      rate, for his father to feel justified in giving him an allowance with full permission to
      follow the art he loved. From that moment to the day of his death Stev- enson devoted himself
      to literature with a passion and fervour that never failed. He had won out against all  odds and though success came to him slowly it came surely. He who
      had defended idleness so valiantly knew himself when he said, "I have a goad in the flesh
      continually pushing me to work, work, work." He was never without a pencil and a note- book,
      never so happy as when in the full tide of a new story or novel. He loved the "ring of words"
      and the game of sorting and arranging them to fit the exact meaning of his mind. He turned to
      letter-writing as a skilled cabinet-maker might fashion an elegant toy--for the fun of using
      his tools skilfully. In long hours of sickness and enforced rest from seri- ous work he
      scribbled verses to pass the time. He thought so little of these that "The Child's Garden of
      Verse" and "Underwoods" would not have  been printed had not many
      a poem been rescued from the margins of 4 magazines, the fly-leaves of books he was reading,
      and even the wastepaper basket. 

      He was very modest about his work and said of his first small success: "I begin to have
      more hope in the story line and that should improve my income." He laughed incredulously when
      a friend said to him, "I believe the day will come, Louis, when people will speak of
      'Stevenson's Works.' " He lived long enough to hear the world ringing with his fame. When the
      "Edinburgh Edition" was in course of preparation he wrote to his old friend, Charles Baxter:
      "Do you remember--how many years ago I would be afraid to hazard a guess--one night when I
      communicated to  you certain intimations of early death and
      aspirations after fame? . . . If any one at that moment could have shown me the 'Edinburgh
      Edition' I suppose I should have died. It is with gratitude and wonder that I consider 'the
      way in which I have been led.' Could a more presumptuous idea have occurred to us in those
      days when we used to search our pockets for coppers, too often in vain, and combine forces to
      produce the three-pence necessary for two glasses of beer, or wander down the Lothian Road
      without any, than that I should be strong and well at the age of forty-three in the island of
      Upolu, and that you should be at home bringing out the 'Edinburgh Edition'?" 

      At Vailima, where he lived the last four years of his life, the monthly  mail brought up the mountain trail on a pack-saddle was overflowing
      with requests for his autograph, books from young authors begging for a word of approval from
      "the Master," and many letters from the brilliant and successful writers of the day, French,
      American, and English, praising his latest work and hailing him generously as the greatest of
      them all. The Profession of letters is one that is singularly free from jealousy, as was
      shown, when an author began to make himself known, by the enthusiastic letters from
      fellow-writers calling Stevenson's attention to the new star on the horizon. 

      Stevenson fought against all odds for the wife of his choice as he had done for his
      profession. From the first moment he met, at the little village of 

     

      Grez in the forest of Fontainebleau, "the woman for whom he was to dare so much, to receive
      in return* such entire devotion, and to
      leave in prose and verse, and in his uttered words to all his intimates, a tribute such as few
      women have been privileged to receive," until their marriage in San Francisco three years
      later, he sur- mounted one obstacle after another. The last book he wrote [that was left
      unfinished by his sudden death] was dedicated "To my Wife." 
       
        "I saw the rain falling and the rain-bow drawn 
        On Lammermuir. Hearkening, I heard again
        In my precipitous city beaten bells
        Winnow the keen sea-wind. And here afar,
        Intent on my own race and place I wrote.
       


       * W. H. Low, "A Chronicle of
        Friendships."

       

       
        Take thou the writing; thine it is. For who 
        Burnished the sword, blew on the drowsy coal,
        Held still the target higher; chary of praise
        And prodigal of counsel- who but thou ? 
        So now in the end; if this the least be good,
        If any deed be done, if any fire 
        Burn in the imperfect page, the praise be thine."
       
      
     

      This is to the critic, in acknowledgment of her influence and help in his literary
      work.
     To the wife he wrote:
       
        "Trusty, dusky, vivid, true,
        With eyes of gold and bramble-dew,
        Steel true and blade straight
        The great artificer made my mate.
       


       
        Honor, anger, valor, fire, 
        A love that life could never tire,
        Death quench, or evil stir 
        The mighty master gave to her.
       

       

       
        Teacher, tender comrade, wife,
        A fellow farer tgrue through life.
        Heart whole and soul free,
        The August Father gave to me."
       
      
     
    

    

    
     THE TRAVELLER

     
      WHEN Stevenson found himself free to go where he would, he took the first
      road that offered--and it led him to France. 
       
        "Then follow you wherever lie
        The travelling mountains of the sky
        Or let the streams, in civil mode
        Direct your choice upon the road.
       



       
        For one and, all, or high or low
        Will lead you where you wish to go
        And one and all go night and day
        Over the hills and far away!"
       
      
     

      He and his friend, Sir Walter Simpson, a young fellow of his own age, took a canoeing trip
      that he described afterward in "An Inland Voyage."  He enjoyed it
      all, good fortune and ill, wet and stormy days as well as fair, and only stopped to
      commiserate a poor fellow who had to stay behind. He was "the driver of the hotel om- nibus; a
      mean enough looking little man, as well as I can remember; but with a spark of something human
      in his souL He had heard of our little journey, and came to me at once in envious sympathy.
      How he longed to travel! he told me. How he longed to be somewhere else, and see the round
      world before he went to his grave! 'Here I am,' said he; 'I drive to the station. Well. And
      then I drive back again to the hotel. And so on every day and all the week round. My God, is
      that life!' I could not say I thought it was--for him. He pressed me to tell him where I had
      been and where  I hoped to go; and as he listened I declare the
      fellow sighed. Might not this have been a brave African traveller, or gone to the Indies after
      Drake ? But it is an evil age for the gipsily inclined among men. He who can sit squarest on a
      three-legged stool, he it is who has the wealth and glory." 

      After many days of adventure they came to "La Fere of .Cursed Memory." Here they were taken
      for pedlars and refused a night's lodging, to Stevenson's fury. "For my part," he stormed,
      "when I was turned out of the Stag or the Hind, or whatever it was, I would have set the
      temple of Diana on fire if it had been handy. There was no crime complete enough to express my
      disapproval of human institutions." After wading about in  the
      dark and rain for hours they found "La Croix de Malte," where they were received. "Little did
      the Bazins know how much they served us. We were charged for candles, for food and drink, and
      for the beds we slept in. But there was nothing in the bill for the husband's pleasant talk
      nor the pretty spectacle of their married life." It is only by a letter to a friend that one
      learns of the risks he took with his health, and even that is written in a cheerful vein. "I
      have had to fight against pretty mouldy health, so that, on the whole, the essayist and
      reviewer has shown, I think, some pluck. Four days ago I was not a hundred miles from being
      miserably drowned, to the immense regret of a large circle of friends and the permanent
      impoverishment of British Essayism and  Reviewery. My boat
      culbutted me under a fallen tree in a very rapid current; and I was a good while before I got
      on to the outside of that fallen tree, rather a better while than I cared about." 

      His next journey was afoot, his companion a donkey, "a love, price sixty-five francs and a
      glass of brandy." "His love" refused to move beyond a snail's pace until a passing peasant
      taught him the art of donkey driving and gave him the magic word "proot." "The rogue pricked
      up her ears and broke into a good round pace, which she kept up without flagging and without
      exhibiting the least symptoms of distress as long as the peasant kept beside us." When his
      preceptor left and they "started to climb an interminable hill upon the  other side,'proot' seemed to have lost its virtue. I promoted like a lion. I
      promoted mellifluously like a sucking dove; but Modestine would be neither softened nor
      intimidated. She held doggedly to her pace." Finally an innkeeper made Stevenson a goad and
      all went well. The innkeeper's wife understood the object of his journey perfectly. "She
      sketched at what I should put into my book when I got home. 'Whether people harvest or not in
      such and such a place; if there were forests; studies of names; what, for example, I and the
      Master of the house say to you; and the beauty of nature and all that.' " Such is the story of
      "Travels with a Donkey" done into perfect prose. 

      A far different journey was his next one, when he travelled as "An Amateur  Emigrant to California Across the Plains." He knew France well,
      spoke the language fluently, and un- derstood the customs of the people. The United States was
      a foreign land. 
       
        "With half a heart I wander here
        As from an age gone by. 
        A brother--yet though young in years
        An elder brother, I.
       


       
        You speak another tongue than mine 
        Though both were English born--
        I towards the night of time decline
         You mount into the morn.
       

       
        Youth shall grow great and strong and free
        But age must still decay--
        Tomorrow for the States--for me
        England and yesterday!"
       
      
     

      It was not until after ten years of increasing illness, after he hadvainly sought health in
      Hyeres, Davos- Platz, Bournemouth, and the Adirondacks,  that
      Fate, suddenly relenting, sent him to the South Seas. 
       
        "By strange pathways God hath brought you Tusitala.
        In strange webs of fortune caught you.
        Led you by strange moods and measures
        To this paradise of pleasures."*
       
      
     

      It was indeed a paradise to Stevenson, a new world full of sunlight and warmth, romance,
      and strange adventure. "The first experience can never be repeated. The first love, the first
      sunrise, the first South Sea Island, are memories apart." When his yacht, the Casco, plunged its anchor into the waters of Nuka-hiva Bay, "it was a small sound, a
      great event," Stevenson wrote, "but my soul went down with these moorings * Edmund Gosse in the dedication, "In Russet and
       Silver." 
       whence no windlass may extract or diver fish it up, and I, and
      some part of my ship's company were from that hour the bond slaves of the isles of Vivien." 

      After more than a year of voyaging among the islands he moored his bark on the shore of the
      most beautiful of them all, Upolu of the Samoan group. "For here," he declared, "if more days
      are granted me they shall be passed where I have found life most pleasant and man most
      interesting!" 
    

    

    

     THE WRITER


     
      THE first of Stevenson's books to make a success was "Treasure Island." The
      idea of the story was suggested by a map which he drew for Lloyd Osbourne, his stepson, "a
      schoolboy home from the holidays and much in need of something craggy to break his mind upon."
      "He had no thought of literature; it was the art of Raphael that received his fleeting
      suffrages; . . . I would sometimes unbend a little, join the artist (so to speak) at the
      easel, and pass the afternoon with him in a generous emulation, making coloured drawings. On
      one of these occasions,  I made the map of an island; it was
      elaborately and (I thought) beautifully coloured; the shape of it took my fancy beyond
      expression; it contained harbours that pleased me like sonnets; and, with the unconsciousness
      of the predestined, I ticketed my performance 'Treasure Island."' He was soon at work writing
      out a list of chapters. "It was to be a story for boys; no need for psychology or fine
      writing; and I had a boy at hand to be a touchstone. . . . I had counted on one boy, I found I
      had two in my audience. My father caught fire at once with all the romance and childishness of
      his original nature. . . . When the time came for Billy Bones's chest to be ransacked, he must
      have passed the better part of a day preparing, on the back of a legal envelope,  an inventory of its contents, which I exactly followed; and the
      name of 'Flint's old ship'--the Walrus--was given at his particular
      request." 

      "Treasure Island" was dedicated to 
       
         LLOYD OSBOURNE,
        An American Gentleman,
        In accordance with whose classic taste
        The following narrative has been designed.
         It is now in return for numerous delightful hours 
        And with the kindest wishes dedicated
        By his affectionate friend,
        The Author.
       
      
     


      Prince Otto surrounded by his charming court, in the midst of ro- mance, mystery, and
      intrigue, was the first modern novel laid in an imaginary kingdom; it has been so widely
      imitated, that one loses the effect of originality which so startled  its first readers. Stevenson said of this book, in a rather mocking humour: "It is
      queer and a little, little bit free; and some of the parties are immoral, and the whole thing
      is not a romance, nor yet a comedy; nor yet a romantic comedy; but a kind of preparation of
      some of the element of all three in a glass jar." But, all the same, in another letter he
      wrote: "A brave story, I swear, and a brave play, too, if we can find the trick to make the
      end." And his heart warms to his hero, "my poor, clever, featherheaded Prince whom I love
      already." He worked hard over the book, describing it as "a strange example of the difficulty
      of being ideal in an age of realism." 

      There is a beautiful passage in "Prince Otto" that is often quoted.  The Princess had been wandering in the woods all night. "At last she began to be
      aware of a wonderful revolution, compared to which the fire of Mitt Walden Palace was but the
      crack and flash of a percussioncap. The countenance with which the pines regarded her began
      insensibly to change; the grass, too, short as it was, and the whole winding staircase of the
      brook's course, began to wear a solemn freshness of appearance. And this slow transfiguration
      reached her heart, and played upon it, and transpierced it with a serious thrill. She looked
      all about; the whole face of nature looked back, brimful of meaning, finger on lip, leaking
      its glad secret. She looked up. Heaven was almost emptied of stars. Such as still lingered
      shone with a changed  and waning brightness, and began to faint
      in their stations. 

      "And the colour of the sky itself was the most wonderful; for the rich blue of the night
      had now melted and softened and brightened; and there had succeeded in its place a hue that
      has no name, and that is never seen but as the herald of the morning.' O,' she cried, joy
      catching at her voice; 'O it is the dawn!' 

      " Stevenson was in Saranac when the idea came to him for the story of "The Master of
      Ballantrae." "It was winter, the night was very dark; the air extraordinarily clear and cold,
      and sweet with the purity of forests." He had been reading the "Phantom Ship." "'Come,' said I
      to my engine; 'let us make a tale, a story of many years and countries, of the sea and the  land, savagery and civilisation.'" He tells us that "On such a fine
      frosty night, with no wind and the thermometer below zero, the brain works with much vivacity;
      and the next moment I had seen the circumstance transplanted from India and the tropics to the
      Adirondack wilderness and the stringent cold of the Canadian border." 

      In the dedication to Sir Percy and Lady Shelley he tells the strange story of its writing:
      "Here is a tale which extends over many years and travels into many countries. By a peculiar
      fitness of circumstance the writer began, continued it, and concluded it among distant and
      divers scenes. Above all, he was much upon the sea. The character and fortune of the fraternal
      enemies, the hall and shrubbery  of Durrisdeer, the problem of
      MacKellars homespun and how to shape it for superior flights; these were his company on deck
      in many star reflecting harbours, ran often in his mind at sea to the tune of slatting canvas,
      and were dismissed (something of the suddenest) on the approach of squalls. It is my hope that
      these surroundings of its manufacture may to some degree find favour for my story with
      sea-farers and sea-lovers like yourselves. 

      "And at least here is a dedication from a great way off; written by the loud shores of a
      subtropical island near upon ten thousand miles from Boscombe Chine and Manor; scenes which
      rise before me as I write along with the faces and voices of my friends." 

     

      The list of his complete writings would be a long one, including as they do, the wide range
      of essays, fables, critical reviews, plays, travels, romances, memoirs, verses, and novels. 

      The book that made the greatest sensation, that sold forty thousand copies in England and
      over a quarter of a million in America, is "The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde." It
      is an allegory written in the form of a story that has been played in theatres and preached in
      churches. A slim book in size but great in power, that leaves the reader thrilled with horror,
      not only at the monster Hyde but at the possibilities of evil in one's own heart. 

    

    

    

     THE TEACHER 


     
      STEVENSON was one of the first to teach the optimistic doctrine of life.
      "The disease of pessimism," he declared, "springs never from real troubles, which it braces a
      man to bear, which it delights men to bear well. Nor does it readily spring at all in minds
      that have conceived of life as a field of ordered duties not as a chase in which to hunt for
      gratifications." 

      He upheld "gentleness and cheerfulness, these come before all morality; they are the
      perfect duties. If your morals make you dreary depend upon it they are wrong. I do not say
      'give them up, for they may be all you  have; but conceal them
      like a vice, lest they should soil the lives of better and simpler people." 

      Noble disappointment, noble self-denial are not to be admired, not soon to be pardoned if
      they bring bitterness." " Nature is a good guide through life, and the love of simple
      pleasures next, if not superior to, virture." 

      "There is no duty we so much underrate as the duty of being happy. By being happy we sow
      anonymous benefits upon the world, which remain unknown even to ourselves, or when they are
      disclosed, surprise no body so much as the benefactor." "A happy man or woman is a better
      thing to find than a five-pound note. He or she is a radiating focus of goodwill; and their
      entrance into a room  is as though another candle had been
      lighted." These are inspiring words, and they go far and sink deep coming from a man like
      Stevenson whose pulpit was a sick-bed; who had linked arms with Pain and smiled in the face of
      Death. He encouraged you "by all means to finish your folio; even if the doctor does not give
      you a year; even if he hesitates about a month, make a brave push and see what can be
      accomplished in a week. It is not only in finished undertakings that we ought to honour useful
      labour. A spirit goes out of the man who means execution which outlives the most untimely
      ending. All who have meant good work with their whole hearts have done good work although they
      may die before they have time to sign it. Every heart that has beat strong  and cheerfully has left a hopeful impulse behind it in the world
      and bettered the traditions of mankind." "To be honest, to be kind, to earn a little and spend
      a little less, to make upon the whole a family happier for his presence, to renounce, when
      that shall be necessary and not to be embittered, to keep a few friends, but these without
      capitulation--above all, on the same grim conditions, to keep friends with himself--here is a
      task for all that a man has of fortitude and delicacy." "Etre et pas avoir
      to be not to possess--that is the problem of life. To be wealth a rich nature is the first
      requisite, and money but the second. To be of a quick and healthy blood, to share in all
      honourable curiosities, to be rich in admiration and free from envy, to  rejoice greatly in the good of others, to live with such generosity of heart that
      your love is still a dear possession in absence or unkindness--these are the gifts of fortune
      which money cannot buy and without which money can buy nothing." 


      He tells us that "a man is not to expect happiness, only to profit by it gladly when it
      shall arise; he is on duty here; he knows not how or why, and does not need to know; he knows
      not for what hire, and must not ask. Somehow or other, though he does not know what goodness
      is, he must try to be good; somehow or other, though we cannot tell what will do it, he must
      try to give happiness to others." 

      "Mankind is not only the whole in general, but every one in particular.  Every man or woman is one of mankind's dear possessions; to his or
      her just brain, and kind heart, and active hands, mankind intrusts some of its hopes for the
      future; he or she is a possible well-spring of good acts and source of blessings to the race." 

      He does not preach only to the wise or the clever or the great; he declares that "the man
      who has his heart on his sleeve, and a good whirling weathercock of a brain, who reckons his
      life as a thing to be dashingly used and cheerfully hazarded, makes a very different
      acquaintance of the world, keeps all his pulses going true and fast, and gathers impetus as he
      runs, until, if he be running towards anything better than wildfire, he may shoot up and
      become a constellation in the end." And then "when the  time
      comes that he should go there need be few illusions left about himself. Here lies one who
      meant well, tried a little, failed much;--surely that may be his epitaph, of which he need not
      be ashamed, nor will he complain at the summons which calls a defeated soldier from the field;
      defeated, ay, if he were Paul or Marcus Aurelius!--but, if there is still one inch of fight in
      his old spirit, undishonoured. The faith which sustained him in his lifelong blindness and
      lifelong disappointment will scarce even be required in this last formality of laying down his
      arms. Give him a march with his old bones; there, out of the glorious sun coloured earth, out
      of the day and dust and the ecstacy--there goes another Faithful Failure!" 
      
       
        "If I have faltered more or less 
        In my great task of happiness;
        If I have moved among my race
        And shown no glorious morning face;
        If beams from happy human eyes 
        Have moved me not; if morning skies,
        Books and my food, and summer rain
        Knocked on my sullen heart in vain;-
        Lord, Thy most pointed pleasure take
        And stab my spirit broad awake;
        Or, Lord, if too obdurate I,
        Choose Thou, before that spirit die,
        A piercing pain, a killing sin,
        And to my dead heart run them in!"
       
      
     

    
    

    

     THE FRIEND

     
      STEVENSON had the gift of making friends, for "there was that about him,"
      says Graham Balfour, "that he was the only man I have ever known who possessed charm in high
      degree, whose character did not suffer from the possession. The gift comes naturally to women,
      and they are at their best in its exercise. But a man requires to be of a very sound fibre
      before he can be entirely himself and keep his heart single, if he carries about with him a
      talisman to obtain from all men and all women the object of his heart's desire. Both gifts
      Stevenson possessed, not only the magic but also  the strength of
      character to which it was safely intrusted." 

      That he was utterly unconscious of possessing any such attribute is shown by a fragment
      written in his youth, describing the three wishes of his heart: "First, good health; secondly,
      a small competence; thirdly, O du Lieber Gottfriends!" They came in answer
      to that call by the thousands, many of them his readers who had never known the man Stevenson.
      Even his intimate and personal friends were many, from all walks in life, rich and poor,
      philosopher and fisherman, white and brown. It is not surprising that he should have had such
      friends as Sidney Colvin, professor of arts; Edmund Gosse, poet; Will H. Low, painter, and
      nearly all the prominent writers of his day, but 

     

     
      
       IN THE LIBRARY AT VAILIMA, DICTATING TO MRS. STRONG
      
     

     
     

      every one who ever came in contact with him, man or woman, that person was his friend for
      life, even imitating his mannerisms and tricks of speech--his landladies, bell-boys, hotel
      porters, innkeepers. 
      It was at Monterey that he first met Simoneau. In "the old Pacific capital," he said, "of
      all my private collection of remembered inns and restaurants--and I believe it, others things
      being equal, to be unrivalled--one particular house of entertainment stands forth alone. I am
      grateful, in--deed, to many a swinging sideboard, to many a dusty wine-bush; but not with the
      same kind of gratitude. Some were beautifully situated, some had an admirable table, some were
      the gathering places of excellent companions; but take them for all in all, not one  can be compared with Simoneau's at Monterey." 

      Stevenson was taken ill there and the Frenchman visited and befriended him, "a most
      pleasant old boy with whom I discuss the universe and play chess daily." In after years, as
      each of his books came out, a copy with an inscription was sent to Simoneau till the old man
      had a complete set of first editions, besides many letters and photographs. His restaurant had
      failed, and he supported himself by selling "tamales" on the street, and though he was offered
      a very handsome sum of money for his Stevenson books and letters he refused to part with them.
      Mrs. Stevenson, in grateful recognition of the old man's loyalty, was able to make his
      declining years comfortable, hastened to his  bedside when he
      died, and erected a handsome tombstone to his memory. 
      Every doctor who ever attended Stevenson became his friend; to his admiration of the
      medical practitioner and his personal gratitude we owe the beautiful dedication to
      "Underwoods" that begins:  "There are men and classes of men that stand
       above the common herd; the soldier, the sailor, and the shepherd not unfrequently; the artist
       rarely; rarelier still, the clergyman;i the physician almost as a rule.(He is the flower
       (such as it is) of our civilisation. . . . Generosity he has, such as is possible to those
       who practice an art, never to those who drive a trade; discretion, tested by a hundred
       secrets; tact, tried in a thousand embarrassments; and, what are more important  Herculean cheerfulness and courage. So it is that he brings air
       and cheer into the sick-room, and often enough, though not so often as he wishes, brings
       healing."
      Tembinok, the last King of the Gilbert Islands, was a friend for whom Stevenson had a
      profound admiration. He describes their leave-taking in his South Sea book: "As the time came
      for our departure Tembinok became greatly changed; a softer, more melancholy, and, in
      particular, a more confidential man appeared in his stead. To my wife he contrived laboriously
      to explain that though he knew he must lose his father in the course of nature, he had not
      minded nor realised it till the moment came; and now that he was to lose us, he repeated the
      experience. . .. 'I very  sorry you go,' he said at last. 'Miss
      Stlevens he good man, woman he good man, boy he good man; all good man. Woman he smart all
      same man. My woman,' glancing toward his wives,'he good woman no very smart. I think Miss
      Stlevens he big chiep all the same cap'n man-o'-war. I think Miss Stlevens he rich man all
      same me. All go schoona. I very sorry. My patha he go, my uncle he go, my cutcheons he go,
      Miss Stlevens he go: all go. You no see King cry before. King all the same man; feel bad, he
      cry. I very sorry.' " 
      On one of the South Sea voyages Stevenson and his party were de- tained at a native village
      two months. The Chief, Ori a' Ori, sent a farewell letter when they left that "as for me,"
      Stevenson said, "I would rather have  received it than written
      'Redgauntlet' or the 'Sixth Æneid.' " This is the translation: 
        "I make you to know my great affection. At the hour when you left us, I was filled with
        tears; my wife, Rui Telime, also, and all of my household. When you embarked I felt a great
        sorrow. It is for this that I went upon the road, and you looked from that ship, and I
        looked at you on the ship with great grief until you had raised the anchor and hoisted the
        sails. When the ship started I ran along the beach to see you still; and when you were on
        the open sea I cried out to you, 'Farewell, Louis,' and when I was coming back to my house I
        seemed to hear your voice crying, 'Rui, farewell.' Afterward I watched  the ship as long as I could until the night fell, and when it was dark I said to
        myself, 'If I had wings I should fly to the ship.' I will not forget you in my memory. Here
        is the thought. I desire to meet you again. It is my dear Teriitera (Stevenson) makes the
        only riches I desire in this world. It is your eyes I desire to see again. It must be that
        your body and my body shall eat together at one table; there is what would make my heart
        content. But now we are separated. May God be with you all. May His word and His mercy go
        with you, so that you may be well and we also, according to the words of Paul. 
       "ORI A' ORI."
      
     

      I have not the space to tell the story of the Princess Moe of Tahiti, of  Tati Salmon with whom Stevenson made brothers in the island
      fashion, of the beautiful Princess Kaiulani that he knew "in the April of her age and at
      Waikiki within easy walk of Kaiulani's banyan," of the French fisherman of Monterey whom he
      met at Marseilles after many years and entertained at his hotel, of Mother Mary Anne of
      saintly memory, of the blind white leper at Molokai, of the Captains and Supercargoes of the
      many ships on which he sailed, of mad, handsome, romantic "Tin Jack," original of "Tommy
      Haddon" in "The Wrecker"; of the Mis- sionaries, Protestant, Catholic, Mormon, and Wesleyan,
      for these are a few only of the many friends of him who said, "If we find but one to whom we
      can speak out of our heart  freely, with whom we can walk in love
      and simplicity without dissimulation, we have no ground of quarrel with the world or God."
     
    

    

     

     THE POET
     
      STEVENSON was not only able to express his thoughts in beautiful language,
      he was born with a poet's soul, and nature spoke to him as to an intimate. Of a pleasant
      French landscape he wrote: "From time to time a warm wind rustled down the valley and set all
      the chestnuts dangling their branches of foliage and fruit; the ear was filled with rustling
      music and the shadows danced in tune." 

      A passing phase of beatitude brought forth this charming explanation: "some thoughts, which
      sure would be the most beautiful, vanish before we can rightly scan their  faces; as though a God travelling by our green highways should but ope the door,
      give one smiling look into the house, and go again forever. Was it Apollo, Mercury, or Love
      with folded wings? Who shall say? But we go the lighter about our business and feel peace and
      pleasure in our heart." 

      He found exquisite beauty in 
       
        "Every fairy wheel and thread 
        Of cobweb dew--bediamonded,"
       
       and frosts that 
       
         "enchant the pool
        And make the cart-ruts beautiful." 
       
      
     

      To him the world was full of romance. It was his birthright 
       
        "to hear
        The great bell beating far and near--

        

        The odd unknown, enchanted gong
        That on the road hales men along.
        That from the mountain call afar,
        That lures the vessel from a star 
        And with a still aerial sound 
        Makes all the earth enchanted ground." 
       
      
     

      The little verses from "A Child's Garden" brighten many of the school books in England and
      America with their pleasant lessons of happiness in simple things: 
       
        "How do you like to go up in a swing 
        Up in the air so blue ? 
        Oh I do think it the pleasantest thing 
        Ever a child can do!" 
       
       and such gentle admonitions as-- 
       
        "A child should always say what's true
        And speak when he is spoken to,
        And behave mannerly at table;
        At least as far as he is able."
       
      
     

      For the comfort of sick children  there was never anything
      more brave and beautiful than 
       
        "The Land of Counterpane." 
       
       And all of us, old and young, are better for the motto that hangs in many a nursery,
      sewing-room, office, and workshop: 
       
        "The World is so full of a number of things
         I am sure we should all be as happy as kings."
       
      
     



      The "Ballads," that include many of the legends of Tahiti done into verse, was dedicated to
      the Chief Ori a' Ori: 
       
        "Ori my brother in the island mode,
        In every tongue and meaning much my friend, 
        This story of your country and your clan,
        In your loved house, your too much honoured guest, 

        

        I made in English. Take it, being done;
        And let me sign it with the name you gave, Teritera."
       
      
     

      In "Underwoods" many of his best and most serious poems are found both in Scotch and
      English; but in " Songs of Travel" Stevenson touches a gayer, lighter note that breathes of
      returning health and the salt sea breezes. 
       
        "I will make you brooches and toys for your delight 
        Of bird-song at morning and star-shine at night.
        I will make a palace, fit for you and me, 
        Of green, days in forests and blue days at sea.
        I will make my kitchen, and you shall keep your room 
        Where white flows the river and bright blows the broom,
        And you shall wash your linen and keep your body white

        

        In rainfall at morning and dew-fall at night. 
        And this shall be for music when no one else is near
        The fine song for singing, the rare song to hear:
        That only I remember, that only you admire 
        Of the broad road that stretches and the road-side fire." 
       
      
     


      Many of the verses in "The Child's Garden" and "Songs of Travel" have been set to music: 
       
        "Bright is the ring of words 
        When the right man rings them. 
        Fair the fall of songs 
        When the singer sings them.
       

       
        Still they are carolled and said-- 
        On wings they are carried--
        After the singer is dead
        And the maker buried.
       

       
        Low as the singer lies 
        In the field of heather, 

        

        Songs of his fashion bring
        The swains together. 
       

       
        And when the west is red
        With the sunset embers,
        The lover lingers and sings
        And the maid remembers."
       
      
     
    

    
    
     THE CHIEF

     
      AFTER more than ten years of the sick-room, his "horizon four walls," it is
      not strange that Stevenson should have loved Samoa, where he found comparative health and was
      able to live out-of-doors. His letters to his friends were enthusiastic. "I wouldn't change my
      present installation for any post, dignity, honour, or advantage conceivable to me. It fills
      the bill. I have the loveliest time." "This is a hard and interesting and beautiful life we
      lead now." "Our fine days are certainly fine like Heaven; such a blue of the sea, such green
      of the trees, and such crimson of the hibiscus flowers you  never
      saw; and the air as mild and gentle as a baby's breath--and yet not hot." "The sea, the
      islands, the islanders, the island life and climate make and keep me truly happier." To his
      old friend Colvin he wrote: "After breakfast I rode home. Conceive such an outing, remember
      the pallid brute that lived in Skerryvore like a weevil in a biscuit, and receive the
      intelligence that I was rather the better for my journey. Twenty miles ride, sixteen fences
      taken, ten of the miles in a drenching rain, seven of them fasting and in the morning chill,
      and six stricken hours' political discussion by an interpreter; to say nothing of sleeping in
      a native house at which many of our litterati would have looked askance in itself." 

      In a speech to an assemblage of  Samoan chiefs Stevenson said:
      "I love Samoa and her people. I love the land. I have chosen it to be my home while I live and
      my grave after I am dead, and I love the people and have chosen them to be my people to live
      and die with." 

      He bought a tract of land, built a large house which he furnished from his old home in
      Bournemouth and his father's place in Edinburgh, gathered his family about him, and lived like
      a country gentleman with many horses, a dairy, vegetable gardens, acres of pineapples, bananas
      and cacao, the grounds laid out with ten- nis courts and beautified by tropical trees and
      flowers. One of his prayers breathes the atmosphere of Vailima. "We thank Thee for this place
      in which we dwell; for the love that  unites us; for the peace
      accorded us this day; for the hope with which we expect the morrow; for the health, the work,
      the food, and bright skies that make our lives delightful; for our friends in all parts of the
      earth and our friendly helpers in this foreign isle. Give us courage and gaiety and the quiet
      mind. Spare to us our friends, soften to us our enemies. Bless us, if it may be, in all our
      innocent endeavours. If it may not, give us the strength to encounter that which is to come,
      that we be brave in peril, constant in tribulation, temperate in wrath, and in all changes of
      fortune, and down to the gates of death, loyal and loving, one to another." 


      He described the house in one of his letters as "three miles from town,  in the midst of great silent forests. There is a burn close by, and
      when we are not talking you can hear the burn, and the birds, and the sea breaking on the
      coast three miles away and six hundred feet below us." 

      Stevenson worked in the mornings, usually by dictation, which made his correspondence and
      novels much less trying to his strength. He was deeply interested in the government of the
      country and outlined a policy that has since been adopted with success by the Germans in their
      occupation of Upolu and Savaii. He rode a good deal on his brown horse, Jack, and was one of
      the "hounds" in a cross-country paper chase; he paid visits to the other islands, studied the
      Samoan language, read until late nearly every night, and often attended  the entertainments given by the men-of-war or townspeople at the Apia Public Hall,
      where he joined in the dance which he described as "a most fearful and wonderful quadrille; I
      don't know where the devil they fished it from, but it is rackety and prancing and
      embraciatory beyond words; perhaps it is best defined in Haggard's expression as a gambado." 

      Stevenson had been shut in from the world for so many weary years that he loved to keep
      open house; Vailima was the scene of numerous entertainments, balls, dinners, tennis parties
      on the lawn, and no holiday, English, American, or Samoan, was allowed to pass without an
      appropriate celebration. 

      At Christmas time the house would  be filled with guests for
      several days, dancing, playing charades and games, and there was always an old-fashioned
      Christmas tree loaded with gifts. The first cotillon ever seen in Samoa was held at Vailima in
      honour of Washington's birthday. There was a dinner to all the English officers and officials
      in town on the occasion of Queen Victoria's jubilee. The thirteenth of November, the
      anniversary of Stevenson's birth, was celebrated by a grand feast given in the native fashion,
      the chiefs and their families arriving early in the day with presents of turtles, kava root,
      fans, model canoes, rings, live pigs carried on poles, and rolls of tapa and fine mats. 

      The midshipmen and officers of the men-of-war in port, the various officials  of England, Germany and the United States, the missionaries and
      their wives, the Samoan chiefs with their families and retainers, passing tourists, even the
      sailors on their liberty day ashore, all found a welcome at Vailima. 

      He who said "it is better to lose life like a spendthrift than to waste it like a miser. It
      is better to live and be done with it than die daily in 'the sick-room" was spared the horror
      of a lingering illness. 

      In the best health he had ever enjoyed; in the midst of his work on "Weir of Hermiston,"
      that he believed to be his masterpiece, with those he loved most around him, his plans laid
      for weeks ahead, in the fulness of his powers, in the forty-fourth year of his age, the end
      came  suddenly and painlessly by a stroke of apoplexy. 

      He died at ten minutes past eight on Monday evening the third of December, 1894. 

      He lay as though asleep, on a narrow couch in the middle of the great hall. The Union Jack
      that flew above Vailima was lowered and draped over the body. All through the night, as the
      sad news spread about the island, parties of Samoans came to pay their last respects to the
      truest friend they had ever known. He had chosen Mount Vaia to be his last resting-place; the
      pathway up the steep hillside through the jungle was cut in the night by forty loyal Samoans,
      and on the morning of the fourth he was laid to rest. 

      "Nothing more picturesque can be  imagined* than the narrow ledge that forms the summit of Mount
      Vaia, a place no wider than a room and flat as a table. On either side the land descends
      precipitately; in front lie the vast ocean and the surf-swept reefs; to the right and left
      green mountains rise, densely covered with the primeval forest." On this spot the tomb was
      built that took several months in the making; it is of solid blocks of cement welded together
      in a noble design with two large bronze tablets let in on either side. One bears the
      inscription in Samoan, "The resting place of Tusitala," followed by the quotation (in the same
      language), "Thy country shall be my country and thy God my God." On the other 
       *Lloyd Osbourne in "A Letter to Mr. Stevenson's
       Friends." 
       side are the name and dates and the requiem: 
       
         "Under the wide and starry sky
        Dig the grave and let me lie.
        Glad did I live and gladly die,
        And I laid me down with a will.
        This be the verse you grave for me:
        'Here he lies where he longed to be.
        Home is the sailor home from the sea 
        And the hunter home from the hill.'"
       
      
     



    
   
  

 
